good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input,
 Again, virtual audience, please insert your name and address in the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time. The council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor.
 Virtual audience, please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you so much. At this time, we will have the invocation by Pastor Charles King of Greater St. Matthew Church. Welcome. Thank you so much. This time we ask that you would bow your heads.
 gracious Heavenly Father we thank you once again for allowing us to be here and oh God we ask that you would come into this room tonight bless each and every one of the council people bless them to put their hearts and their minds together for the betterment of this city and this community and oh God we pray for our troops
 foreign and domestic, wherever they are, that you would shield them and protect them and that you would keep them. Father, we pray for our city. Oh God, that you would bless those that are watching over us and protecting us
 Shield them from any hurt, from any harm, and from any danger. And Father, we thank you tonight that we can come together and that we can reason together and come up with good solutions that will make things better. We thank you. We honor you. We praise you for every way that you make.
 for every door that you open. We thank you, O God, for our community. And we ask, O God, that you bless this community. Lord, that you would knit us together in love, knit us together in unity, and help us do the right thing for people everywhere. And Father, tonight, we give you the praise. We give you all the glory, and we give you all the honor for what you're going to do.
 In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Congratulations, please. Brother Jones, will you call the roll, please? Member Davis? Present. Council Member Lee? Present. Council Member Warner? Present. Council Member Wax? He's right here. Oh, okay. I heard him. Okay, Council Member White?
 Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President Nostowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Signed present. Thank you. There are no reports from the subcommittee on minutes. If you are here for Mr. Toy Vila to honor him, that will be postponed until the March 13th meeting. We will honor him for his retirement at that time. There are no reports from
 from the city. So with that, I will turn it over. I would like to entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Good evening. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed is an ordinance,
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from the staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Clerk Jones, could you please give a second reading to Bill 02-23?
 0-2-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 407, 409, and 411 Marion Street, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? I came before this zoning and annexation committee this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation.
 Is the petitioner present? I see that she is. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, Zone Administrator for the City of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building. And if you could share the Teams window with the... I'll go ahead and get started while they're working on the technology. We have it up on ours. Okay. Okay.
 The property in question is 407, 409, and 411 Marion Street. There are three properties that currently face Marion. They are part of a larger development property that's also, the owner also owns the property that's on the corner of Navarre and William. It does not include the home that is on the hard corner of this property, but it's the ones highlighted here on the screen.
 They're currently zoned U3 Urban Neighborhood 3 in NC Neighborhood Center District. The petitioner is part of a larger comprehensive look at the area, is looking to do some kind of cleanup or a little bit of reorganization of those zoning districts for a development that includes a laundromat, a retail center, and some single-family residential.
 The site's currently vacant. It was the former Palmer Funeral Home, which has been demolished. So it was a Palmer Funeral Home, a single family home, which may have been used for multifamily at that point in time, and two parking lots, which you can see here in the screen. All of that has been leveled and it's ready for new development once we look at some of the zoning issues.
 So this is the overall site plan, which the petitioner will talk about here shortly. But what we're really looking at is these two smaller areas. The area that's labeled A that's shown here in purple is currently zoned U3.
 There would be a conflict in using this area for things such as the dumpster enclosure or the drive into the development. And the other area, Area B here, they're seeking to go from NC to U3 so they can have a continuous development along Marion for residential development.
 Essentially, this is the layout. On the left is the current configuration of the zoning, which follows the lot lines that are there. On the right is the proposed configuration of the zoning, which would allow the northern portion of these lots to be joined with the parcel to the north for cohesive development, and the southern portion to be subdivided to be used for residential. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation, and I'd be happy to answer any questions. The petitioner is here as well.
 Petitioner, I ask that you would give your name and address. Thank you. Mike Danch from Danch, Hunter & Associates, 1643 Commerce Drive here in South Bend, representing the petitioner. As Angela had mentioned, what we're asking to do is to take just two portions of the property that you see that are bounded by Navarre, Williams, and Marion Street and rezone those. This is a cleanup for some of the zoning that has existed since 2020 when the new ordinance went into effect.
 As Angela had mentioned, the back portion of the property that we would like to use for the Burton's laundromat and that retail center on the corner is presently zoned U3. We'd like to take that to get it to the NC district so that we have a consistent zoning for the project.
 What we're also trying to do is bring new housing into the city of South Bend. That's the yellow that you see along William Street. This proposal would allow us to have five residential lots for five new homes along Marion Street. Again, it's a clean up on that portion. We're actually down zoning from NC, the neighborhood center district, down to the U3 to allow for that residential.
 under the guidelines for NC, just so the council is aware, that's the strictest zoning classification and has the highest architectural standards for buildings that are built in the city of South Bend. As we had mentioned earlier this afternoon, the site that is for the Burton's Laundry and the retail center, we could build that today, but this is just part of a cleanup that we would like to do so that we have a consistent zoning
 for our lots assuming that we receive approval from Council this evening our next step would be to go ahead and submit a subdivision plat that we've given to the Community Investment Department to create legal lots of records so one lot would contain the retail and the Burton's Laundry and the other would be the five lots for the residential on Marion Street
 We are going to have access from William Street and Navarre Street for the retail center. What we are also doing is having an ingress and egress easement to be allowed to have just a single driveway so we don't have several driveways on Marion Street that would access the back of those residential homes.
 that would allow the residents to come in off of William Street and directly into the garages for those new houses. This will obviously be hooked up to water and sewer. Any of the drainage will be connected to the city water sewer, I'm sorry, and the drainage will be held on site
 for what we're doing. We did have conversations with some of the neighbors who were in the historic district. Mr. Neufer is in discussions with them to tweak some of the design aspects of the building that he is using for the Burns laundromat. And as I had mentioned this afternoon, there is no dry cleaning establishment here. This is just a laundromat and a retail center. And if you have any questions for me, I'd be glad to answer them.
 Council members, do you have any questions? Councilwoman Lower Hammond? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Danch. I'm just noticing, were those original lots, were those oversized lots? Because I see that they are somewhat being truncated slightly.
 the uh for the lots that are on marion street yes just so that you know this property had been subdivided and and i use that term loosely there was basically parcels that were sold off and they were smaller than what we usually see for the city of south bend what mr neuffer has been able to do with this development is pick up all those properties and we're going to re-subdivide them into larger parcels for those single-family homes
 You can also see the property that's on the hard corner. The new lot line, the zoning line lines up with that parcel line. And if it wasn't for the little kind of flag lot that comes up right here, it would also align with the property to the west as well. So it's well within our standard size for a city. Okay. Thank you. Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan.
 Thank you for your presentation. I was just wondering what the timeline is for breaking ground. Assuming that we would receive council approval, the subdivision would be hopefully approved next month with the plan commission. And they would like to be under construction probably by June or July. Great. They just need to have a final site plan approved through the city engineering department and community investment in the building department. Thank you. Anybody else?
 Anyone else? If not, at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 20-23? Christopher Huff, 1831 College Street, South Bend. It's nice to see once in a while something torn down in this city and then almost immediately rebuilt.
 Unfortunately, as all of you know, there are thousands of lots out there that have not been rebuilt for the last 60 or 70 years. So this is a step in the right direction. And I would like to see about a thousand more projects similar to this, not just a rezoning, but actually infill. Because, as you know, the city administration likes to talk about sustainability and densification, where the city is actually de-densifying infrastructure.
 it continues to decrease in terms of population per square mile so this is a great project i'd like to see it built i watched almost every single day when they tore down the old uh palmer funeral home and crematorium thank you thank you is there anyone else that would like to speak in favor uh clerk john is there anyone online there's no one on the line expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill is there anyone that would like to speak in opposition
 There's no one online that is expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 0-23 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? Vice President Naskowski. Thank you, Chair.
 I would just like to thank Mr. Newfer for coming before the council and making the substantial investment to the community, bringing needed services as well as housing. So I just wanted to thank you for that investment. Yes. Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, Chair. I, too, just want to thank Mr. Newfer. Not every developer is willing to work with neighbors, especially when you don't have to.
 And the design. So thank you very much for being willing to work with the neighborhood to get to the right design aspect. Anyone else? All fine.
 Council. Okay. All right. Well, I'll say it. You know, when, as the Martins Plaza has gone down, Mr. Newford has stayed and remained in the plaza and we were getting a little worried and we're so grateful in the first district that he found another place that he can be able to build and continue to give back to the community like he has all over the city. And so we're excited about not only a...
 a laundromat, but also some kind of retail space and five houses. And right in that little area is really becoming a great hub for redevelopment. And that's what we wanted to see in the first district. So thank you for your investment in our city and-
 At this point, I will now entertain a motion. Make a motion to send it forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor, say aye. I do that. Take a roll call. All right. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis.
 Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Wax. Aye. Council member White. Aye. Council member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Aye. Vice president Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Aye.
 Bill number 02-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee to behold and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Amen. All right. I said amen. I think I'm at church. All in favor? Aye. Motion carried. Those in the polls? Motion carried. The full council is now back in session.
 This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 02-23 a third reading?
 0-2-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 407, 409, and 411 Marion Street, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 02-23?
 Yes, 02-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 02-23. Second. Then move and second it. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Okay. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Misgavsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 0-2-23 has been adopted.
 Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendations are given.
 During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name, address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you give bill resolution 2305 a reading?
 2305, a resolution of the... Oh, it says a substitute. Thank you so much. And that is in my notes. I would like to entertain a motion to accept the substitute for resolution 2305. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Now... I believe...
 look jones did we get a copy of the substitute well this is a substitute because we added more names so that's what they're doing yes that was the only change thank you so much clerk jones will you give resolution 2305 a reading please 2305 a resolution of the common council of the city of south bend indiana denouncing and condemning anti-semitism and hate in every form thank you their presenter please state your name and address for the brick
 Thank you. Excuse me. Yes. We need a committee report. Yes. Their committee report from the residential neighborhoods. Send the substitute bill 23-05 to the council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Now, Ms. Hammond. Thank you. Lori Hammond, 2658 Tomahawk Trail, South Bend, Indiana.
 I want to thank the council for being willing to endorse this resolution. The value of bringing such a resolution forward is twofold. First, it is an attempt to bring attention to this very important issue and to start a conversation toward prevention. Secondly, to allow law enforcement to be alerted to possible harms toward this community.
 The Jewish community is feeling very vulnerable and rightfully so. We must call on all elected officials to stop normalizing this kind of hate that we know animates violence. People are animated by grievances to try to amplify ways to exploit those grievances to make sure that they are heard.
 This creates fear and anxiety in our local communities, and we must find ways to counter extremism. I'd like to read through the resolution, and then there are a couple of co-presenters.
 Whereas anti-Semitism, including harassment on the basis of actual or perceived Jewish origin, ancestry, ethnicity, identity, affirmation, or faith, remains a persistent, pervasive, and disturbing problem in contemporary American society. And whereas anti-Semitism is a challenge to the basic principles of tolerance,
 pluralism and democracy, and the shared values that bind Americans and many allies together. And whereas the Anti-Defamation League in 2021 audit of anti-Semitic incidences in the United States recorded 2,717 acts of assault, vandalism, and harassment in 2021 alone,
 an average of more than seven incidences per day, a 34% increase from 2020 and the highest year of incidences on record since the ADL began tracking anti-Semitic incidences in 1979. And whereas, according to the American Jewish Commission,
 Committees 2021 State of Anti-Semitism in America Report. One in four American Jews has been the target of anti-Semitism over the past 12 months, including verbal or physical attacks, harassment online or on social media.
 And whereas discrimination on the basis of religion, race, and ethnicity is unlawful in some circumstances under the South Bend's human rights law, as well as under state and federal law. And whereas the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's
 working definition of antisemitism, including the seven contemporary examples adopted by 35 countries and embraced by the United States under both Republican and Democratic administrations, provides a roadmap to defining and rooting out antisemitism. Whereas antisemitism frequently
 charges Jews with conspiring to harm humanity and blames Jews for why things go wrong. It is expressed in speech, writing, visual forms and action and employs sinister stereotypes and negative character traits.
 And whereas defining anti-Semitism increases awareness in the community, leading to better monitoring and reporting more informed analyses and investigation of incidences in order to enhance public safety and policymaking.
 And whereas the South Bend Council has consistently condemned anti-Semitism and committed to combating all forms of hate and extremism in previous resolutions and statements,
 and along with the Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley and other community partners, works with law enforcement, interfaith and community leaders, and in schools to denounce hatred and bigotry of all kinds.
 And whereas the South Bend Common Council is committed to cultivating an inclusive community and ending the spread of hate and bigotry and harassment based on race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, sex, gender, gender identity, and expression, sexual orientation, disability, and any other protected characteristic as defined by law.
 And whereas the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's working definition is intended to be a non-legally binding statement of guidance and an educational tool to help combat anti-Semitism in South Bend, Indiana. And nothing in this resolution should be construed to limit any person's right to free speech.
 or a political debate which are protected under the First Amendment. And whereas modern forms of anti-Semitism can manifest through anti-Zionism when denying the Jewish right to exist and self-determination or employing an anti-Semitic trope, but does not extend to criticism of Israel's governmental policies or actions,
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1, the South Bend Common Council adopts the International Holocaust Resolution.
 Remembrance Alliance's working definition of anti-Semitism, including the seven contemporary examples, and endorses the use of the working definition as a framework and useful educational tool, among other resources concerning the identification of discrimination rooted in anti-Semitism and for discussions to address such discrimination.
 I'm going to read the definition. Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish and non-Jewish individuals and or their property, toward Jewish community, instructions, and religious facilities.
 Section 2, the South Bend Common Council denounces and condemns anti-Semitism in all its manifestations.
 Section 3, the South Bend Common Council affirms the Council's ongoing commitment to cultivate an inclusive, safe, and just society and culture that values the diversity of our community, works to ensure equitable opportunities in all major facets of society, and celebrates both our individuality and commonality. Section 4.
 The South Bend Common Council encourages the local schools to facilitate Holocaust education to discourage anti-Semitic attitudes. In Section 5, the South Bend Common Council urges residents to join us by adopting these values in their own lives, calling attention to these harms, and denouncing anti-Semitism, hate, and extremism to help keep us all safe.
 I'd like to now bring up Mr. Bob Pfefferman. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Robert Pfefferman, 54262 Sagewood Drive in Mishawaka. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Robert Pfefferman. I am Community Relations Director for the Jewish Federation in St. Joe Valley.
 I want to thank the Common Council for this opportunity to speak here tonight, and thank you for your consideration of this resolution condemning anti-Semitism and all forms of hate. And my special thanks and appreciation to Council Member Lori Hammond for all of her hard work in researching and initiating this important resolution. And thank you to members Karen White and Henry Davis Jr. for co-sponsoring the resolution.
 I'm proud to say that I grew up here in South Bend. I'm a graduate. I'm a product of South Bend Public Schools, graduating from Adams High School in 1971. During the time that I grew up here in the 60s and 70s, I actually experienced very little anti-Semitism. And I would say that for most American Jews of my generation, we believe that anti-Semitism in America was a thing of the past.
 Now, that was not the experience of my parents, who also grew up here in South Bend before World War II. In America of the 1920s and 1930s, anti-Semitism was widespread in the United States. At the same time, in spite of the anti-Semitism that my parents' generation knew, South Bend always has been a good place for the Jewish community.
 It was here in South Bend that my parents, grandparents, and their cousins found the religious freedom that they did not know in Eastern Europe. It was here in America that they could work hard, get an education, build businesses, and create a better future for themselves and their children. And in fact, it was here in South Bend that my father could work his way through college at the University of Notre Dame during the Great Depression,
 and graduate before going off to serve, to proudly serve his country during World War II. So for American Jews, there's no doubt that in spite of its imperfections, America has been and will be the land of freedom and opportunity. So for me, as for many American Jews, the resurgence of anti-Semitism in America in recent years has come both as a surprise and a shock.
 Now, there is no doubt that we were aware of the violent anti-Semitism that was taking place in Europe over the past two decades. We were certainly aware of Israel's struggle for survival in the face of Islamic extremism. But I think that many of us felt that violent anti-Semitism would not come here to America. We were wrong.
 Life for American Jews changed on October 27, 2018, when a white supremacist named Robert Bowers walked into the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh and murdered 11 worshipers. Since that horrible day in 2018, synagogues and Jewish institutions across America, including here in South Bend, have taken concrete steps to increase visible security.
 If it wasn't the case before 2018, it is now standard operating procedure to have a police presence in front of our synagogues during worship services. The attack in Pittsburgh was followed by other attacks on synagogues, including an attack in Poway, California and Dallas, Texas. Physical attacks against religious Jews in large cities like New York have become regular occurrences.
 Jewish students on many college campuses have been harassed for being openly Jewish and supporting Israel. And just last week, for the first time in my memory, our Jewish Federation reached out to South Bend Police to request extra patrols near our synagogues on Saturday following a nationwide threat from extremist groups calling for a day of hate. Well, the numbers tell the story.
 Anti-Semitic incidents have tripled in the United States over the past six years. According to the FBI, 63% of all religious hate crimes target Jews, even though we make up only 2% of the American population.
 Here in South Bend, there have been instances where Jewish people walking to synagogue experience harassment from people driving by, rolling down the window, and shouting anti-Semitic insults. As an employee of the Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley, I also saw the signs that something is changing. It was about five years ago that we began to see a disturbing pattern
 I personally dealt with three incidents in our local schools where Jewish students were targeted with anti-Semitic bullying. The incidents were strikingly similar. The bullies would say, your family should have died in Auschwitz. Although we are fortunate here in South Bend not to have seen a violent attack on a Jewish institution, we cannot be complacent. Hatred knows no boundaries.
 And that is why the resolution that you are considering tonight is so important, but not only for the Jewish community. The lessons of history teach us that the hatred that begins with the Jews does not end with the Jews. This resolution acknowledges that important historical lesson. It makes the point that hatred directed toward any group in our community is unacceptable. Now, what are the sources of this resurgence of anti-Semitism and hate?
 While there is no doubt that the answer is complex, I see the internet and social media as a major source of the problem. While these innovations have brought us many blessings, they are also a source of the most convoluted conspiracy theories about Jews and other minorities. Too many of our citizens, especially young people, have allowed themselves to be brainwashed into accepting extremist beliefs. And we also know from recent events
 that well-known celebrities have used their social media platforms to spread anti-Semitism. For our part, to confront this dangerous trend, the Jewish Federation of St. Joseph Valley, together with our partner organization in the Curtin-Tessy Simon Fund for Holocaust Remembrance of Temple Beth-El, offers speakers on Holocaust education to our local schools. Holocaust education does make a difference.
 We know from the research of the ADL that Holocaust education in high school reflects gains, not only in historical knowledge, but also manifests in cultivating more empathetic, tolerant, and engaged students. Indiana is one of 20 states with a law mandating Holocaust education. We can be proud that our local schools, both public and parochial, are working with us to foster Holocaust education.
 Yet, much more can be done. Again, I want to extend my thanks and appreciation to Councilmember Lori Hammond for introducing this important resolution and to the Councilmembers for your consideration. In conclusion, I want to quote Elie Wiesel, the Holocaust survivor and author of the powerful novel Night. He said, quote, the opposite of love is not hatred.
 It is indifference. Tonight, the Common Council has the opportunity to show that it is not indifferent to this dangerous trend in American society. To borrow a phrase from the ADL, your passage of this resolution would send the message that hate has no place in South Bend, and I thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. Counselor Hammond, you have any other additional comments?
 at this time i'll turn it over to my council colleagues council or white i just uh thank you for bringing forth the resolutions and for all the comments i just want to say that uh
 We do have a substitute and there were other council members that indicated that they wanted to be co-sponsors. And those two other council members were President Sharon McBride, first district, I mean, third district representative and Councilman Kenneth Lee. And they are also part of this particular resolution. Thank you. I'll turn to any other councilors.
 Any comments? Sure. I want to, just give me a couple moments. I enjoy the quote, and I want to say, I want to say this. I thank the South Bend Police Department and their attention, because my heart grieves today. In 2023, we're still talking about hate and injustice as it relates between one group versus another, or violence.
 some some type of like um issue a person carries um that's undeserving of attention as it relates to another group of people talking about hate you know there was this um black baptist republican minister who said injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere
 And I only said that that way because, you know, we get locked into our boxes and we believe that one believes one thing versus another. So we can all believe what we choose to believe and desire to believe. It doesn't matter, you know, whether we're black, white, you know, or other. We we we have to recognize that in everybody is not the same.
 And I'm only saying all these things because I'm going to get to where I'm going with it. I received a phone call last night because I stand with you on this. This is I stand with you. And these type of situations seem like they pop up personally after a discussion has happened.
 I received a phone call last night and I was unable to answer and I received one earlier this morning from the same person but my sister, the rhythm of the phone conversations, let the phone calls let me know that there was something off. And this is this morning, like six o'clock this morning, and there was this threat against our family. She's pretty high profile in Chicago. She is a president of the Chicago Teachers Union.
 And there was a threat from a stalker that she has right now. OK, and the threat has made its way to South Bend. And the same person is the same person pushing this issue today just has been a very difficult day. I feel like it's been my four days within this one day or a few hours because of the hate that has been.
 I'm bestowed upon me on my family, you know, her family. She has three small children. I have one. And so, you know, you think about your life and try to understand how do you become a target for such behavior?
 As if you don't matter or you don't belong, you know, and like I said, I, I think the police department for their quick and swift response to, you know, our call for help because this can't stand in our society any longer. I don't know what the answer is. Um,
 How do we get around it? But we all deserve and need security and we need to feel secure and safe in our own environment. It's just it visited my front porch this morning. You know, it came into my house and you know, we don't we haven't been I guess we have necessarily been targeted at the high of a level. You know, this guy is taking pictures of South Bend.
 and sending them out over Twitter. And he's just has all of these things going on, which makes me feel really uncomfortable, right? And so I wish that our society can be more mature, would desire to be more mature in the way that we go and handle our disagreements, our issues with other people. Again, I stand with you on this. I support this.
 And if there's anything that you have that you have going on or when we have things going on here, I invite you in, you know, so that we can not only continue this conversation, but to make the society better for us all. Because no one deserves this type of attention.
 this is too much this is a heavy burden to carry and and i pray for you and your community and i hope that you pray for my community as well and my family because this is it's too much it's too much and i support you thank you any other counselors counselor cameron oh i don't know oh council wax thank you thank you for your presentation and thank you uh mr pfefferman uh i do wanna uh
 I want to say that I appreciate your comments and want to thank you in particular for your efforts along with the rest of your colleagues with the Jewish Federation to enhance the safety and security of the local Jewish community. I also want to thank the South Bend Police Department who provided additional presence at various Jewish community synagogues and institutions over the weekend to protect from this
 disturbing day of hate that was referenced before. I do want to say from the outset that I have no objection to the language of the resolution and I will be supporting it. I appreciate that Council Member Hammond gave me the opportunity to look at it in advance. And and if there was anything in there that I could
 wouldn't agree with that I had the opportunity to present that. At the same time, I do have some reservation to the general idea of this resolution. The story of the American Jewish community is much greater than that of anti-Semitism. It's a story of a community that has grown and succeeded and has achieved so much despite the adversity that they've had.
 while anti-semitism should absolutely be called out when it rears its ugly head focus that's limited to fighting anti-semitism runs the risk of portraying the jewish community as victims which we are not at the same time like i said before the specific language of the resolution is is wonderful and i will support that i just want to be clear on the overall um focus on how we address this topic to the
 within our city and generally um i think it's something that needs to be discussed and as one part of a bigger context not as its sole um issue in and of itself thank you thank you counselor lee yes thank you thank you uh councilwoman laurie hammond for
 initiating this and allowing us to be able to support discrimination based on race, religion, ethnicity, or any other characteristics is completely unacceptable. It has no place in South Bend. We must all work together to combat anti-Semitism and other forms of hate wherever they occur. This means speaking out against hate speech and hateful acts.
 supporting organizations that work to promote tolerance and understanding, and educating ourselves and others about the dangers of discrimination and prejudice. It is only by coming together in a spirit of unity and solidarity that we can hope to create a world that is free from hate and bigotry. I want to remind us, let us work together.
 to build a better future for all people, regardless of their race, religion, and background. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, I will turn to the public to see if there are any comments from the public. Dr. Jones, will you see if there's anyone in the visual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak at this time. Thank you. With that, I will turn back to counsel if there are any comments. Second.
 It's very important that we all address any act or language of hate, but we all must be aware of the fact that many of these incidences are becoming normalized in our society. And it's up to all of us to stop normalizing these narratives
 that will lead to extreme behavior, and they lead extremists to feel empowered. And I agree that a lot of it has to do with social media. People will say things on social media that they would never say standing face-to-face with another human being. And it's a shame that our society is experiencing this, but it is the job of all of us.
 to just make sure that we do not do anything to normalize this kind of behavior and these types of attitudes. Thank you. Thank you so much. I believe there was a motion on the floor by Councilor Davis and seconded by Councilor White. With that, could you call the roll please? Council Member Watts? Yes. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan?
 Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you give Resolution 2306 a reading?
 2306, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, a tax abatement for property located at 536 South Main Street. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is. President McBride, this bill came to the Committee on Community Investment earlier this afternoon and comes to the Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Petitioner, please state your name and address for the record.
 Hi, Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. First, thank you, Council Members, for being here tonight. And before your consideration is a declaratory resolution for an eight-year real property tax abatement for property located at 536 South Main Street.
 This is a building that I think everyone in South Bend, if you've spent any time here, is very familiar with. It sticks out like a sore thumb on Main Street. It's been vacant since 2021 following a series of fires.
 The building had housed eight apartments historically, but as we all know, it's an eyesore. It's been vacant. It's definitely a challenging property. Our office received a petition for a tax abatement from a developer who wishes to rehab the building. They would restore the building inside and out pretty much.
 you know, as close to a gut as you could get. All new mechanicals, interior, all new windows, brand new facade, or excuse me, restored facade. And also they would expand the number of apartments from 8 to 12. In line with the city's municipal code, at least 20% of those units would be made available to low and moderate income households. Thus, three of the units are planned to be
 targeted toward that demographic. The developer has committed to invest over $2 million in rehabbing the current building. We're very excited at the prospect of having someone come in and want to invest money into this property. As you know, the south side of downtown, you know, will experience significant growth within the next, you know, few years. There's the Devereaux Peters project called the Monroe,
 There's the Real America project where they will be building, they plan on building two
 two different apartment buildings right in that area. So this will be a pretty cool development that we'll see down there. The abatement itself, as I mentioned, is for eight years. Currently on the building, the property taxes are, you know, just over $5,000 a year. In the first year alone of this abatement, even though it is a 100% abatement, because of the increased assessed value that the property will experience,
 the taxes will double just in the first year alone as you can see on the screen the taxes to be paid are over the eight years are estimated to be about 130 000 as well the taxes abated would be over 213 000. um before you is kind of the chart table outlining our estimates related to the abatement
 you know the totals are there one of the things i wanted to just highlight for you is you know after the abatement ends you know this property will continue to have increased assessed values and my estimates that you see on the very bottom don't take those increased assessed values into account these are just
 you know very top level estimates and we think that this is a great investment for the city the developers are here to answer any questions that you might have and to discuss the project and I'm happy to answer questions as well thank you Council do you have any questions for the petitioner counselor Lee having Council Thomas Morgan could you share what the timeline of the project is please hi Brad Emberton uh 615 West Colfax Avenue in South Bend
 uh rachel would like to get this project started uh before um the next 90 days and completed by the end of the year that's our goal uh construction timelines are difficult right now but that's the plan thank you counselor nisigansky thank you president mcbride i was looking over your application and in the first section um employ local companies you have yes so i assume you've
 have a contractor here that you'll be using locally. And you've checked yes to everything except requiring prevailing wage through the Davis-Bacon, which is a wage setting for the type of jobs used to build in the construction industry. So I guess my question is, why was that the only no? And are you, in fact, using a local contractor?
 i'm not completely familiar with davis bacon so i don't know exactly how to answer that question um it was my understanding that there were threshold limits on davis bacon as to the um the amount of the or the cost of the actual project um it has to do with the wage setting for the construction the people that actually build it yeah i mean for
 when we walked through the petition with the applicants you know we did discuss kind of you know what kind of wage rates will be will be paid um you know davis bacon as we interpreted as specific to those types of projects where you know there is a prevailing wage um using the davis bacon you know i you know the way that we've interpreted as we went through the petition was specific to davis bacon and we didn't
 feel confident saying if they, even if they were, let me rephrase that, not implying that you're not paying decent wages, but that it was, it wouldn't have been appropriate to put yes
 you know advise them to put yes for that particular section because you know specifically davis bacon wouldn't have applied but i'll let you speak to kind of what i don't have the exact answer for you but why we're not applying um we're not complying with that but we are uh our current uh company that we the only company we have today that we have a bid with to do the project as majority builders um they're a local company so
 Thank you. Thank you. Councilor Hammond. Yes, if you could go back to the rendering of the side view. I remember a conversation regarding the recreation of the sidewalks and that walkway. Is that something that you'll kind of a community benefit give back? Is that what is intended there?
 the sidewalk there's two sidewalks on the which would be the west side and the south side of the building uh mike dance who was here earlier today is doing the entire site plan for us as we speak they'll comply with all the city regulations requirements and needs is there anything specifically you're referencing about them with or i can't point exactly i just recalled that there was conversation that
 um there would be a contribution to that aspect of that corner that would i'm not completely familiar with anything outside of the city's requirements that we're doing on the sidewalks um i don't know of anything right now okay thank you no no other questions with that i'll open it up to the public
 please state your name and address christopher huff 1831 college street south bend city this is the type of project that tax abatement which was approved by the people of the state of indiana about 40 years ago was designed to help foster this building's been in severe deterioration for years it's a mess it needs to be redone this is what i expect our tax abatement to be used for
 As far as Davis-Bacon, Davis-Bacon pertains to public projects. It's not a public project. This is private. Public projects would be such as streets and curbs and sidewalks, et cetera. So just my two cents worth that I would not have checked that box either. But I'm sure that they will pay these contractors and their employees a very, very fair wage, especially in today's labor market.
 So God bless you and thank you. Thank you. Dr. Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak on this? Thank you. With that, I'll turn back to counsel for comments.
 counselor warner uh yeah we heard a lot of good comments this afternoon there was one that kind of uh wasn't included that kind of went along the last speaker's lines i i have some familiarity with the condition of the interior of the building and uh if somebody privately doesn't step up this is a building in which the city is going to have to spend some funds to uh to stabilize or uh
 Thank you, Councilor Tomas-Morgan. Yes, I just want to add my gratitude to you for the investment that you're making in this particular property and in our city overall. It's an exciting project activating this very challenging vacant building. With this project and the two tax credit projects that were approved recently, it's
 My understanding were up to about 190 new apartment buildings with apartment units with 120 being dedicated affordable housing. So it's exciting. This has been an exciting year for the city trying to online more housing in general, which will address the affordable housing issue. So thank you for your investment.
 Thank you, Councillor Lee. I just want to say thank you for your investment in our city. Thank you. Councillor Wax.
 I just want to say I have no idea why this is but some of my earliest memories involve this building uh we used to go my I remember going with my dad to the uh South Bend White Sox uh back uh at Kowaleski Field back in the day and for whatever reason that's where he liked to park like right around the corner there so like that was always excitement you know getting there and getting out of the car and walking to the that was always the first building that we passed so I so
 seen it over the years and in various states and it for whatever reason it's a core memory of mine and so I'm glad that you guys are getting involved and investing in it and bring it back to hopefully beyond its former glory thanks Eli if you want to know I'll tell you the answer to your question why we're doing it we uh myself and my three partners are all heavily invested in the city of South Bend
 I live in downtown South Bend. Mark Neal, one of our partners, lives in downtown South Bend, has invested in the city. Chris owns property adjacent, a block down. I own property directly behind this. So I own the property that Midas Shop sits on, and I worked out of that office for 15 years and looked at this blight and the police cars that were there on a regular basis.
 four of us decided that we can complain all day long but the best course of action would probably be just to do something about it and so we got in the middle of it bought the building and decided that we were going to make something happen since nobody else was so that's short answer your question
 Thank you so much. Pardon me? Councilor Nieskoski. Thank you. Just because I asked the question about the prevailing wage doesn't mean that I don't support the project. I understand. Thank you. Thank you. With that being said, I'll turn to council. I move that we send Bill 2306. We pass 2306. I move for passage. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, call the roll, please. Thank you.
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 Um, first thing I have to accept the substitute for bill resolution 2308 for the name change of reaffirming the resolution. Second has been moved in second and all in favor. I any opposition? The motions carry. Secondly, substitute bill for the correct numbering of 2306.
 was it 2308 2308 2308 um entertain a motion for that correction so moved second it's been moved in second all in favor aye any opposition the motion is carried thank you clerk jones would you please read substitute bill 23 vast zero eight
 2308, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the grant of certain real property tax abatement deductions and waiving noncompliance for property commonly known as 5245 Dillon Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46628 for CBK Land Development LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 yes president mcbride this came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation thank you please state your name and address for the record hi eric lavage director of growth and opportunity within the department of community investment with offices on the 14th floor
 council members before you is a resolution which would reaffirm a tax abatement that was passed in 2019 for cbk land development llc cbk land development llc is a wholly owned subsidiary of chase plastics which operates out of the facility in 2019 the council had passed a tax abatement uh
 related to an addition that was placed onto the building. You can see circled in or outlined in yellow, the addition. The waiver of noncompliance concerns a failure of the property tax owner to file the form CF1, which is required every year of a tax abatement. They failed to file it with the county auditor's office.
 in pay year 21 and pay year 22. This was an inadvertent mistake by the property tax owner, excuse me, by the property owner. They'd actually filed the form with our office and with the county assessor. As you know, the state's forms are very confusing. The instructions are
 are not clear at all. Last year, this company had recognized that they had filed incorrectly. They filed last year's correctly and had come to our office requesting this waiver due to their error.
 This waiver of noncompliance applies only to the tax abatement that was passed in 2019, which concerns only the addition. It does not concern a previously passed tax abatement that impacted the entirety of the building. The project itself was completed in May 2020. The
 petitioner or excuse me the property owner had committed to invest three and a half million dollars in their expansion they actually exceeded that and spent 3.6 million dollars um as i commented earlier you know they had accidentally filed the forms with the wrong office that's the only error that was made and our office had found them in compliance with the commitments they had made with the 2019 abatement
 representatives from Chase Plastics are here to answer any questions you might have, discuss the project. I don't know if they would like to say anything, but...
 hi my name is amanda burtelson i'm a controller at chase plastics from clarkston michigan um this was noticed and we corrected it as soon as we can so i just really wanted to thank everybody for your time and consideration of this um waiver and if you do have any questions i'm happy to answer them council you have any questions counselor wax
 i know we discussed this earlier just for the public who may be listening just want to confirm that the only non-compliance was failing to for to file a specific form with the correct office but in all other aspects they're in compliance with the abatement agreement that is that is correct council member they had failed to file cf1
 with the county auditor, even though they have filed it with our office and with the county assessor's office. Thank you. Thank you. With that, I'll turn to the, oh, Councilor Hammond. Can you just help me understand in 2021, you paid $7,500 in taxes, but then didn't realize why that had been paid and then paid again in 2022, is that correct?
 Yes. And it was prior to my time at the company, so I really can't answer what their thoughts were. But when I started in January, that's when I noticed that we weren't, you know, that the numbers were off. Council Member, if I could, if I may, they had one of the numbers in front of me, but it's roughly 80 to 90 thousand dollars that they had been paying on the original building. This the abatement that you see up.
 appear the refund that they received for 7500 that would be the tax that was applied to the new assessed value as they were putting on the addition so um the 7500 that they would be refunded for pay year 2021 does not impact what they had already paid on the existing building which was
 you know roughly eighty thousand dollars in property no i'm just questioning from a bookkeeping perspective when that kind of money leaves the company you would think that red flags would go up that's just my question thank you thank you with that i'll turn to the public portion is there anyone's here wishing to speak in favor of resolution 23-08
 Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in opposition of bill number 2308? Is there anyone in the virtual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience as well. Thank you. The public portion is now closed. Counsel, I'll turn back to you. What's your pleasure? Move for adoption. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Vice President Miscavige. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 23-08 has been adopted. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 07-23 a first reading?
 0723. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1007 and 1011 Howard Street, Councilmanic District number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill set zero seven dash twenty three to south bend plan commission on march 20th and to zna for public hearing and third reading on march 27th second it's been moved in second and all in favor aye any opposition motions carry clerk jones will you please give bill 08-23 reading
 0823, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position and amend the maximum salaries of two existing full-time positions.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 08-23 to Person on Finance for March 13th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Any opposition? Motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 09-23 a first reading? 09-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the year 2023.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 09-23 to Person on Finance for March 13th. So moved. Second. So we move and second it. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 10-23 a first reading?
 1023, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2023 of $729,545 from the general fund number 101, $255,785 from the partisan recreation fund number 201.
 $15,000 from the Gift Donation and Bequest Fund, number 217. $449,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, number 220. $8,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222. $41,000 from the Code Enforcement Fund, number 230. $40,000 from the Police Federal Drug Enforcement Fund, number 299.
 $34,895 from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area Fund, number 413. $800,000 from the Morris Performing Arts Center Capital Fund, number 416. $30,000 from the 2017 Parks Bond Capital Fund, number 471. $551,957 from the Consolidated Building Fund, number 600.
 $5,000 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601, $75,000 from the Solid Waste Capital Fund, number 611, and $150,000 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642. Thank you. I just want to make note that the $80,000 instead of $8,000 from the Central Services Fund. I would like to entertain a motion that we send
 Bill 10-23 to Person on Finance for March 13th. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion is carried. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Can you tell me number 0723, is that March 27th? Yes, it goes to plan commission on March 20th and to ZNA on March 27th. Okay. Thank you. Any unfinished business? No.
 Yes, President, may I? Yes. Unfinished business. I had a press conference from me about a week ago at Beacon Heights property. There appears to be an infestation of critters and also friendly mice in the living quarters of families that are obviously tenants at the Beacon Heights property.
 I feel a bit unnerved about this development because many of those kids are students over at Coquilleur Elementary School. And many of those students are tasked with the responsibility to come into school with the understanding that they have to take their clothes off and change into new clothes.
 uh before school starts and also has had a number of teacher absences because of the bed bug and and and the critter problem that we have here or that they have there at this uh particular facility or a house or apartments it's not a facility it's apartments that story not only is uh there but is that many of our subsidized housing units and the reason why i know this is because i get the phone calls and a lot of them are in within the second district
 I've been trying to work with code enforcement, the building department. I think Zach Lue over at the building department, he's an awesome person. God, he's awesome. We've tried to figure out, or rather I've asked them to figure out and helped as well to figure out how do we enforce code in those places. We have many of our seniors.
 um integer population as well as children living in these unbearable conditions um Southern housing authority is one that comes that's an alarming you know example as well where we have the same problem have it over there at the Carl King Towers has a lot to do with uh some landlord issues of just being absent or unaccountable for their properties
 But the most the part that I have calling out right now, it has a lot to do with the lack of enforcement by city code, code enforcement and also building department as it relates to these buildings. I understand that there is a state law. I understand that there's a local ordinance as well.
 But it will behoove us not to figure out how to play a part in cleaning up these developments. We talk about the amount of crime that has happened in this state that occurs. And this is a part of what causes crime. This is part of the start of crime. When people feel like they're not being treated to the level or at the level that they deserve, right?
 And so I am asking right now for help on how to address the issue. Like I said, it's just not one particular unit. It's not one particular property. It's all of them. And I would like to believe that we can do a lot better here in South Bend.
 I've sat down with the fire department. I've sat down with code enforcement several times have sat down with a building department I've sat with all of the different heads that's over these issues and to no avail. It seems like the issue continues to grow and get worse for many of our residents and I'm talking about 2% or 1% of the residents. Quite a few of our residents, and so I think if we're as a counselor interested in better housing,
 that obviously is affordable for those that demographic, we don't want them to leave the area. So I'm asking for help, support in addressing this because I'm sure that it's not only within the second district, but it's widespread across the city.
 Thank you. I'm sending an email to follow up right now. You say what? I'm sending an email right now to code enforcement following up about your inquiry. So I will. That's the first step. The second step I'll get with you to move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Any other new business? Counselor Hammond. I would just like to bring attention to.
 A couple of potential concerns. We had worked really, really hard to get a city, county and private partnership together for the crisis center and for the crisis unit.
 We had also worked very, very hard for two and a half years to put together a joint funding between county and city, as well as private partners to work toward the low barrier intake center, which we have plans for and we have money for. But we're having a difficult time keeping all of the partners safe.
 willing to do the part that they have committed to. And I would ask that my fellow council members join in on the conversation to encourage that the groups that had committed as we put these plans together,
 follow through on their commitments. So thank you. I appreciate that. I also had a discussion because I sit on the Committee of Behavioral Crisis Center and I did have a conversation with some people and it was pretty much a stalemate. So I just had that conversation actually yesterday, but I will continue to fight the fight also. Any other counsel? We are still in
 my notes right we are now going into new business is there any new business from council sure i just have a comment about earlier actions um i'm not going to spell out what this is but i'm going to say this council is becoming complicit in the idea of changing a narrative for the city of south bend um i've noticed
 a few housing developments that we are patting ourselves on the back about and calling it affordable housing really isn't what occurs when we or shouldn't occur when we're trying to build a community for all. It just appears that now that we're running at this affordable housing thing, the wins that we're trying to achieve are wins through people who are connected to the local government and the heads of the local government.
 I'm not going to say that we shouldn't do these things, right? But when they're being lined up the way they are, one can only question where's the stuff coming from, especially when the dates of building are well after the primary all into the summer. I've been here before, I've seen this before,
 And when things do change up that way, those things do not politically, when things change up politically, those things do not get addressed or even finished. It's almost a way of counting and say that this is happening in hopes that, you know, the political climate can stay the same. I would hate that this council is being held responsible or even complicit in changing a narrative that ultimately doesn't become true unless.
 some political things happen that are in line with what the current powers to be want to have happen. I'm just paying attention to names. I'm paying attention to times of delivery of projects and also even services and even.
 the fact that there are all these city incentives to help support the development, but the development doesn't happen again until you know later into the summer or late spring. Just an idea, just a thought. I could be completely wrong, but I've seen this before. It's a way of counting winds before the wind actually happens in order to say that this is going on. We cannot, and this is the last thing I'm going to say is we cannot
 squeeze three years in in one year or a couple months. If nothing has been done over the last three years, surely the next three months or the last three months or however you want to count them are going to not make that big of a difference in trying to attract the support that we need from the public as it relates to our reelection bids. I call a foul on it. I'll send you the housing permits for 2021 and 2022, Mr. Davis.
 I didn't ask for them. You might be interested in them.
 I didn't ask for them. I just think right now, this is definitely not the... Excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. This is definitely not the time to talk political anything. This is all political. This is a business meeting that we're having, and this is not the forum for any campaign plugs or anything by anybody. This is us serving the council, and this is not the place that we talk about...
 This is what we do. And if I heard you correctly, you said that you're not sure if even what the comment you're saying is accurate. So it's inappropriate for any of us to be talking about any campaign. Well, he said he'll send you the housing information. I'm going to prove me wrong. Yeah, there's some things. But this is not the platform, just like it's not the platform to send out press releases about any campaign, political anything. We this is not the forum to have that conversation.
 I do. May I? Yes.
 And so a lot of the ideation that was happening during that time, for very obvious reasons, not able to execute on that until the pandemic is lifted, which really has only been the past year. Thank you. With that, I will turn to the purpose of the floor. Christopher Huff, 1831 College Street. I don't get up here just to make waves or to, you know, that I need attention because I don't. But speaking of housing.
 Four years ago, there was a scandal in this community. Everybody know what I'm talking about? Three or four people from our housing authority were arrested and charged, but I don't know if they've been tried or convicted. And how many millions of dollars did they steal from us? Because ultimately that money comes from us. I don't care if it's channeled through the federal government or from the state government or from any other governmental agency. Right?
 Six million dollars from the woman, a million bucks from a couple of the other those other people, some of which I think did work for the city or no. They took money from Section 8. That's what it was. Then there is the director who appoints those people, the mayors, council. I know. I know who I know. I'm just I'm saying this for rhetorical purposes. OK, you're griping about housing in one fashion or another.
 By God, these people better there better be justice served on them. And I don't care who they are or who they think they are or where they worked or where their part time jobs were. And you all nine of you, as well as the guy upstairs on the 14th floor northwest corner, better be on this because I want to hear something about it. I want to hear just how much these people are going to reimburse us for our money that they stole. How much did they lose? Was it over at Blue Chip? Is that is that where they lost it or?
 Maybe they went over to up in the Michigan. Okay, so I'm giving you something to do besides argue with each other and gripe and blah, blah, blah. I want to find out. I want you to find out, and I want you and you and you and you and you and you to let the public know what the situation is with this because I expect it to be paid back. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Anyone else? Clark Jones, you see anyone in the virtual audience?
 There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that, we stand adjourned.