to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Okay. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input.
 Insert your name, your address, and what you would like to speak on if you would like to speak for or against. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks.
 For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat, and the Council President will call on you during the relevant time for public input. Insert your name and your address, and you will then be given five minutes to speak, and please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Due to the executive order by Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the South Bend Common Council meeting will be legally held by way of a virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams application. Our invocation will be given by Councilman Troy Warner, 4th District Representative. Thank you, President White. Dear God, we ask you to shine your light.
 on our community, our city, our state, our nation, and our world. We ask that you raise those that are downtrodden, that have slipped or have fallen. We ask that you fill our community with life, energy, love, and passion, that you shield all of our residents from fear, from hunger, and vaccinate our hearts from the diseases of anger, hate, and jealousy. Help us unite. Help us find common ground that exists between us all.
 Guide this council, our mayor, and all of our city staff to best serve our residents and fulfill our duties as elected officials on this day and every day. Amen. Thank you, Councilmember Warner. At this time, we'll go to roll call. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Davis? Henry's here. Councilmember Lee? Here. Councilmember Warner? Here.
 Councilmember Wax. Present. Councilmember Nieskowski. Present. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President McBride. Present. President White. Present. Nine present. Thank you so much. We'll now go to report from the subcommittee on minutes.
 Clerk Jones, would you please read the reports and that is for January the 25th, 2001 and February the 8th, 2021 from the subcommittee on minutes. Okay.
 Report of the subcommittee on minutes to the Common Council of the City of South Bend. The subcommittee has inspected the minutes of January 25, 2021, February 8, 2021 meetings of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend that the same be approved.
 Thank you. I will now obtain a motion to accept the reports from the Subcommittee on Minutes for the January 25, 2021 and February 8, 2021 meetings. Is there a motion? So moved. Is there a second? I second. We have a motion and has been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis, Councilmember Lee? Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes.
 The minutes have been accepted. We'll now go to special business, a proclamation awarded by the South Bend Common Council. I'll ask Clerk Jones to read the proclamation. And I know that Council Member Harry Davis is the sponsor of this wonderful proclamation. Okay.
 A proclamation awarded by the South Bend Council member honoring the South Bend Washington Lady Panthers high school basketball team for its success in the 2020-2021 basketball season and in the Indiana State Basketball Tournament. Thank you. Councilmember Davis. Yes, I'm here. I'm going to ask Clerk Jones because I can't see
 who's on and who's not for whatever reason but is there any member from the the uh team of uh on this meeting call i'm not sure unless they say that they are um i don't have a list of those that are on the team i'm not sure was notice sent out to everyone yes they were notified let me look in another place
 We just need to get vaccinated so we can get back downtown. I am tired. See, I'm not sure because I don't have a list in front of me of everybody on the team. So I would say if there is anyone that is on the team or affiliated with Washington girls basketball team, please raise your hand or put something in the chat box. And so that's I don't see it.
 If not, we can just go ahead and continue over to the next meeting. I mean, it's for them, to honor them. So, or rather, you know, them being attendants. I don't know why they're not. Okay, Council Member Davis, we'll do that. And we will continue this proclamation until our March 22nd meeting. Thank you. Thank you as well. We'll now move to reports from city officers. Invocation, I mean...
 from Technology Update, Denise Rydell, Chief Information Officer. I need to start wearing my glasses now. I've been trying to hold off, but it's not working.
 OK, thank you so much. We're so glad to have you with us to give us an update on innovation and technology and what will happen after your presentation. Each council member will have opportunity to ask two questions and last time we had an update from city offices. I started with the at large members and this time going to start with the 1st district 2nd district and go all the way down so that you know that.
 So I'll turn it over to you and also Chair Rachel Thomas-Morgan, would you like to make any comments prior to the presentation? Just briefly, President White, I just want to thank Ms. Denise Riedel and her team for being here this evening and giving counsel and update. I believe tonight's focus is going to be on the resident survey, but I'll turn that over to Ms. Lynn Riedel to start us off. Okay, thank you.
 Good afternoon or good evening. I should say to everyone. My name is Denise Lynn Riedel. I am the chief innovation officer for the city of South Bend and I'm head of our Department of Innovation
 And so as Councilmember Thomas Morgan mentioned, I'll be briefing the Council today on the results of the city survey. We conduct this about every two years. This is only the second time we have done the survey. And so it's a relatively new addition to city operations, but one that I think is very promising because obviously we can't improve anything unless we measure it. So, yeah.
 I am going to be sharing the results of that with all the council members today, and I'll try and keep my remarks relatively brief because I think the question portion will be very, I'm sure, very useful for this body. So I'm going to share my screen and actually give an interactive tour of
 The website where you can actually access the results of the community survey. So if you go to southmanin.gov backslash community survey, there is a landing page on the city website that has the results of the community survey.
 And today I'm going to spend most of the time we have giving you a tour of this interactive dashboard that we've built. And this is the work and this project, too, is led by the business analytics team within my department, the Department of Innovation and Technology. That team is in charge of data analytics, open data analytics.
 as well as process improvement and innovation in the city. So they have a big job, but they worked with an external firm called ETC, who does quite a lot of surveying for cities of South Bend size. And they conducted a representative survey of South Bend residents.
 Chiefly about city services. So the main goal of the survey is to measure satisfaction across the wide array of city services, as well as to take the temperature of resident satisfaction with general quality of life indicators.
 You know, whether they like the way their neighborhood looks, customer service interactions with the city. We've even asked about COVID response in this most recent survey. So I'm going to give you a brief tour of this dashboard. You can go to it at southbentin.gov backslash community survey and interact with it yourself. And of course, are free to connect with myself and our director of business analytics, David Finley, who's here on the call today.
 And we can also meet with you or provide some more information about the results. So on this dashboard, there's just some background about the community survey. If you scroll through, the first page here just has some of the big overall perception questions we ask of all residents, including questions on, you know, rating South Bend as a place to live, just general quality of life,
 responses to COVID, I think it's worth mentioning that while, you know, I think that these results of the community survey, generally we see small decreases from 2018 to 2020. And that's actually in line with decreases or results seen across the country. You know, the cities that ETC partners with
 have seen moderate decreases in services across the country, likely linked to just decreases in satisfaction and quality of life generally. That being said, we're quite concerned about these gaps and would like to close them. And we also are concerned about these benchmarks. And so if you look over here, you can actually see the comparison to Great Lakes cities in general.
 And satisfaction on a whole is higher with that benchmark. And that is something that we would also like to close that gap in years to come. And we'll be measuring against that progress. One thing that I think the region can be proud of is that compared to our peers in the Great Lakes, people are quite satisfied with the city and the county's COVID response. So I wanted to point that out.
 Besides that, though, these are kind of the bigger picture questions that we ask of residents about South Bend as a place to raise children, a place to visit, a place to retire. And so these questions, again, you can look over these more and compare them to 2018 as well as to Great Lakes Piers. Thank you.
 So here we have listed satisfaction and priority with various city services. So again, we ask about infrastructure, we ask about policing, we ask about code enforcement, really every service in each department. We ask about one, how much is the resident satisfied with that particular service?
 And how much of a priority do they see that as in terms of how the city should be spending money and how the city should be allocating its time?
 So in terms of the service and how important it is, the one that rose to the top is the maintenance of city streets, sidewalks, and infrastructure. This is actually also the case for 2018. These top three ranked services here, streets, sidewalks, infrastructure, planning and growth,
 And local codes and ordinances, these are the same top three services that were also flagged in the 2018 survey. So there is some consistency there. On the other side, you also see something similar with the 2018 survey. The overall quality of fire services was also ranked as the service that residents were most satisfied with, in addition to EMS. Yes.
 So when we ask questions about satisfaction with various city services, like fire, like police, like timeliness of trash services, residents have the option to answer whether they're very satisfied,
 dissatisfied, neutral, dissatisfied, or very dissatisfied. So in addition to knowing how, on a whole, satisfied residents are, which is indicated by just how much blue is here on this chart, you can also see, you know, how neutral people are, how maybe polarized people feel about a particular issue or service.
 And so this is a good visual to see what that looks like. So there might be services like, say, how well the city is planning growth, where there's actually quite a lot of neutral sentiment in that. Whereas if you look at something like city efforts to keep you informed about disruptions to trash, very few neutral sentiments around that. People tend to have opinions about that service.
 So this is probably the most useful tab, especially for council members, and I want to spend a little bit of time here. One very useful thing about this community survey that we do every two years is that in addition to asking about these particular surveys and making sure to survey a number of residents, that gives us a certain confidence interval about the results.
 We also break out the survey results by council district. And so obviously some members of council serve particular parts of South Bend and others are at large. But mostly, especially in the media area.
 And in, you know, just briefs and summaries about this survey, mostly people have been focused on the overall citywide numbers. And those are very important to talk about, especially benchmarking year to year and comparing to peers so that we know what we really need to work on as a city. One very important thing within the city, though, is understanding how satisfaction varies across different districts. And so, for instance, here you can select
 a particular question about a particular service. So say bulky item pickup removal services or say condition of major city streets.
 Right. So you see these blue bars moving and that actually just shows you, you know, across different districts, not just with the average citywide, but for each district, what that satisfaction level is. So for this particular question, the condition of major city streets, District 4 has a higher satisfaction rate than, say, District 6.
 Another good example to look at would be actually housing quality in your neighborhood. This is another question that actually has very different results depending on which district that you're answering from. So districts two, district six, district one, all noticeably lower than districts five and four.
 So I would just encourage council members to look through these. You know, we'd be happy to answer any questions you have right now or get back to you with certain summaries or analytics that would be helpful for you.
 but this is something we built so that the public and council members can interact with this information in a more useful way. If people prefer to read things, of course, we also have the PDFs online and these just, you know, summarize everything in a more traditional way and provide some highlights and people can certainly read those reports. We have the report for 2020 as well as 2018.
 So I'll take a pause there and I'd be happy to answer any questions that council members have. And I'll keep this up in case that's a useful thing. Thank you so much. I'm going to start with first district representative Kenneth Lee, followed by second district representative Henry Davis, Henry Davis Jr. Again, thanks, Denise, for this this presentation.
 I really don't have any questions, but just this will be very interesting to be able to go through and find out information, a little more in-depth information for our district. So I think this is a great start to really breaking down the data and information so that we can use it to be able to interact with the public. So thank you. We'll now go to Councilman Henry Davis, Jr.,
 Councilmember? I don't have anything. Okay. Well, I'll go down to third district representative Sharon McBride. Thank you, Denise, for your presentation and President White. Denise, my question is I know that 311 calls have been slower, a lot slower.
 I don't know if it was this due to can you explain a little bit of why that slowdown has been because there has been an increase of services, delayed services or response from 311, which had usually showed a high rate.
 turnaround volume and also like now it impacts trash pickup and things like that. Can you speak a little bit towards that? Those are my questions. Absolutely. Yeah, no, I'd be happy to. And just to clarify for council members, the survey results technically are separate from 311, but 311 is in my department. So I'd be happy to answer that question now and provide some more detailed information to you in writing if that's helpful for council.
 I can kind of break it down and follow up with you, Councilmember McBride, but just