Eli Wax. Thank you. I don't have any questions. I just wanted to thank you for your work on this and for the presentation. I do look forward to spending some time with this. I think it will be extremely helpful for all of us on the council as we look at legislative proposals and especially as we're coming up to budget year. It's extremely important.
 important for us to know what our residents and what our citizens really care most about as we focus on them in the coming years. So thank you. Thank you as well. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski. Thank you, President White. And thank you, Denise, for the presentation. And I did read that report. It was rather lengthy, but I did go through because I wanted to see how they were posing the questions.
 But what I don't remember is as far as the 686 total residents, were those picked and then balanced out throughout the whole city? I mean, there was an imbalance of more from one district than the other. And you said this would be every two years. Is that correct? That we'll be doing this again? That's correct. Yes, every two years. Yes.
 And actually here on this last screen of the dashboard, you can see where all the respondents live. You're not gonna be able to zoom in here and see exact addresses obviously because of privacy reasons.
 But you can see demographic information and summary data about the residents. And we work with ETC to make sure that those surveyed are as representative of the overall population as possible. So you can see the breakdown by gender, by homeowners versus renters, who those people are, where they live, you know, the Latinx community, the Black community.
 Those who identify as other. So you can explore that as well. But we always work with the ETC to strive that this is as representative as possible. And that number that was sampled was so there was 200 from the 6th, the 5th. You took that same equal amount throughout the city.
 I'll connect with ETC just to get specifics on the district by district method and have that sent over to you guys. But I know this overall goal every year, their overall goal is to get over with a city of our size to get over 600 total just so we could reach a 95 percent confidence interval across the city.
 But I'll confirm the district by district internal methodology just so I have that. I'm characterizing that accurately for you. OK, well thank you very much. I appreciate it. Short presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Thank you President White. Good evening Denise. Thank you for the presentation. Just one question with the many of these.
 concerns and the things that are listed on the survey have to do with particular departments within the city. And I'm wondering if you can just give us some insights. I know this is not part of your job per se, but if we could get some insights as to perhaps how the city departments are using this as a tool
 um to correct some of the areas of dissatisfaction within the city yeah absolutely um i i can't speak for the other department heads so i'd be happy to coordinate with them to supplement my answer but um uh i after we get these community uh survey results um we do meet with um uh department heads across the city to brief them on uh the results of the survey
 Another thing that we do is we incorporate this into the STAT program at the city. So every quarter, the mayor, in partnership with our department and other city departments, we do a performance management meeting where different city leaders and teams track performance.
 the progress of various stats and priority goals of the city. Everything from increasing diversity in police recruiting to improving the streets and sidewalks projects, to improving the scores that our fire department receives from the state of Indiana. And so these metrics all play into those kind of KPIs that we track in those quarterly meetings.
 And so our Director of Business Analytics, David Finley, has met with department heads on these results. And in addition, we would like these results to be an important factor as we start to plan out the budget process for 2022. Good to know. Thank you very much. Moving on to Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan. Thank you, President White. Thank you.
 Ms. Rydell, thank you very much for this presentation. I found the tool just incredibly useful. It's extraordinary to be able to put that data into something that's so usable for the public and for all of us. Like Councilwoman Nitzkatski, I'm a traditionalist and read through the entire report.
 I also want to thank your department for what you do in terms of helping our city to be more transparent. And so publishing this kind of data for the public is a reflection of our commitment to government transparency and appreciate your role in that very much.
 My question was related to the sample and I think you already answered it, but I was struck by the number of residents and overall it roughly represents less than 1% of our population. So just wondering how the firm gets to that number. I mean, you said 95% confidence rate, but could you say just how does the firm determine that number?
 And then I didn't I didn't have a chance to look back at 2018 to know what the sample size was. Yeah. In 2018, I actually looked that up earlier today. In 2018, the sample size was about 700. So a little bit more than this. I mean, I think just anecdotally, I wouldn't be surprised if like I mean, as.
 As time has gone by, it's harder and harder to get representative samples from surveys, especially phone and mail surveys. I think like the public called it like poll fatigue, like the public has experienced a lot of poll fatigue in recent years. And it's been harder to kind of get those representative samples.
 Yeah, that being said, the benchmark for getting a 95% confidence interval, you know, meaning achieving kind of a three-ish percent like kind of margin of error.
 like confidence that we're about in that ballpark on all the numbers, is at the very least 600 residents for a city of 100,000. And so they're really backwards mapping from that 95% confidence interval goal. For future surveys, we could strive for more responses or kind of an even higher confidence interval level. That's something we could opt to do.
 Okay, thank you. In order to get to that number, how many asks were sent out? Oh, far more. And actually, I can find out what that number is for you. Yeah. Okay, just curious to know what multiples of that you had to get, you had to send it out to. Yeah, I know the process. I can find out that number because I think that's just informative. But
 I know that the process involves, you know, initially sending the survey by mail, giving people an option to, you know, do it by phone or online, and then also follow-up contact. I know David Finley is on the call. Is there anything else you'd like to add to the ETC methodology, David, on the survey? Just that they would also be able to…
 follow up in multiple languages. So that was another aspect, specifically Spanish. Very nice. Thank you, Mr. Finley.
 Okay, well Denise would like to thank you for your presentation. I concur with other council members in regards to the need to drill down a little bit further and see this as a planning tool as we prepare for the upcoming budget season. It'll be interesting for me, I would like to look at all the different districts and based on the responses and if there are any commonalities
 Okay, and what are the, you know, the gaps, and just to see exactly how they respond in regards to their level of satisfaction based on those questions. And I would take that a step further. I would actually want to go and drive and just to see for myself. So I think it's an excellent tool, but we need to drill it down a little bit further.
 further and we need to make a decision in regards to how we're going to use the survey. One, you know, we definitely would want to respond to our residents. And I'm willing to bet that a lot of the responses are we're going to see some commonality in regards to the concerns that they have been sharing over a period of time. The question becomes, how do we respond as a city?
 But thank you so much. Very interesting. I've not read the entire survey. I'm just halfway through. But thank you so much. And please reach out to any council members. I would encourage council members to reach out to you as well. Thank you so much. Have a great evening. Thank you. You as well. I put the link to the landing page for the survey in the chat here. And please do reach out if you have any questions. Thank you. Have a great evening as well.
 We'll now move into the Committee of the Whole. I will entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee? Councilmember Lee?
 He's probably just used to you calling me first. Well, I have to switch him around. That's according to the code. Right. OK. He might be on mute. I'll come back. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nesgotsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis?
 President White? Aye. Council Member Lee? I see. Council Member Lee, could you unmute yourself, please? As of now, I have eight ayes. Thank you. Okay, thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session.
 This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from the staff will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. We are going to start with, I believe, Bill 7221. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7221 a second reading? Yes. Thank you.
 7221, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10749-20, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the city of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2021. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, Madam Chair.
 Bill 7221 was heard in the Personnel and Finance Committee earlier this evening and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is the petitioner present? Yes, actually that is myself, Dawn Jones, City Clerk, Office on the fourth floor. This is the salary for the CRB Director and it is capped at $65,000.
 And once this is passed, then we will move forward with doing the interviews. We do have applications in. And once we hire a director and we commit to the consultant, we will move forward with doing another budget and coming forth with that. So this is just for the salary of $65,000 cap. Okay.
 Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner? Anyone? You do have a hand up. Councilwoman Sharon McBride. Hi, thank you. Thank you, Clerk Jones, for the presentation. May I ask for a copy of the list of applicants? Yes.
 Yes, actually that's something that's going to come up under new business because all the council will get the applications and we will have to take an executive time to screen the applicants. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Is there any other council members that have a question? Okay. If not, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion.
 Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7221? Okay, I'm looking down the list and I do not see anyone from the public that is wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7221. Okay, thank you. And I do have to ask if there is anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 7221. I don't see anyone from the public
 Wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 7221. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, then, the hearing on Bill 7221 is now, yes, Councilman Warner? I just want to make a comment once we got there. Oh, I thought you was trying to stop me before I closed the book. No, no, no. I'm sorry. I got to work too early. That's okay. So at this point, I am going to...
 close the public hearing on Bill 7221. So council members, you do wish to make a statement regarding 7221. Councilman Warner, you wish to make a statement? I do, I just want to thank the clerk's office. I know this is a lot of work. We're basically creating a whole new department here and this is just one smaller step
 and we'll kind of continue to make progress. And I'm excited to hear we're setting a meeting to review applications and soon get the applications out for the review board themselves later and figure out a budget and policies and all that that comes with it. So I just want to commend your team and thank you for all your work on it. Thank you.
 Is there any other council members wishing to make a statement regarding Bill 7221? Okay. I do not see anybody wishing to make a statement, so I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7221. Okay.
 I would like to make a motion that Bill 7221 be sent to the full Council with the recommendation. Second. Okay. Thank you. There has been a motion and it's been properly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Misgawski? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Williams?
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. What happened to Pastor Lee? I think his, let's see if I can get him. I'll see if I can contact him via the phone. I'll just move forward. President White. Aye. Okay. As of now, it's eight ayes. Thank you. Thank you. I am so sorry. Okay. Did you get my text?
 Yes, I'm so sorry. I was saying and it wasn't doing anything. I'm so sorry. OK, so did you hear the last motion? No, I didn't. OK, that the last motion was to a favorable move to full counsel for Bill 7221, which is the one for the CRB executive director. Is your vote I or nay?
 Aye. Okay. Now we have nine ayes. Thank you. Okay. We are now going to move on to Bill 7521. So, Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7521 a second reading? Yes.
 7521, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2021 of $123,530 from General Fund number 101,
 $308,000 from Parks and Recreation Fund number 201, $2,998,275 from the DCI Federal Grant Fund number 212, $200,000 from the Local Road and Street Fund number 251, $51,241 from the Human Rights Federal Grant Fund number 258.
 $386,146 from COVID-19 Response Fund number 264, $420,000 from Local Road and Bridge Grant numbers 265, $250,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund,
 $48,600 from the COPS More Grant Fund, number 295, $10,000 from the Consolidated Building Fund, number 600, and $6,990,000 from the Industrial Revolving Fund, number 754. Okay, thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Madam Chair. Earlier this evening, the Personnel and Finance Committee held a hearing on Bill 7521, the quarterly appropriations bill, and that bill passed out of the committee with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is the petitioner present? Please state your name and address for the record.
 Mr. Park. Yes, thank you. Thank you, Chairwoman Misgotsky. Dan Parker, City Controller, office is on the 12th floor of the County City Building. So here we have the first of the two normal quarterly budget adjustment bills. So this one is the additional appropriations requests for Council. As we talked about in committee this afternoon, the
 The overall amount of the appropriations request is fairly large. You can see it down here at the bottom at $11.7 million. But if you actually dig down into that number, about 10.7 million of that 11.7 million is what I would classify as budget cleanup types of items. So the bulk of it is $6.9 million, almost $7 million appropriated.
 for the loan portion of the RLF2 award, which was awarded from the EDA of the federal government. This just allows us to appropriate or to actually give out those loans to small businesses that were awarded from the government.
 And then the other large portion of it is the reappropriation of CDBG and ESG funds that we received in 2020 that were not yet spent as of the end of 2020. So this is money that we were allocated and will be reimbursed to the city and also was already appropriated in 2020. And we're just asking Council to reappropriate that.
 So that's about 10.7 of the 11.7 million is either administrative cleanup or supported by a new revenue source within the budget. Of the other million dollars, about $850,000 here in the middle is related to capital projects for, in this case, exclusively streets.
 The first appropriation of $200,000 and the last of $420,000 are related to cleaning up some final items from 2020 streets projects, either change orders or finalizing the community crossing grant we actually maximized.
 the utilization of that grant. So the state offers a match of up to a million dollars. So we maximize that by spending the full 2 million on streets in 2020. And so this just allows us to close out that 2020 grant. And then this middle appropriation of 250,000 is really in anticipation of the conversation that will be had at the next council meeting regarding the issuance of a bond.
 to fund streets projects, which we've talked about a few times with Council, both during the budget process for 2021 and then afterwards. And then I believe actually next week, the Public Works Committee has a meeting to discuss the projects funded from that. And then the
 the remaining portion of about 200,000 is up here at the top. The vast majority of that is related to the previous bill that you just heard Clark Jones talk about and the appropriation of some funding for the community police review office, both the salary of $65,000 for the director plus the benefits for that director and then a consulting engagement and some money for building out the office space for that director.
 um with that i'm happy to answer any questions council might have thank you mr parker uh council members do you have any um questions uh councilman uh troy warner
 Yes, thank you. Mr. Comptroller, you did such a great job this afternoon explaining the $6.5 million or $6.9 million in the revolving loan fund. Can you do that again for us for the folks that missed the earlier meeting and explain where that money is coming from and what that money is doing to you?
 Yes, absolutely. So this is money that the city of South Bend was awarded from the federal government to establish a second revolving loan fund. So the city has had an industrial revolving loan fund that we've managed for many years, several decades in fact, that gives loans, low interest loans to small businesses in the community and startup businesses in the community. And we manage those loans within the city.
 an additional award that allows us to actually almost double the corpus of those loans that we can give out. And the appropriation is just allowing us to actually go through the process of making those loans. Thank you, sir. Is there any other council members that would like to ask a question?
 Okay, seeing none, I'm going to move on to the public portion of the meeting. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7521? Excuse me. This is Dawn. I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 7521. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of 7521? I do see a hand.
 Actually, that's Councilmember Hammond's hand. But I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in opposition of Bill 7521.
 Okay, thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, I'm going to close the public portion on Bill 7521, and I will go back to the council members if they would like to make a statement. And Councilwoman Laurie Hammond, you would like to make a statement? Thank you. Mr. Parker, moving forward as we work toward the budget for 2022, am I correct
 the entire CRB budget will be laid out for that budget period
 for for 2022 is that yeah yes i i believe that's the intention and obviously um that that will be a big part of the 2022 budget process is to work with the administration with the clerk's office and obviously with council to determine the right budget for the entirety of the year hopefully we'll have a director at that time who can provide feedback as well um and and but yeah i believe that i believe that that is the intention that during the process it will establish the entirety of the budget for the year
 Great. Thank you. Is there any other council members that wish to make a statement regarding Bill 7521? If not, I would like to see if someone would like to make a motion regarding Bill 7521. I make a motion to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Bill 7521.
 Okay, there's been a motion. The motion in the bill has been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll for Bill 7521? Yes. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember Nesgatsky? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. We are going to move on to Bill 7621. Would you please give Bill 7621 a second reading? Yes. Bill 7621, Public Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for Budget Transfers for Various Departments Within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the Year 2021.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? There is, Madam Chair. Earlier this evening, the Personnel and Finance Committee held a public hearing on Bill 7621, the quarterly budget transfer bill, and the committee sends that bill to the council with a favorable recommendation. Okay. Thank you, Councilman Warner. The petitioner I see is present. Mr. Parker, if you could state your name and address for the record before...
 Yes, thank you Chair Niesgotski, Dan Parker, City Controller, Office on the 12th floor of the County City Building. As Clark Jones was reading, I realized that the title of this bill said it's for budget transfers for various departments, but it is this quarter only one single department and fairly straightforward. The Streets Department would like to move some money around to purchase a walk-behind paint machine. This does not increase or decrease the overall budget, but I'm happy to answer any questions that council members might have.
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Is there any questions from the council members on Bill 7621? Any questions? Okay. I don't see any questions from the council, so I'm going to go to the public hearing portion of the meeting. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7621? There is no one from the public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Okay.
 Thank you. Clerk Jones, is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 7621? There is no one present to speak from the public to speak in opposition of Bill 7621. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 7621 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make a statement regarding this Bill 7621?
 If no one wishes to make a statement, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7621. Chair, I'd like to move that we send Bill 7621 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Okay. There has been a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll for Bill 7621? Yes. Council Member Neskovsky? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones, and thank you, Mr. Parker. Okay, I will entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved.
 Second. Okay, it's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Thank you. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. President White. Aye. Aye.
 Nine ayes. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the poll. Clerk Jones, would you please give bill 72-21 a third reading? Yes.
 7221, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10749-20, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2021. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Sheila Neskoski, is there a recommendation
 from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 72-21. Yes, President White. Bill 72-21 was voted on as a favorable recommendation unanimously. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 72-21. I move for passage of Bill 76-21. Is there a second?
 Second. Thank you. We have a motion and it has been seconded. Claire Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. I just want to clarify that it's 72-21. And the roll is Councilmember Hammond, Vice President McBride, Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Brown.
 Council Member Nesgotsky. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 72-21 has passed. Claire Jones, will you please give Bill 75-21 a third reading? Yes. 75-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of Southland, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations,
 for the year 2021 of $123,530 from General Fund Number 101, $308,000 from Parks and Recreation Fund Number 201, $2,998,275 from the DCI Federal Grant Fund Number 212, $200,000 from the Local Road and Street Fund Number 251, $51,241
 From the Human Rights Federal Grant Fund, number 258, 386,146 from COVID-19 Response Fund, number 264, 420,000 from Local Road and Bridge Grant, number 265, 250,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund.
 $48,600 from the COPS More Grant Fund, number 295, $10,000 from the Consolidated Building Fund, number 600, and $6,990,000 from the Industrial Revolving Fund, number 754. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilor Mishula-Naskowski, is there a recommendation for this bill coming from the Committee of the Homes?
 Yes, President White. Bill 7521 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation and a unanimous vote. Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding Bill 75-21. I'd like to move for passage. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion that has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Council Member Lee? Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember Nesgatski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 75-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 76-21 a third reading? Yes.
 7621, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2021. Council Member Sheila Niskoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole?
 Yes, President White. Bill 7621 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation, and it was a unanimous vote. Thank you. Is there a motion regarding Bill 76-21? Motion for passage. Is there a second to that motion? We have a motion, and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis, Councilmember Lee, Councilmember Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Nesgotski. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond.
 Vice President McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 76-21 has passed. We're now moving into the resolution portion of our meeting. All bills that have been called as resolutions will be heard at this time. At this time, I would ask Clerk Jones to please read Resolution 21-06.
 2106, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as the intersection of Nims Parkway and Mayflower Road, South Bend, Indiana, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Clay's Candy. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, President White. Resolution Bill Number 21-06 was heard in Community Investment Committee this afternoon and is being sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Do we have a presenter? Yes, this is Dan Buckenmeier, Director of Business Development, and I think I was just given control. Thank you.
 Offices on the 14th floor of this building. I'm sorry, of the County City building. My home does not have a 14th floor. Yes, so we are thrilled to be here to present Clay's Candy and their plans for a relocation and expansion here in South Bend.
 And if it pleases the council, I'm going to present kind of jointly for 2106 and 2108, but then I'll just come back to the council
 the individual votes if that's all right. Mr. Buckenmeyer, I would have to entertain a motion from council members to hear Resolution 21-06 and 21-08 together for purpose of the public hearing. Right. Is there a motion? I make a motion to hear...
 Resolution 2106 and 2108 together for the purposes of the public hearing. However, the vote shall be separately done. Thank you, sir. Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. Senator Johnson, will you call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Neskowski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Clerk, before you would continue, Mr. Buckenmeyer, Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 21-08, please? Okay. 2108, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Penn,
 designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as intersection of Nip Parkway and Mayflower Road, South Bend, Indiana, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for GFC Holdings LLC. Thank you. Now, Mr. Buckmeyer. Yes, thank you. I think that will streamline things for us. So, Clay's Candy.
 was founded in a garage here in South Bend back in 1919. So they recently celebrated 100 years in our city.
 Jerome Clays, the grandfather of the current president and owner Greg Clays, who's going to join us in a moment, actually founded the company in that garage back in 102 years ago. So it's a it's a wonderful South Bend legacy company. I'm sure many of you are familiar with their their wide range of hard candies and all the flavors.
 their gourmet peanut brittle and of course the holiday staple of chocolate charlie. They have been located at 525 South Taylor, it's the building pictured to the right there, since 1941. So anyone who might not be immediately familiar with where that would be, if you imagine Four Winds Field, they're kind of right behind home plate and across the street if you will.
 So several decades at that location have been really kind of bursting out at the seams. They're landlocked. There's no room to grow or expand their plant, really, at that current location. And Clay's has been working with the city and others for several years now trying to find just the right location, which I think we finally found.
 confident we find the perfect location. They're asking for some assistance and the move and significant investment that they're making to head out to Nymphs Road, as was noted in 2106. So on Nymphs Road, and I'll show you a map in a few moments,
 Here are some renderings done by Panzeca, our local firm Panzeca, that have been working with Clay's on the design. For a 45,000 square foot building, this will nearly double the size of their current facility. And as we'll learn, it's also going to really have the opportunity to more than double their output.
 So about five acres, room to grow in the future as well, and lots of great space there. So that is the very high level on the personal property abatement that we are recommending. And then the personal property abatement commonly utilized for capital equipment,
 Oh, I forgot to mention the amount. There is a significant investment going into both property and building and land over nearly 6 million, $5,720,000 in that part of the investment. And then another 2.4 million in investment in new capital equipment. So lines for making the candy,
 Other elements like steam generators, dust collectors, syrup tanks, piping, and of course, warehousing elements like pallet racking and such. So very significant investment. When we look at the...
 Property side, again, as I promised, here's a map showing Nymphs Road and the tollway is right where they're located in the highlighted area there. Great tollway frontage, so we hope they'll get some signage out there and those 100,000 or so people that drive by every day will know where their Clay's Candy comes from here in South Bend.
 It's a nine-year phase-in on that real property abatement. They'll recognize the benefit of – and remember, these are all estimates. We don't know exactly where the assessment will fall when that project is finished and the assessor's team goes out there. But we estimate the benefit at about $780,000.
 It is a phase-in over those nine years, so they will pay a little bit more each year. So during the period of that phase-in, they'll pay about $400,000 in taxes. And we estimate that they will be level off then at about $132,000 a year post-abatement as the full taxable amount just on the property tax alone.
 It will, the ROI on what we have abated will turn in the 12th year. On the personal property side, on the right there, it's a standard five-year phase-in. The benefit or abatement recognized will be around $143,000. It is again a phase-in, so they'll pay a little bit more each year on those.
 about 27,000 during the course of the abatement and somewhere in the neighborhood of 30,000 a year post abatement and The ROI kicks in in the ninth year. So both of them about three years post abatement will be fully contributing With the payback. So again in total the two abatements I'm sorry the the the
 Private investment enabled by the abatements is over north of $8 million. 33, at least 33 new and retained jobs. We hold a lot of confidence. You know, as we've always said, we are very conservative about how many new jobs we talk about and have a feeling that once they start really kicking here and doubling their production, we're going to see more jobs than that. And then...
 And then an ongoing legacy here in South Bend of 100 plus years. They did look in other places. They did consider other spots, but South Bend is home. So with that, I'll pass it over to Mr. Clays to say a few words. Greg, if you don't mind giving your name and address and then sharing whatever I may have missed, please. Sure.
 Yes, thank you, Dan. And thank you council members to invite me into the council meeting and for the opportunity to speak with you. This is Greg Clays, Clays Candy. You want the office address? Or the first office address is here. It's 525 South Taylor Street, South Bend, Indiana.
 And we've been at this location since 1941 with one expansion at this current location.
 This is probably our current location is probably about our fourth building, but always moved into used buildings. So this huge project is the first of its kind for a brand new candy factory for us. So we're extremely excited, as you can well imagine, after a century of work.
 making candy and this building we think will help us get started here in the next century of making candy and for generations to come. And it will also offer some expansion room the way the building is going to be designed so that we can expand West or North in the future if needed be because we're landlocked here and.
 We've experienced landlocked and we don't want to be in that position again because our old fashioned hard candy business has grown and COVID has just made it go crazy. As far as more orders we can fill, we've probably got about a 20 week backlog, which is unheard of in our business. But the abatement is very important to us. Uh,
 because this is such a big project for our small business, but for growing and want to continue to grow. And we have to grow to be efficient, to compete in the United States. And also the foreign companies that make candy in Mexico, Canada, China that are coming into the United States duty free. And it'll help us.
 uh in the financing part of the project obviously to give us some time to get up and continue to grow and i'm sure we'll be adding more new jobs in the long term that's great greg we can stop there if you want and allow the council to open up for questions all right
 I'm going to open up. Thank you, Mr. Clay's for your presentation, as well as for your continued support and investment in our community. I'm going to open up for council members for questions, and this will be in regards to the two resolutions, Resolution 2106 and 2108. Council Member Henry Davis. Right. Mr. Buckenmeyer, are you still available? Yes, sir.
 Is this particular building in a TIF district? The new building? Yes, sir. Yes. In fact, both are. The old building and the new building. So both in River West TIF. Oh, okay. It extends over there. Yes, sir. Is there any idea of what happens when this property is vacated?
 Just to be clear, you're talking about the former property? The current one, well yeah, former. Right. Great question and I prepared for it. The existing location actually is, it's very interesting, the property that Clay's owns
 actually includes both the building that you see circled in red on the left and part of the parking lot for Four Winds Field on the right. So because of that, and as much as anything, because of the criticality of the city maintaining that consistency of having the parking space there and
 not having someone sneak in and grab that. We're going to, we've already have an agreement in place with plays to purchase the existing facility as well as that parking area. The parking area will be, now this is pending approval from redevelopment commission, but,
 This is our plan so that the parking area can be deeded back over to VPA, the park district, which owns the rest of the entire surrounding area around the ballpark. And then we will work to remarket and repurpose the building on the west side of Taylor Street. OK, my last question, and then I'd like a really quick comment. How much of your park is that parking lot for? Sure.
 That hasn't been determined yet. Again, that will go to Redevelopment Commission. Okay. Well, I'm just steady paying attention to where development happens. It's usually happening within these TIP districts that has been going on for a considerable amount of time.
 I just want to just put something in your ear and also on the council heart members hearts. We have to start looking at if there's any opportunities in the future of even probably tiffing. If we are only going to continue to grow in areas that are within TIF districts, we're going to hollow out the city. And that's just going to be the end of it.
 So I think that we have to really start paying attention to where these developments are happening at. And I get it. It's an incentive. But just because it is is an incentive doesn't mean that you get rid of the entire farm. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Council Member Davis. Council Member Kenneth Lee. Yes. Thank you, President White and Dan and Greg.
 We did have the opportunity to tour the candy facility. And Greg, can you just talk to everybody about, you know, they are literally using every inch of that building to produce candy and to produce taffy, and to produce candy.
 I'm sorry, it's not taffy. It's peanut brittle. You got to see peanut brittle. We got to have warm peanut brittle. It was amazing. Can you talk to them about, you know, why it's so important for this expansion as far as, like you said, your 20 weeks back ordered on stuff and how significant this is going to be for your workers and for the company? Well, it's very, very significant because...
 In our entire history, I've never gone through a period like COVID-19 as well as the year before 2019. And then this new equipment just won't fit in our existing building.
 It would have been great if I had a bigger building right here. I would have put the new equipment right in this building, but it literally won't fit because it's a second line. We have one line here, but we're going to have two lines so that we can double our capacity on the old-fashioned hard candies. And then the rest of our production and building is devoted to a lot of handcrafted things.
 type confections like the old fashioned peanut brittle and our old fashioned fudges that we make still
 handcrafted, hand cut, and then they are wrapped on wrapping machines, but they're still hand fed. And then our chocolate Charlie that we make, that's all handcrafted on tables. And we need more stainless steel tables to make these handcrafted kettle cook confections. And we don't have that room in this existing facilities.
 So it's imperative that we do something soon. And that's why we started looking, but we've been looking like Dan said for three years. Thank you, appreciate that response as well. Thank you, Council Member Lee. Council Members,
 Do you have any questions regarding the two resolutions that you would like to ask either Mr. Buckmeyer or the petitioner, Mr. Clays? I do not see any hands up. I'm going to now go to the puppet portion. Clerk Jones, I see a hand that just went up. Okay, it's Allison.
 Yes. Alison, please unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please. Is this for the public hearing portion? Yes. And then this, we're at the point that we're asking those who would want to speak in support of these two resolutions at this time. And I did see the hand of Alison. I'm actually to speak in opposition. Should I wait then? Yes, please.
 Okay. I'm going to ask one more time if there's anyone waiting to speak in support of Resolutions 2106 or 2108. Okay.
 I do not see anyone wishing to speak in support of 2106 or 2108. Thank you. I'll now go to the second portion of the public hearing. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? And I do know that Allison had raised her hand to speak on this portion of the public hearing. We do ask that you state your name and address.
 My name is Allison Mindsberg. I live at 2633 Arrowhead Drive. I certainly support Clay's Candy. I have some of their hard candies sitting in my kitchen right now. My concern is just in general with taking the area of Nips Parkway, which is well served by the toll road and has great frontage, and classifying that as an economic revitalization area.
 providing tax abatements on that, while then the city is proposing to purchase an existing tax generating building through TIF funds. And it seems that there's a
 Pattern of the city sometimes overpaying for instance a recent railroad line was purchased for over 60 that are for what came out to about $60,000 an acre and I'm not sure where the tax money is coming from for all of these Plans if we're providing abatements for some of the best locations in the city for development and
 Thank you, Ms. Allison. And we will go back to the petitioner and or Mr. Buckemeyer. They will have five minutes to respond to your question. And we call that a rebuttal. Before we go back, I want to make sure, Clerk Jones, is there anyone else present wishing to speak in opposition? President White, that exhausts our list.
 Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed. Mr. Buckenmeyer or Mr. Clays, would you like to respond? I'll jump in if you don't mind. This is Dan Buckenmeyer. I guess the tax abatement issue.
 I'm trying to zero in on the concern in terms of, yes, this is a NIMS road, a desirable spot for business, of course. That's why they want to be there. Right now, it is a vacant lot. I'd say greenfield, but it's covered in trees and mounds of dirt and so on. So a lot of work is going to go into making it buildable.
 It is not tax positive. It's probably, I don't know the exact number, but probably just a few, you know, if a thousand or so dollars a year in tax revenue. This project will, when complete, we estimate take that site up to $132,000 per year just in real tax terms.
 property tax revenue. Now, I'll juxtapose that a few ways. So presently, Mr. Clay's at his current location only paying about $7,000 a year in property taxes. So it's going to be a
 And I see that two ways. One is Mr. Clay's is going to make a $8 million investment in this new plant.
 in this new location, hire a bunch of new people, and to saddle him with a $130,000 tax bill immediately after, I would argue wouldn't be that responsible as a community for, you know, once we ask him to make that investment in our community. So, yeah.
 What the tax abatement does is it phases that in, it softens the blow, if you will, of that, gives him time to ramp up, pay off some of the bills on both the build of the location and the purchase of the materials. And it's important to note, even with the abatement, his property tax bill will be more with abatement on the new location
 than he pays in his current space in the second year. So he's still going to be paying taxes. The company will still be paying taxes. The city will be very much revenue positive on this.
 And we will in fact repurpose that other location and then we will have both locations tax positive. So it's really a win-win. We're thrilled to see Mr. Clays and the company invest at this level in South Bend, having chosen South Bend over Plymouth and Niles and other potential locations.
 They're going to continue, I mean, in a COVID environment to retain these jobs is also critically important. So it's, there are just almost more wins than I can, I could keep going on, but I'll stop there. Thank you, Mr. Bustamante. At this time, council members, do you have any comments before I would ask for a motion first regarding resolution 21-06?
 Councilman Kenneth Lee, followed by Councilmember Eli Wax. Yes, I would just like to say that again, Chocolate Charlie has been a favorite of our family for 40 years, ever since I can remember. It was great touring the facility, seeing how much they have improved.
 used every inch of the building and to where they have no other choice but to expand to see that they have a 20 week um um um back order on products and then he had even shared with us that uh
 He had turned down half a million dollars of business because they just could not physically produce it. So for him to go to for Clay's Candy to be in our community for over 100 years and then decide to expand and.
 double its capacity. It's a great South Bend story and that's what makes it very exciting for me is that there are so many great South Bend companies that have come and gone and so now that we're able to be in a position to help one continue into the next 100 years, I'm very excited about it and again
 It's just a great, great South Bend story that needs to be told and needs to be experienced by people. So thank you. The next council person that had their hands up and I'll call them in this order. Council Member Eli Wax, followed by Council Member Henry Davis and Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. And hopefully I acknowledge everyone at this time. Council Member Eli Wax.
 followed by Councilman Henry Davis, Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan, and Councilmember Troy Warner. Councilmember LaWax? Councilmember Wax? I guess I should turn my video back.
 I just wanted to thank you, Dan, and thank you, Mr. Clays. It always gives my heart joy to see South Bend companies being successful and appreciating their community and constantly giving back and wanting to make their growth here for, I think, as Mr. Clay said, for generations to come. So I just wanted to thank you for your investment, and I look forward to seeing the new factory when it's ready. Thank you. Councilman Henry Davis.
 thank you president white i am totally going to support this particular project as i said earlier about the tiff districts and the expansion um i i find it always odd that we really do a very good job of committing the companies to decide to move here or expand here or what have you and we we applaud the fact that we have these
 great incentives of a tax abatement and just so many other things that these companies get, private partnerships, private-public partnerships, whatever you want from the Tiffin District. But one thing I want to just, you know, point out really quick, our job, my job as a councilman is to make sure this city is expanding tax base, finding areas where we can like accumulate more taxes so that we can deliver better city services.
 Right now, the city is hemorrhaging money and also population with school closings. We're in an issue right now with the budget. I think everybody has been present during this past year. Talk about the amount of money that we're going to be losing, not only because of COVID, but because of where we were at before COVID hit. And just so many other things. And I think that we really have to start paying attention to our bottom line, not the company's.
 They're doing a great job. They have their accountants, they have their business plan, they have their partners at the bank. They're going to be fine. That's great. But if we do not start looking at the city the same way that the companies are looking at their books, we won't have a city. And so, again, I applaud Clay's Candy for their investment and their time in South Indiana. I would have loved to tour your business. You're in the second district. I'm the second district representative.
 Never got an invitation. That's fine. Hope I get an invitation to the next one. But at the end of the day, if we are not expanding our tax base, if we are not looking at the priority of ensuring more dollars and revenue coming into our city coffers, we're not doing anyone a service.
 No one. The taxpayers, the businesses, no one. We're not doing anyone a service. I yield. Thank you, Council Member Davis. Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan, followed by Council Member Troy Warner. Thank you, President White. Once again, thank you, Mr. Buckmeyer and Mr. Clays for your presentation. Mr. Clays, thank you.
 For your commitment to staying in South Bend in our community and for preparing our community for another 100 years of giving back. I was privileged to be able to speak with two of your employees.
 And I want to thank you for your commitment to a diverse workforce that you have there. My sense from talking to these two employees is that you have a very loyal workforce as well. One having worked there, a woman having worked there for 16 years, and a gentleman working there for 30 years, both who share that they enjoyed their work immensely. Thank you.
 and found it very satisfying. So I want to thank you for your commitment, for the amount of dollars you are investing in this property, and to expanding your company. And thank you for the future tax dollars that you'll be bringing into this community. We look forward to the company growing,
 having this second line and being able to meet the demand that you've seen over the past few years and to grow the company into the future. Thank you. Councilman Tor Warner.
 thank you president why i'll try not to uh uh kind of duplicate what's already been said but i i do want to just take a second and thank the clay's family mr clay's and the whole family for their dedication and their reinvestment to the community um
 You know, I kind of did some quick math, but it sounds like very shortly his property taxes are going to triple. So he's going to be making a major reinvestment back into the community. I think that, you know, as other people have said in my house, it's not Christmas or Easter or Thanksgiving or Election Day or New Year's Day or anything without.
 chocolate charlie and uh uh some clay's fudge so uh you know when you take a hard look at the numbers and a nose nonsense look at uh at what's happening here uh we've got an 8 million investment
 still within the city uh within the tiff district that is going to uh drastically increase the tax base um and then those tiff dollars can be recaptured and put back in and leveraged for projects uh it within that district um i think this project
 There's win, win, win, win in this project. It makes a ton of sense. And I'm very happy that the city can assist Clay's as they move on and continue their next 100 years. Thank you. Thank you. I do not see any other council member hands up or hand up. So we're now going to move back to resolution 21-06.
 and would like to entertain a motion regarding resolution 2106. I move for passage. I make a motion to send resolution 2106 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Oh no, I'm sorry, we're in resolution. We have resolution, yes. Sorry, I move for passage. Is there a second to that motion? Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll?
 Yes. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution.
 21-06 has been adopted. We'll entertain a motion regarding Resolution 21-08. I move for passage of Resolution 21-08. I second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Wax. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 21-08 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 21-11? And thank you, Mr. Clayes. You're more than happy to stay with us until the end of the meeting if you would like to.
 You're muted, Greg. Okay, well we'll move on to Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 21-11? Yes. 21-11, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, establishing an audit committee responsible for the certified public accountant selection procedures
 under Indiana Code 5-11-1-24.4. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report? Yes, earlier this evening, Madam President, the Personnel and Finance Committee held a hearing on Resolution 21-11. That comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Do we have a presenter? If so, state your name and address.
 Yes, thank you President White. Dan Parker, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor of the County City Building. And yes, so this resolution 21-11 is the culmination of what we first actually presented to the Personnel and Finance Committee about a week and a half or two weeks ago during their organizational meeting.
 With respect to the first step in the process that we would like to undertake towards hiring an independent private CPA firm to perform the city's annual financial audit, using a process that's fully described in state law in the law that that Clark Jones just read out the.
 The independent CPA firm, hiring an independent CPA firm would replace the current financial audit that is done by the Indiana State Board of Accounts. So every year we receive a financial statement audit from the State Board of Accounts, and we would essentially just hire a firm to perform the audit in their place. They would perform the audit in accordance with the guidelines established by the State Board. They would deliver the audit report to both the Common Council and to the State Board. So it would result in...
 not only the same level of oversight from the State Board, but actually an increased level of oversight because we would have an independent CPA firm that would be doing this instead of the State Board. A few weeks ago when we met with personnel and finance, we sort of talked through
 the reasons why we're doing this and some of the benefits that we expect to see as we move down this path if The audit committee comes together and actually recommends that we hire an independent firm Those are mainly efficiency and time savings as well as hiring a firm that really is used to dealing with a Entity that is as large and as complex as the city. If you think about the types of
 municipalities and other government entities that exist in Indiana were really not the norm, just given our size. We're the fourth largest city. We're one of the largest governments. We have a lot of funds. We have a lot of bonds. We do a lot of things that a lot of the smaller municipalities just don't do. And so the State Board of Accounts just were not their typical audit client. And so hiring an independent firm that is a little bit more
 experienced with organizations of our size is likely to see a little bit of efficiency and time savings, as well as a higher level of just oversight and a better check on me and my team as we put together our financial statements and making sure that those are presented fairly for our residents and for council.
 In terms of what this resolution actually does and what the process would be if we wanted to move down the road of hiring that independent firm, this resolution establishes the Audit Committee, which is required under state statute. This resolution also appoints two of the committee's three members. So the third member would be appointed by the mayor after the council establishes the committee and appoints their two members.
 And this committee's role would be very simply to establish the criteria that would be used to select the audit firm, to produce an RFP, to send out that RFP, solicit responses from various audit firms, and then evaluate those responses, and ultimately,
 make a recommendation back to council to either select an audit firm and engage in or negotiate with that firm to enter into a contract with them for the audit engagement or to not select
 say we don't think that this would be beneficial for the city. So this resolution that's in front of you now only allows us to actually go through the process of soliciting those proposals. It doesn't actually commit us to hiring an external firm. There would be, after the audit committee meets, establishes those criteria, receives the proposals, there would be another resolution that would come back with the audit committee's recommendation to say, you know, at that point, whether we wanted to hire an external firm.
 In terms of timing, we're hoping to get the committee together over the next several weeks.
 issue that RFP and then receive the proposals in the upcoming weeks and months. If we were to want to do this and actually select an external or a private firm and opt out of the State Board of Accounts audit, we would have to do that by June 30th of this year. So that is sort of our drop dead date in terms of timing if we want to move forward. So this is just, like I said, the first step in the process, but I am happy to answer any questions that any council member has.
 council members do you have any questions i do not see any hands up if not then we'll go to the public hearing portion clerk jones is there anyone waiting to speak in support of resolution 21-11 this is dawn from clerk's office i do not see i do not see anyone in the public expressing
 interest to speak in favor of 2111? Do you see anyone waiting to speak in opposition to Resolution 21-11? No, I do not see anyone waiting to speak in opposition of 2111. Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed.
 If Council Members do not have any comments at this time, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 21-11. I'd like to move that Bill 20, Resolution 21-11, move for passage. Is there a second to the motion? Second. Okay, we have a motion. It's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes.
 Council Member Neskotski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President Wright. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Resolution 21-11 has been adopted. We'll now go to bills on first reading. Prior to asking for first reading, I would be opposed to amend the agenda as has been outlined by Attorney Palmer. Mr. Palmer, would you like to just make some statements in regards to why we need to amend the agenda in terms of bills first reading?
 Yes, thank you, President White. In order to pass what is now 7921,
 we have to pass 7821 first. So the motion would be to amend the agenda to move 7821 ahead of 7921, both in the list for first reading, but also in the meeting, for the meeting two weeks from now for second and third readings. Thank you. Does someone like to make that motion?
 I make a motion to amend the agenda both for March 8th and for March 22nd, placing Bill 7921 after Bill 7821. Thank you. Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. All those in favor of the motion, Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan? Yes. Councilmember Hammond?
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 77-21 a first reading? Yes.
 7721, first reading on an alley vacation, north-south alley between North Mead Street and Eclipse Place running north of Westmore Street to East West Alley. Thank you. I would like to obtain a motion to send Bill 77-21 to public walks and property vacation from committee meeting second and third reading public hearing from March the 22nd. So moved.
 Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President White. Aye.
 Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you please give first reading to Bill 78-21? Yes.
 7821, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating the proceeds of the sale of certain real estate to the City of South Bend Building Corporation. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 78-21 to Personnel and Finance for committee, and second and third reading set for March 22nd. So moved.
 second we have a motion has been seconded clerk jones will you please call the role yes vice president mcbride aye council member davis council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax aye council member nizgatsky council member thomas morgan council member hammond president white aye
 Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you now give first reading to Bill 79-21? Yes. 79-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend,
 approving of a form lease with the City of South Bend Building Corporation, authorizing and directing the execution of the lease and the publication of a notice of its execution, authorizing other actions in connection therewith in all matters related thereto.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 79-21 to Personnel and Finance Committee, separate committee meeting, second and third reading, as well as public hearing for March 22nd. So moved. Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Chair Jones, please call the roll. Yes. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nosgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, you want to take a moment to catch your breath or? I'm good. I can keep going. Okay then. Will you please give first reading to Bill 80-21? Yes.
 8021, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, superseding and repealing ordinance number 10482-16 to establish updated internal control standards. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 80-21 to Personnel and Finance Committee for committee meeting second and third reading and public hearing for March the 22nd. So moved. Second.
 We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Nesgatski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Vice President Johnson. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you now give first reading to Bill 81-21? Yes. Thank you.
 8121, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 18, Article 1, Section 18-15 of the South Bend Municipal Code to clarify sidewalk accessibility for persons with disabilities near sidewalk cafes. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 81-21 to Public Works and Property
 um vacation for committee meeting second and third reading public hearing for March the 22nd so move second we have a motion it's been seconded clerk Jones you please call the roll yes council member Warner hi council member wax all right Council member nizdowski aye Council member Tomas Morgan aye Council member Hammond
 Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you please give first reading to Bill 82-21? Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 8221, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, repealing and replacing current Chapter 14.5 of the South Bend Municipal Code to address inclusive minority and women business enterprise development.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 82-21 to Personnel and Finance Committee for committee meeting for second and third reading public hearing for March 22, 2021. So moved. Okay, we have a motion. Is there a second to that motion? Second. Okay, we have a motion that has been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Okay.
 Councilmember Wax, Councilmember Nizgatsky, Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. We're now moving to unfinished business. Is there any unfinished business, Councilmembers?
 I do not see anyone. Councilmember Henry Davis. Yeah, I want to go back to the beginning of the meeting. I did speak with the members from Washington High School. They got their wires crossed with a meeting with the commissioners. And so language was the barrier. And so the dates in their mind became the 16th.
 And not today, but they are clear on what happened and what's going on. So they will be here for the next council meeting. Thank you so much. And that would be the March 22nd. Correct. Yes, ma'am. Thank you so much. We appreciate that update. Is there any new business council members, any council member, Rachel Thomas Morgan?
 Yes, President White. I'd just like to briefly report on the transition committee, transition team. To remind everyone, the transition team was charged to put together a timeline and a plan for moving into public meetings.
 The transition team comprises council members Troy Warner, Sharon McBride, myself, with Clerk Jones and Attorney Bob Palmer. We met on Friday, and the initial plan and timeline is that we would look to our first meeting in April, April 12th.
 to allow those to attend in person for those who feel comfortable, continue to allow those who want to meet virtually to do so, to pilot that in April, see how that goes, potentially to –
 to move into May with potential city heads or personnel coming to give presentations and then in the summer to allow the public. I will be. I'm finishing up some notes right now and then will be.
 Sending that along to the rest of the transition team just for a final look before we send that to the rest of the Council for some feedback. Obviously we have more details to spell out, but just wanted to share with you what that looks like at a high level.
 Thank you so much. We appreciate that update and we look forward to receiving the notes and the recommendations from the transition team. We'll now move to Claire Jones. Yes, I just wanted to go review some dates for the applicant screening for the CBC
 the CRB committee and I have four dates in mind and I would like for council members to review these dates and get back with me. That would be this coming Thursday which is March 11th from 4 to 6 as well as not in addition to but or Friday from 4 to 6.
 and that would be March 12th. Or we can go to the next week, which would be next Thursday from four to six, which is March 18th, and next Friday from four to six, which would be March 19th. So any one of those four dates, we will send you the applications this week, preferably tomorrow, and so that you can review them, and then we can have an executive session.
 Okay, and okay well, so you're asking council members to respond back to see if we are available for March 11th from 4 to 6, March 12th 4 to 6, 18th and 19th. Right, any one of those dates. I'm not asking for all four dates. Okay, and then this would be executive session. Yes. Okay. Okay, then thank you so much. Appreciate that. Is there any other
 Yes. Councilmember Chor-Warner, and then I'm sorry, followed by Councilmember Henry Davis. I think I saw your hand up too, Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Chor-Warner, he's muted.
 oh i'm sorry i i mr davis had his hand up first if you'd like to go you're more than welcome to go ahead troy my question okay thank you sir my question is for attorney palmer and regarding um what confidentiality there may be with these applications um that answer doesn't have to be given now but uh um i i would like to know that when we get the applications
 Council Member Warner, anything that takes place during an executive session would be confidential and not released to the public. So at this point, until we go beyond discussion at the executive session, it would remain confidential. Thank you. Thank you.
 Attorney Palmer, I'll go to Councilmember Henry Davis. I apologize. I didn't see your hand. It's fine. It happens. There is like two things that I want to bring up. It's three, actually. We just had a loss over here in the South Park Neighborhood Association. Our president, Elder Dennis Plump, transitioned. What?
 What? Yeah. And so I just wanted to, I mean, the only reason why I'm saying it in this public forum is because I know we've interfaced with him considerably as a council over the last several
 I just wanted to like notify everyone that, you know, that did happen. We have it's a it's a big loss. It's a huge loss. It breaks my heart. But, you know, we don't get it forever. So he did transition. And so just FYI. The next thing was like a segue. We were talking about getting back down council. I did send an email out to a few members of the council saying,
 and was asking about vaccinations. And I'm seeing that teachers are like getting vaccinated because the kids are coming back four days a week. I don't know how this can be worked out or how we should work it out, but our public service workers, you know, are just the same as some of these teachers. And I don't know if we have the capabilities and I think that we should investigate to get the same type of treatment
 so that all of us are vaccinated. So if we do choose to be back downtown, we don't have a problem. I saw the CDC today released a report that said if you have been vaccinated, you don't have to wear a mask nor do you have to like have that six feet social distancing requirement. But that means that you have to be vaccinated. And so if we get vaccinated, then we are
 somewhat back to normal. So I would, you know, push that off them to a higher level. I'll send another email out to see if, in fact, we could get some of the same priority treatment as the teachers have been getting, because we do need it because we deal with the public at a very high level. And if we're going to be open back up for business, we definitely will need it as well.
 My last thing is that I did send an email out yesterday because I had received a voicemail message that was a bit racist, very racist. I've become desensitized to some of these things because of the things that I've gone through my entire life. But I do recognize that when people do take the time out to do something like that, they're usually serious.
 And it could also go to a whole nother level that could be anything to be rating you verbally or trying to be violent towards you. I've been I've been a part of both scenes.
 So I did send it out to my council colleagues thinking I would get a response. I did speak with Lori and also President White about it. No one else seems to think that that was disgusting. But understand, you know,
 We do work public jobs that work public jobs. I'm not saying this because I am nervous or scary thing, but it would be great if we do recognize that these threats are out there. And we just we just finished watching the insurrection at our capital building in Washington, D.C. So we don't understand how serious this is there. We are clearly, you know,
 deaf and blind or we just don't care. So I hope that you know there will be some sensitivity put towards this and some priority as well and have a great evening. Thank you. Thank you as well. Councilwoman Lori Hammond followed by Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski.
 Thank you, President White. This is in relation to the vaccinations. I'm just wondering if anyone has reached out to Dr. Fox or to Dr. Bob at the health department to see if there is any way to move this forward. I know I personally have not, but I'm just wondering if anyone has.
 I'm not aware at this point, but I do know that there are other individuals within the city that have reached out to both those physicians. And we'll follow up with that as well. I know Councilwoman Sharon McBride, you've had some conversations in terms of working with the COVID committee. Yes, I did. Thank you.
 And I don't know if like with the law enforcement trying to see if there can be some priority. I did have some conversation to see where we would fall, but I know that things have been opening up for different demographics. And hopefully they are working toward to get the council vaccinated with some of the other essential workers.
 Thank you. I haven't heard anything specific about the council since then, but I did reach out to them. And I will follow up as well, working with you on that, as well as Councilman Henry Davis. Councilman Clark Jones, I think you had your hand up before Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Yes, I had my hand up because I had reached out to the Health Department as well, probably a couple of months ago to see as we opened up, could this office and council members receive their vaccine and I was told that because of the limited amount and maybe it's different now that they have approved more, but because of the limited amount they had to stick to.
 the eligibility of people according to their age and what's posted. Otherwise, they wouldn't have enough. But I can reach out again and see if they will make provisions for that again. But I just wanted you to know I had reached out a while ago. Thank you so much for that update. Councilmember Kenneth Lee, I did see your hand up. Yes. Thank you, President White. I just saw Dr. Bob today.
 um and asked him about it and uh for everyone that knows that uh if if you're if you're 50 you can get uh you can't get vaccinated now and he told me that probably by next week or by two weeks it'll be 40 so i'm still in the 40 group so uh well don't tell us please okay but um
 He said those that people that are in their 50s can get vaccinated now and that 40s will probably be next week or the week after. Thank you so much. I do not see anyone else who has their hand up. We'll now go to privilege on the floor. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under privilege on the floor? I do see one hand up.
 and that is wishing to speak under privilege of the floor, we do ask that you state your name and address and you have five minutes to speak on a subject that is not or has not been discussed on the agenda. And I see the first name is Kat. Will you please state your name and address, please? And you have five minutes. Hi, yes. It's Katherine Redding.
 It's 418 Lamont Terrace, South Bend, Indiana. And I just wanted to see if I could gain privy of the council and ask a question on that.
 committee structure, adding committee structure in regards to ad hoc under the Public Safety, Board of Public Safety regarding lead, lead awareness, lead outreach, lead testing, making a check and balance
 accountability structure for producing data on testing and as well as as well as
 uh, uh, lead abatements. Um, also I wanted to address singularly, um, Kenneth Lee, um, as well as, um, council member Tomas and Sheila, uh, Noskowski, um,
 I WANTED TO TOUCH BASE WITH YOU GUYS BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS, COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS REGARDING LEAD AND THE COMMUNITY WANTS TO KNOW BECAUSE YOUR NAMES WERE BROUGHT UP QUITE OFTEN. I'M AWARE THAT COUNCIL MEMBER PRESIDENT LEE IS ACTUALLY DOING SOME WORK WITH THE
 Heidi Bettinger and this was brought to my attention by Miss Bettinger and there was some discussions about.
 Councilmember Tomas as well as Muscowski. And I just wanted to be sure that we were not overworking ourselves with things that are already being done by council, current council members. I like to actually have a little bit
 IF WE COULD ENGAGE IN DIALECTS TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE IF WE COULD ENGAGE IN DIALECTS TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE IF WE COULD ENGAGE IN DIALECTS TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE CROSSING OUR T'S AND NOT CROSSING OUR T'S AND NOT CROSSING OUR T'S AND NOT IN OUR EYES AS WE BEGIN TO THINK IN OUR EYES AS WE BEGIN TO THINK IN OUR EYES AS WE BEGIN TO THINK ABOUT COMMUNITY SAFETY ABOUT COMMUNITY SAFETY ABOUT COMMUNITY SAFETY AND LEAD AWARENESS.
 JUST MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE ALL WORKING TOGETHER IN THIS PARTNERSHIP TO ACTUALLY SEE REAL CHANGE, LEGITIMATE CHANGE IN OUR COMMUNITIES. WE KNOW THAT CENSUS TRAC SINCE 19 HAS BEEN UNDERFUNDED
 When it comes to lead, they've been under tested and they're the most impoverished. So I'd like to extend the invitation to the Council to.
 FIRST AND FOREMOST, SEE IF THERE BE AT ALL ANY PURPOSE AND VALUE TO ADDING A COMMITTEE AD HOC ON TO FOR THE COMMISSION OR COMMISSION FOR REPORTING PUBLIC SAFETY. THAT WAY WE CAN MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE BEING INTENTIONAL THIS TIME AROUND WITH LED COMMITTEE
 um so yeah i'll i'll i'll leave that question open for council um and hopefully um yeah uh invitation for uh latest development and conversation and moving um this uh led this injustice uh
 Yeah, thank you, Miss Redney. And there have been a number of conversations in regards to the impact of lead. We did have a committee meeting in regards to that, so that I'm going to ask Council Member Lee, Kenneth Lee, as well as Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, as well as Rachel Thomas to to reach out to you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember Henry Davis. Yeah. I want to try to clarify some of that because I was on a phone call.
 because I was invited, and I told the group of people that were on the phone and on top of young lady from Notre Dame, I think Heidi is her name, I'm maybe getting it wrong, but I did announce to them that there was a way of pushing all this together and that was through an AHA committee that meets outside of the confines of the regular committee structure for purposes of defining actionable goals and points
 And I explained that to them so that they would understand that if this is going to be a community thing, that will probably be one of the better ways of getting it done. There was a report that was read from a young man. I can't remember his name right now because it's getting late for me. But he was able to pinpoint certain things that I had never even heard before.
 before about lead and where it was really at and just some things that were very educational to me and very fulfilling. And I just thought those things will be a very great starting point for anyone that is interested in eradicating lead here in this community. So I'm not sure how this is going to build, but I do know that the committee structure president allows or will give a,
 a claimant power to a ad hoc committee so it can be developed and so that those things can be worked on so that it will have a home instead of just like depending on this council member that council member this group outside this group or this group or this council person it gives it a life of its own so it can be organized and hopefully some outcomes are made yeah
 And if I can say this, currently there's no one working full-time on lead in the city.
 And actually, I believe her name is Liz, has just stepped into the position of pushing the grant hood applications through. But those applications do expire. So there has to be a streamlined process developed in order to see real change around lead. Thank you. Is there anyone else waiting on the privilege of the floor?
 I do not see anyone. No. If not, at this time, the March 8th meeting of the Common Council is adjourned. Thank you. Everybody have a good night. Good night, everyone. Good night. Good night, everyone. Bye-bye. Good night. Thanks, President White. Mm-hmm.