hello
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 I think that's the eyes.
 No, I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Good evening. I would like to call Monday, March 13th, 2023 council meeting to order. Mark Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. For audio quality. First of all, good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and address in the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input.
 For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time and the council president will call on you. And you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time we will have the invocation. Sue Kessum, thank you so much and welcome. Thank you. Sue Kessum, 4022 Kennedy Drive.
 What you see before you is a feather and a giveaway bag. I want to briefly explain the feather that's done as part of the Native American ceremonies. The four ribbons show the four races on Earth because they want to include everyone. So I'll begin. Aho!
 That's the greeting. I offer this invocation in honor of a local Native American longhouse. For over nine years, I studied with a local Cherokee elder. The prayer begins around a sacred fire with four medicines, which are sage, sweetgrass, cedar, and tobacco. Each person is smudged with burning sage to remove negative energies, which I won't do here. The smoke of the burning sage is gently wafted over each person with the feather.
 The four ribbons, which are red, yellow, black, and white, represent the color of the four races on earth and the four directions. The rattle or drum is a welcome for the ancestors to join in the gathering with the living. Everyone sits in a circle because everyone is equal. This is a talking feather. It's not a real eagle feather. It's a dyed feather. Since I'm not Native American, it would be illegal for me to own one.
 And should I find one in nature, I would turn it over to the longhouse. The blue jay feather, which represents the Cherokee elder who taught me, is also included on this. As you're holding the talking feather, please say something you are grateful for, a kindness you did for another person this week to make their lives better, or you may opt to stay silent. And rather than pass the feather around, I gave each of you a feather.
 Once you're done, just say aho. And so if any of you would like to do that, you're welcome to now if you'd like to participate. Okay. And I am grateful for this evening's meeting and for all of us to be here together. Thank you. I'm grateful for life. I'm grateful for peace. I'm grateful for understanding and cooperation. Okay. May we all know peace as one.
 My mother grew up on Koinonia Farms in Americus, Georgia, which was located on the Blackfoot land. My grandparents founded Habitat for Humanity there. The first Habitat houses were built on Koinonia, and I spent my summers there painting houses. We would often find arrowheads there. President Carter grew up in Plains, Georgia, which is just 12 miles away, which is also on Blackfoot land.
 His very first act of office as president was to lift the ban on Native Americans being able to speak their language and openly worship. I'd like you to think about this since this happened in 1976. Most of us in this room were alive when this oppression was finally lifted and the religious rights were restored.
 It's my hope this council will appreciate this invocation since we are all living on Native land, as evidenced by the many Indian names we have around us. As part of the oppression of our government, Native Americans were not allowed to own white man businesses. They were only allowed to profit from entertainment and gambling. Hence, we have the Four Winds Casino. Their children were taken away to government orphanages where they were not allowed to speak their native languages.
 Many of the children were abused and died in these orphanages. Some were adopted out, but not allowed to know they were Native American. At the end of this, I am passing out small bags known as the giveaways, and the Native culture teaches sharing. I hope your takeaway is respect, gratitude, kindness, sharing, inclusion, and peace. Aho. Thank you so much.
 I appreciate it. This time with the stands by the pledge of league. Thank you. Thank you. And to the Republic, Richard Staines, one nation, one time, in this world, with liberty and justice. Clark Jones, the roll call, please. Council, Council Member Davis. No, I saw him. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Watts. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Thank you.
 Council member Hammond. Present. Vice President Mokoski. Present. President McBride. Present. Ain't present right now, but I know Mr. Davis is here. There are no reports from the subcommittees. This time we'll turn over to special business. Clerk Jones, will you please give special resolution 2307 a reading. 2307, a special resolution of the Common Council and the citizens of the city of South Bend, Indiana.
 honoring Toy Vila for more than 36 years of exceptional and impactful work as a construction manager and land surveyor in our community, and for his quintessential leadership and teamwork as an employee of the city of South Bend. Thank you. Do we have presenters? Yes. Myself and Councilwoman White, would you like us to approach this podium, please? Thank you. Okay.
 Sheila Niesgotsky, 4942 Scenic Drive, South Bend, Indiana. Karen White, 1912 Melbourne Way, South Bend, Indiana. So we're going to read Bill number 2307, which is a special resolution number 5003-23.
 a special resolution on behalf of the South Bend Common Council and the citizens of South Bend honoring Toy Villa for more than 36 years of exceptional and impactful work as a construction manager and land surveyor in our community, and for his quintessential leadership and teamwork as an employee of the City of South Bend. Whereas Toy Villa has been a fair but
 firm presence in the city of South Bend, Indiana, through his involvement in engineering and surveying projects more than 36 years, and whereas Torrey Professional Associations recognized participation include the American Society of Civic Engineers, the American Public Works
 Association and several certifications with the Indiana Department of Transportation. And whereas Torres Careers...
 has included positions not only in the public sector with the City of South Bend but also in the private sector with Clyde Williams and Associates where he provided the survey for the generations drive development and whereas the list of completed projects accomplish tasks and over
 All public service Torrey has passionately fulfilled bled into every square foot of the city. The most observable are the two-way convergence projects
 Studebaker Demo, City Fire Stations, Kennedy Park Green Infrastructure, Kovaleski Stadium, now Four Winds, fiber-optic signal connect with Metronet, and the remodel and rehabilitation of the Morris Performing Arts Center. Ann?
 And whereas, TOI was also instrumental in the redevelopment of several underutilized areas, leading to economic growth and job opportunities that draw the growing population and tourism of South Bend. These developments include, but are not limited to, the Howard Park reconstruction, the Football Hall of Fame, downtown transportation facility,
 to First Source and DoubleTree, NIMPS Parkway, Ignition Park, Catalyst 1 and 2, Fredrickson Park, Multipurpose Trails Along the River, Cafe Navarre, Ireland, and South Michigan Street Shopping Centers, and the Memorial Hospital Campus.
 And whereas TOI facilitated key steps for environmental remediation, making the redevelopments possible, including leachate and methane control systems, cleanup and industrial debris, brownfield mitigation, and providing the transparency necessary for protecting public health.
 Whereas, while Toy was not spending time with his family or working on his golf game, he sat on the South Bend Heritage Board and the Special Events Committee, in addition to volunteering countless Saturdays to contribute labor and guidance to city projects, Back the Bend, and equivalent city programs.
 And whereas the city engineer, Kara Boyles, expressed, it is hard to imagine our team without Toy, as he has been such an integral part of our success. His dedication, dependability, and expertise have been invaluable, and he has truly been a right hand to me. Toy's presence and contributions will be deeply missed.
 and we wish him all the best in his future endeavors. Now, therefore, be resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1.
 The South Bend Common Council proudly honors and thanks Choi for his 36 years of exceptional and impactful work as a construction manager and a land surveyor in our community, and for his quintessential leadership and teamwork as an employee of the City of South Bend. Section 2. The Common Council also recognizes
 and thanks Tori's wife, Diane, and children, Matthew, Adam, Justice, Manny, and Nick, for sharing Tori with the community, even in the times they would have preferred him to be home. The Common Council wishes Tori and Diane all the best in their retirement. Section 3.
 This resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the Mayor signed this day.
 which was the 27th of February, but we had to change that because he was not available. So sign this day, the 13th of March, 2023. It is our honor to stand before you to share this resolution for a employee, but not an employee, a servant who has served this community with distinction. It's time, Floyd.
 So I would just come and give some more. Kara, would you like to say a few words? Just in here. All right. So thank you, members of the council, all of our colleagues and friends who are here tonight. Kara Boyles, city engineer, 13th floor.
 First, I want to thank all of you, especially Councilwoman Nizgatsky and Councilwoman White for sponsoring this bill, Council Attorney Bob Palmer for his assistance as well, and our project engineer, Becca Plants, for her contributions and her insights that made this resolution possible. Today is bittersweet as we gather to celebrate your retirement. You're one of our most valued city employees. After 36 years of dedicated service to our city,
 Our beloved construction manager has now retired. Throughout his tenure, Toy has been a cornerstone public servant to our community. His passion for his work, his unwavering commitment to the people of our city has been truly exceptional. His knowledge and expertise in construction management have been invaluable to our team, and his contributions have left an indelible mark on our city.
 In his own words, Toy described his role with the city as his dream job. And when asked what his least favorite project was, he said he loved every single project he's worked on. And I wish there was a way I could bottle up this passion. But it's not just his skills and his knowledge that we will miss. He is an amazing person with a kind heart and a generous spirit. His warmth, empathy and willingness to help have endeared him to all of us.
 and it's no surprise that everyone loves Toy. Toy's dedication to his job and his community has been nothing short of inspirational. He's worked tirelessly to ensure our city's infrastructure is safe, reliable, and accessible to all. He has often put in many extra hours and willingly volunteered his time, even when he's not asked, for the betterment of our city. He was always willing to lend a helping hand and would say yes to any task or project that needed his expertise.
 His unwavering commitment to his work and his community is a testament to his character and a model for us all. As he moves on to the next chapter of his life, I want him to know how much he will be missed. His contributions to our city will be felt for years to come, and his legacy will continue to inspire us. Tonight, we are here to say thank you. Thank you for your hard work, your dedication, your unwavering commitment to our city and its people. You have truly made a difference, and we're all better for having known you.
 Also, we promised to pay sample this year, so now that you don't work for us anymore. But we wish you all the best in your retirement, and we hope that you will stay in touch. Your presence will be missed, but your impact will never be forgotten. So congratulations. Toye, would you like to make any comments?
 yeah i wish to thank the council for this resolution and also my fellow co-workers who i worked with so many years like i've enjoyed every minute of my time with the city and i've always said that i loved it and i still do i always look for the challenges every day there was a new challenge it was not like you came to work and do the same dull thing every day there was always something that cropped up and we had to put you know take care of that situation but that's what made me come to work every day so i really want to thank you all for this resolution
 Thank you. Well, I want to say thank you for your service. I've been knowing you for many years as a colleague and a friend, and I really appreciate you are a class act and your professionalism and you're willing to work with anybody and people and follow up was like none other. So I really, really congratulate you and salute you for your retirement. And you definitely will be missed. Thank you. Appreciate that. Any other counsel? Counsel Davis.
 I did when I found out you could play softball. Many years ago. Yeah, you were good then, man. And I tried to be good, but you guys are really doing it out there. And then I thought that you were extra cool when I found out you buy your fish from the same place I buy mine from on Fridays. So I know you're the man. But no, actually, I've had quite a time with you. Every time I call, you're available.
 didn't matter what time it was when it was but you were always on the spot i appreciate you i appreciate your service to the city i wish there could be more that we could do for you you gave so many years and i and i'm in i'm in debt to you thank you thank you we're all are appreciate that thank you i would like to add my thank you and wish you and your family lots of joy and happiness in your retirement thank you thank you for your service um i i
 don't believe we've had much opportunity to work together in my few years here but um your reputation precede yourself and it's clear that you're not somebody who's going to drift off into the sunset and i'm sure that you will continue to give back to the community in many ways and i want to wish you many years of health and happiness and success in all your future endeavors thank you
 Yes, I just want to say that, Toy, I've watched you for many years. I've been on the board for the South Bend Heritage Foundation and just your knowledge and your experience.
 your way of getting things accomplished and how much people respect and listen to you has really meant a lot to me as a younger man watching you. You have the personality that we need to mimic.
 You probably didn't even know that people were watching you the way that we were watching you. For people to stay at a job for 36 years is unheard of. And to say as you're leaving, I loved every minute of it, that's even more remarkable. But most importantly, what people don't understand, when you have a passion and you love something so much that you want to see it done in excellence...
 Sometimes our family may not get all of our attention. So I think we should take a moment and give his wife and family a hand for lending him to us. And now you're going to have to be with them 24 hours a day and see how that work out. But thank you. Thank you so much for being a great community leader. God bless you.
 I think everyone has already said it, but I just extend my gratitude to you. Thank you for being such an exemplar public servant to our community.
 When you hear the name Toy Villa, it just gives you comfort and assurance that the job is being done well and we are cared for. So thank you very much for all the years and devotion that you've given to our city. May God speed.
 eat much to say thank you and uh enjoy retirement and golf and uh sunny days and uh and our city owes you a great debt thank you i appreciate that thank you for your kind comments appreciate it thank you this time i will open it up um to see if there's any comments from the public with that being said thank you so much thank you for your service again thank you council uh the sponsors we appreciate we're going to take a picture
 And I believe that you have to make a motion to accept the resolution. If anybody there, it has been moved in second and clerk Jones, the role, please. Council member Davis, council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member wax. Aye. Council member white. Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. For a picture? Yeah, and Clerk Jones, do we have the resolutions? Are they ready yet for so he can do the picture? I can go and check while you all take Okay, wonderful. Thank you. Okay. I think I signed them last week. I think I signed them.
 I would now like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. Second. The motion is seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion is carried. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoned ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untied. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 01-23 a second reading?
 0-1-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition for special exception for the property located at 2621 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46615, Councilmanic District No. 3 in the City of South Bend. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, there is, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee as a whole with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Good evening, Angela Smith, zoning administrator with the City of South Bend. The office is located on the 14th floor of this building. The property is located at 2621 Mishawaka Avenue, right near the intersection of 27th and Mishawaka. It used to be... Can I go through?
 It used to be the Family Pet Health Center for many years. As you can see, a very kind of closed-in, focused building. The property owners are looking to open it up and make it a restaurant on Mishawaka Avenue. They are primarily starting with ice cream, I believe, but are looking to expand other things. I believe I already heard expansion plans earlier in front of the Board of Zoning Appeals last week, so we're excited to hear about that.
 uh mishawaka Avenue is a mix of commercial uses and a range from single family to neighborhood center uses and all the services in between this property will fit in well with the mishawaka Avenue businesses and this comes to you from the board of zoning appeals with a favorable recommendation I'd be happy to answer any questions and the petitioners here as well would you like to have anything to say okay I'm already
 I don't know. Council members, would you have any questions for the petitioners? What district is this going in again? I'm just joking. It's my district. Welcome to the third district. Anyone else at this time? We'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 0-01-23?
 There is no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest in speaking in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, public hearing on Bill 01-23 is now closed. Council Members, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill?
 I should have made it my question, but it won't be to the petitioners, to the zoner or the zoning representative. How are you doing? Good. How are you? I'm doing well. I was just thinking, I was just talking to my counterpart to my left, and I said that Mishawaka Avenue, I love Mishawaka Avenue. I like the corridor. Are there any new design specs for that area? Mishawaka Avenue is a great investment, but it's dated. And I was wondering...
 If we have started working on that sort of like thing, I believe that River Park is one of the neighborhood plans that's being worked on right now by the planning team. OK, that would include Mishawaka Avenue. And so I know that there is work being done. As always, we work hard with the Vibrant Places grant that was released.
 And so I know there are several businesses on Mishawaka Avenue have reached out to us about the Vibrant Places grant that the city's holding that helps with facade improvements and activation of the business front. In fact, I've been touting it hard to these petitioners. So we always look forward to when businesses take advantage of that. As you've seen with Western Avenue, that can have a real impact on the whole corridor as a collective. So we expect to see some good improvements there in the next few years.
 Absolutely. And I guess I'm glad that Western Avenue is a beacon of hope for you. I just really want to know about the design specs being an internal conversation with, you know, the plan. You don't have to answer that. It's just getting started. So remember that for me. Well, just remember that for me. Design specs for buildings. OK. All right. I will now entertain a motion of Garden Bill 01-23.
 Move that we send it to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. It has been motion and second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 All right. Bill 01-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. All right. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 05-23 a second reading?
 Public hearing 0523, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. The first street to be vacated is that part of Old Bartlett Street lying south of the New Bartlett Street roundabout between Michigan Avenue to the east and the vacated section of Main Street to the west. The second street to be vacated is that part of Old Bartlett Street lying south of the New Bartlett Street for roundabout lying last.
 lying east of Michigan Street and west of St. Joseph Street. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. This was heard in the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee this afternoon. It was given a no recommendation as there was not a petitioner present to present the bill. Attorney Palmer, is there a petitioner here today? All right. Come on in. Come on up.
 I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. My name is Bob Hyden. I work for Jones, Peachtree, Urfenske, 325 South Lafayette. I'm here on behalf of Memorial Hospital Beacon. This is kind of a last piece of the Bartlett Street roundabout that was completed in 2015 and this task never got completed and the transfer of property never
 happen between the right of way and the beacon property with the construction going on at the beacon for the tower plans. There's some AEP work that needs done and this, excuse me, for the easements needed for that, the property needs to be transferred back to the hospital so they can get the proper easements in place as part of the, so that it's not city property anymore. It's now memorial property. So council members, do you have any questions?
 It's pretty simple. At this time, we'll go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 05-23? There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 05-23. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 05-23.
 Bill 05-23 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? If not, I will entertain a motion regarding Bill 05-23. Make a motion to send 05-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. 05-23.
 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 06-23 a second reading? 0623, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending maximum salary and wage of executive assistant director of special projects for the City Clerk of South Bend, Indiana, for the calendar year 2023. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard this afternoon in Personnel and Finance and was sent to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Dawn Jones, city clerk, fourth floor, officers on the fourth floor of the county city building. I'm asking for this addition or 3500 to go towards the cap for this position to make the position more attractive when advertising it so that we can get someone with the skill set that's necessary for this position. Okay. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner?
 Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Thank you. Dawn, did you do a just kind of a research or a search to see what the average wage for such a position is bringing in Indiana? Yes, I did a research for that and it varies, you know, and then I also go by the position has been posted and I go by the
 the people or the applicants. And I look at the skill set of the applicants and the skill set that we wanted, we were not getting. So that's why we had asked for additional funding for this.
 Is there any other council members that council vice president Naskowski? Thank you, chair. Yeah. I had asked Mr. Willis about the hiring bonus because it was stated earlier that, I mean, I, I, I understand needing to get your wages up so that you can hire, hire talented people. But if we're going to raise this to 49, 466, I mean,
 I just had a question about the $4,000 hiring bonus, because that means that this just turned into like a $7,000, I believe, or $8,000 increase. So could you give me some background on if that is something that's in all of the salary ordinances, just for our knowledge? Not all the salary ordinances, but for the clerk's salary ordinance, it is at her discretion to offer a hiring bonus up to $4,000. All right. Thank you.
 Any other council members? If not, I'll let we'll go to the public hearing portion of this. Clark Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 06-23? There's no one from the public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition?
 There's no one virtually or I don't see present that is wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 06-23 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements at all? If not, I'd like to entertain a motion. I make a motion to send Bill 06-23 to the council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There has been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Watts.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 06-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 08-23 a second reading?
 08-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position and amend the maximum salaries of
 to existing full-time positions. All right, is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in a personal and finance committee and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. As the petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Kyle Willis, city controller, 12th floor county city builder.
 Bill 8-23 seeks to establish the new four-time position for city attorney. Currently, the
 the city attorney now is part-time will be retiring soon so the new position will be a full-time position the amending salaries salary caps were for the diversity and inclusion officer and the executive director of human rights that was to give their salary levels in line with other city leadership salaries and also to be comparable to other cities well with the same position
 all right council members do you have any questions Councilwoman Lori Hammett thank you um I did research Indiana and the standard salary for this type of position based on um the job description that I received and this surprisingly is below most of what I saw
 So I'm absolutely in favor of raising it. I think we need a qualified candidate for predominantly the diversity compliance officer. The concern is this has been kind of a hot topic conversation department. And I'm wondering if we have plans in place of putting some additional oversight
 on this particular position to make sure that it just handles a lot of the grant dollars that go out and those types of decision making.
 spending of dollars has come before us with a lot of questions. So I'm wondering about the oversight for that position. Does that fall? That falls under Caleb does it not? It falls under Senator Kennedy with legal. I'll ask her to speak to it. For diversity inclusion. Sorry, it's mayor, the mayor. That's directly under the mayor. Yes.
 All right. Any other council members or good evening, council members, Caleb Bauer, executive director of community investment. Yeah. Just wanted to clarify that that position does not report to myself and it's not part of community investment. All right. Any other council members like having questions? Yes. Council woman, Rachel Thomas Morgan. Is there that position is posted. Is that correct? And the diversity and inclusion officer is,
 correct okay thank you i have a question sir councilman um davis yes sir thank you for your presentation sir um over the last probably uh maybe a year or so there have been a number of surveys being ran and what are our residents saying about the services that we're delivering to them do you know anything about
 Like city services? Yes, sir. I'm not aware of any surveys that have been conducted. No? I'm not. I was under the impression that we had city service, like a survey at some point. I'm off. No? Nope. Somebody? Okay, well, my fault. I know we asked for one. We asked for one? Is that what that was? Okay. That's why I'm asking the question. Thank you, Sharon. I am particularly interested in what...
 what residents are saying about the services that we are rendering. There's a turnover rate, right? In our city departments. And I think we're,
 Two times the national average, like 24%, if I remember correctly. I think the national average was like 12%. And so we keep raising salaries. You keep saying that this thing is going to be sustainable. And this is not to you. I'm not laying in such a porch. I'm not. But we do these things over and over again, and we continue to get less results out of the departments that we are funding. So internally, there has to be some mechanism that's kind of off.
 So I think a survey probably would do us well in knowing what positions are doing what unless your department does that itself but I really believe that you know the discussion with the constituency base the residents would be awesome for our city um because it just seems like we keep taking money and throwing the money at the problem and I don't think the problem is the money I think it's something else yeah so something I've definitely looked into I think um
 So the IT department may have had this survey conducted. So I'll look into it. Please do. I think it teaches all something. Yeah. All right. Anyone else? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public that is wishing to speak in favor of Bill 08-23? There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one present wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 08-23 is now closed. Council members, if you'd like to make any other comments. Hold on. Mr. Wax won't talk. This is time to make comments.
 Okay, so I'm just going to reiterate my comments from earlier. I'm okay with the city attorney position. I think that makes sense. I'm just not ready to support an increase to the diversity compliance inclusion officer and the human rights position. I think especially with the diversity officer position, I think that we've been expressed by others.
 There's a real confusion as far as the role. It's not clear. It's been a dissatisfactory result so far from that office and I don't think the solution is to throw more money as opposed to try to figure out what we need to do, what the goals are, how we're going to accomplish those. And I don't think just throwing money at it is the solution.
 And therefore, I would support stripping out the other two positions and going forward with the city attorney position. And to that end, I make a motion to amend the bill to remove the two changes for the second and third position while retaining just the new city attorney position. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member White.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgowski. Nay. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Nay. Councilmember Warner. Nay. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Nay. Five nays, four ayes. I make a motion to send Bill 823 forward to full council with favorable recommendation. Second.
 All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Nay. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Five ayes and four nays. All right. Um.
 Bill 08-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 09-23 a second reading? 0923, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend for the year 2023. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, this was heard this afternoon in Personnel and Finance, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? And he is. And I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us.
 kyle willis uh state controller uh 12th floor county state of building uh bill 9-23 uh seeks to transfer funds within the venture parks and arts budget uh there was a classification error uh in in the 20 in the budget process so we're just seeking to just correct that and have the funds placed in the correct fund for venture parks and arts uh council members do you have any questions for the petitioner you know we talked about this and committee is just a
 something put in the wrong place. Yeah, I mean, you know, with these, with the budget spreadsheets, hundreds, maybe even thousands of lines, I mean, I think it's bound to happen at some point. You just, you hate that it does, that it will happen at some point. All right, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 09-23? There's no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 09-23.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 09-23 is now closed. Councilmembers, would you like to make any statements? Yeah, I would like to say that's a phenomenal effort that you're catching it.
 because you have to go back through those sheets and some of those math equations to figure that out so i think it's it's exceptional that you found that human error happens all the time yeah it does that's the plan there i think i appreciate the ddfs that uh that work on these uh budgets you know you're around and catch these things is there anyone else that like this make any comments if not i will now entertain a motion second
 Clerk Jones, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Okay. Bill 09-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Clerk Jones, would you give, first of all, we got a vote to accept a substitute of 10-23. So moved. Second. All right, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Excuse me. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right, now that we've accepted it, Clerk Jones, would you give Substitute Bill 10-23 a second reading?
 10-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2023 of $729,545 from the General Fund 101, $255,785 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 201, $15,000 from the
 Gift Donation and Bequest Fund, number 217, $449,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, number 220, $80,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222, $41,000 from the Code Enforcement Fund, number 230, $40,000 from the Police Federal Drug Enforcement Fund, number 299.
 $34,895 from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area Fund, number 413. $800,000 from the Morris Performing Arts Center Capital Fund, number 416. $30,000 from the 2017 Parks Bond Capital Fund, number 471. $551,957 from the Consolidated Building Fund, number 600.
 $5,000 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601. $75,000 from the Solid Waste Capital Fund, number 611. And $150,000 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance committee this afternoon, and it was given a no recommendation. The committee needed some questions answered in reference to the $250,000 appropriation. All right. As the petitioner president, I ask that you give your name and your address for the fourth time tonight. Kyle Willis, City Controller, 12th floor, County City Building.
 This bill or first off, do you want me to address the 250 first or. You can. Yeah, you can. Okay. The 250,000 that was that was discussed earlier is actually I misspoke in the committee meeting. I spoke that it was new, a new ask, but it's not new appropriation. It is and it was an existing appropriation back from 2019, I think with a larger pot of money.
 And as the years went forward, that balance continued to roll forward. It was those funds were actually used in a housing housing grant similar to what is being asked to be applied with currently, which is the housing new housing construction grant that that's being funded with ARP funds. So this isn't new money. This is money that was already existing. It it lapsed last year, so the money
 came back to the general fund. So when that happened, I mean, DCI called it and asking for us to reappropriate those funds to use with the ARP program. So was that the $250,000 money that was given to Neighborhood Association to develop a duplex? And
 It was earmarked for that, but it didn't. Not sure that I would defer to Caleb Bauer, who's a director Bauer, who's online, who could speak to that.
 Good evening, Council Members. Caleb Bauer, Executive Director of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor. I apologize, I wasn't able to make it to committee this afternoon. I was traveling. But yes, so those funds were committed to a neighborhood association for housing development, and so they had been encumbered in a contract that
 that originated in 2019. We're still hopefully working with that neighborhood association, and you know, I think it's been a challenge for them to move forward with a project, but what we were hoping was as part of our ARP implementation and the $2.5 million in housing financing funds that were appropriated, we put out an RFP that
 seeking proposals to build new single-family homes and potentially multi-family homes as well. And we received six proposals requesting over $4 million, so more than the funds made available as part of that ARP appropriation. So we were looking at existing funds for housing development to see was there any way for those to be redeployed on projects that are ready to move forward,
 And then we could continue to work with the neighborhood association, potentially come back in the future when they're ready for completing a project. All right. That's what I thought it was when when I.
 earlier when we heard that number, it registered in my mind. Okay. All right. Any any other things you want to make a presentation? The new new additional new additional appropriations for 2023. There's appropriations for professional services to prepare 2022 financial reports. Code enforcement has appropriations for new office cubicles.
 There's a revenue sharing payment owed to the county per interlocal agreement that's in place with St. Joseph County. Also, there's for Venture Parks and Arts, there's an appropriation there for AIMS equipment to better handle parking tickets with the Office of Violations Bureau.
 Then there's also a new appropriation for Public Works. They have some capital equipment that I think needs to be purchased there. Then there's additional purchases that are supported by grants or revenues outside of our structural revenues. Police have capital, supplies, and I think a vehicle purchase that will be reimbursed either by federal or state grants. And then there's a...
 So the appropriation for community investments to it was to sorry, fund stipends for climate climate action ambassadors that reach out to the community to get their responses and to help update their ongoing climate climate action plan with the Office of Sustainability.
 and then the the remaining uh reappropriations for uh majority of is for venture parks and arts projects that needed uh funding that needs to be re that was appropriated in 2022 needs to be reappropriated today or not today but for 2023 um and there's a
 public works asking there for uh i think a vehicle purchase and some more capital equipment and then there's a project with central services uh for parking lot desks that will help alleviate the flooding and um cars and vehicles getting stuck on their property over there all right council members do you have any questions for the petitioner
 Councilman Davis. Thank you, sir. What neighborhood, I didn't hear what neighborhood association we're referring to about the 200. I think it's Far Northwest. Far Northwest. Far Northwest. And what's preventing them from getting the support that they're looking for? Well, they haven't been able to get the development together. They were supposed to develop it and
 they haven't been able to get it but they are going to continue to work on it sure there is a reason why that's what i'm asking what was that they don't have enough funds to cap capture a developer or uh they can't pay for services there's a problem with it and executing it what is that problem that is a caleb bauer question um yeah i think it you know
 Housing development can be challenging. Finding a home builder that's ready to move forward with new construction, developing construction plans and so on and so forth. And so I think those have been challenges that the association has faced. Again, like I said, we're continuing to work with them and when they have a project that's ready to move forward, I think we'll be in a position to deploy funds potentially from other sources.
 to support them. So it's not a matter of taking the funds away. It's a matter of we have projects that are ready to move forward and we're hoping to fund those. We'll continue to work with the neighborhood association on capacity building and making sure that their duplex project can move forward in the future too. So I agree with you.
 But I think what I'm trying to get at is how do we make that happen? I like their project. I like the fact that they're building inside of areas that need, that are begging for that sort of development. What is it that the city can do to support, again, go back to my words, support the development? Do we need to change some legislation for water hookups?
 Do we need to make sure? I mean, how do we make that happen? Are we having a discussion or are we just moving along? I mean, how do we incentivize them building within their own neighborhood? I think that that's awesome. I think those are good.
 Oh, sorry, Kayla. Go ahead. I was saying, I think those are great points, Councilman. One piece, you know, after this contract was signed in 2020, as the Neighborhood Association was working through the process, we did engage as part of the –
 incremental developers alliance, we did engage with consultants that have worked with the neighborhood association to assist them as they move through the development process. So those consultants have been paid with city funds to help provide that guidance. I think it is challenging to go for any organization to build their first home. I think 466 works a great CDC in our community.
 um if we talked to pastor taylor i think it was something like four or five years after the group's existence before their first home was completed so we know that it takes a time energy and commitment and and we're grateful for that uh from the far northwest neighborhood association and and we'll continue to work with them into the future
 Sure. I'm not asking for an answer. I'm not because clearly no one wants to answer the question. If we have consultants that's working with them, then they know what the problem is. I'm asking for that answer. Just not tell me about or theorize that they're going through a problem. I know they're going through a problem. That is clear. What is the problem? Thank you. Like I said before, the problem is not having a home builder lined up to begin the construction of the home. So we can't help them with that?
 We can't help him with that. I'm sure we can incentivize a home builder to come in there. The funds are used to incentivize the developer to build the home. Absolutely. But there's costs that the home builder has to incur to build a home. So his margin of profit gets smaller as it relates to building within the city. I said don't answer because I can keep going with this. Okay, I won't answer. Well, thank you. Yes. Yes, Councilwoman Gomez-Morgan.
 I think what we've seen over the past couple of years is a suite of incentives that we've put together as a city to help to incent vacant land infill. And so the reappropriation, if you will, of the $250,000 that's being requested here is really just to support that ongoing effort. Is that correct? Correct. Okay.
 Thank you. Right. Anyone else? If not, we'll go to the public portion of public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of substitute bill 10-23? There's no one from the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of substitute bill 10-23. Okay.
 All right. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on bill substitute bill 10-23 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements or yes. Thank you. I appreciate the explanation on the $250,000. However, it still gives me a pause and concern as to
 what we're doing here. So we just appropriated $2.5 million out of ARP funds for new housing projects. And we told the public that the city will partner with them in developments. And no surprise, when you're offering free money, there's a lot of people that lined up to take it. The question is what the city's role in these projects are. And the projects that the city is looking at and considering right now, many of them come in
 where the city is going to be paying as much as close to 50% of the development for a private project that will not be owned by the city. It'll be owned by a private entity. And I don't know if that's the direction that we want to go. Now, it's one thing with the $2.5 million that we put out of one-time funds. We put in for those who are special money coming from the federal government to use creatively, which we did. Um...
 and we allocated for that but now we're saying that that's not enough so we're going to find other sources it's not that we're just reapplying old appropriated funds because as Mr Bauer explained that we're going to use that for these other projects now but when this neighborhood Association is going to be ready to go forward we'll find new money for that so it's clear that at this point the cities
 does not see the two and a half million dollars as the project it sees that is just part of this bigger idea where the city is going to be spending significant money towards private development and I think there needs to be a broader discussion with how we measure the public private role in these projects and I'm not ready to go forward at this point with that is there anyone else I just would want to say that
 being on the end of working with the neighborhood association and neighborhoods, neighborhood associations want to improve their neighborhoods and want to take on the challenge of creating affordable housing. As we all know, it is a challenge and sometimes it does sounds good in theory, but when it comes down to trying to figure it out and get it done, it's a little bit harder, a little bit more challenging than you anticipate.
 But what I do like the fact is that this was an opportunity for people to see really how creating affordable housing is not as easy as what people think it is.
 uh given them more time to be able to get the capacity to be able to do it I sat in the meetings I met the consultants we went and looked at houses we looked at manufactured houses we looked at stick build houses we looked at all kind of different ways uh to build it and um and it's it's a challenge so again uh this was this was an opportunity for neighborhood association to to do that
 And the opportunity is not being taken away, but because the funding was there and was not used, they're going to be able to come back when they're ready to do it. I think, Chair-
 If I am the discussion that I had earlier, there's two different things. And I know, Mr. Willis, I'm definitely not putting you on a hot seat and I don't know if Caleb or who's on the phone. But I thought with this $250,000 appropriation, we already had approved this in the ARP funds.
 And what happened is that this money was not encumbered over when the transition of Mr. Parker to Mr. Willis. And with the $250,000, there's a.
 It needs to be on one line item and not two separate entries. So the council, from my understanding through these ARP funds, this was already approved. And that this $250,000 that was in the housing development under ARP funds, we already approved, but it was being encumbered. And maybe I'm being mistaken from this $250,000. And I don't know if...
 That's what my understanding was about the housing money that we had appropriated initially. What Mr. Bowers said was that
 There was more proposals than the 2 and a half million dollars that we already appropriated. So the city's looking for additional funds so that they could invest in or those projects or potentially other projects. But if they're seeking funds above the 2 and a half million dollars. So they found these they found $250,000. That was a different budget.
 previously allocated for a different housing project which wasn't being used so i went back to the general fund so but since at some point there was 250 000 that wasn't spent on housing they're adding that on top of the two and a half million dollars support
 for the ARP allocation. But then what they're doing is they're taking it twice. They're saying, well, that was previously allocated for housing. So we're going to put it for housing now. But when that neighborhood association comes back, we're going to tell them, well, we told you we're going to have $250,000. So we'll give it again. So what the city's trying to do is they're trying to take out of the general fund the same $250,000 they're going to spend twice.
 No, I don't. I don't think that's it. I think if I could. That's what it is. If I could just. Appropriate it again. But they're going to come back. That's what it is. We already told them that they could. That is what it is. That's the count. That's how that happens. Where else does that happen? Hold on. If you want us to assist with housing. No, I mean. Point of order. Hold on. No. No.
 so I agree with Mr wax's statements and if we get to that point we'll get to that point but the reality is this is 250 000 of a 350 million dollar budget money that was already allocated for housing and is now going to go and support housing again and just be added into that pot of 250 000 to go towards the
 The RFPs that are there. Oh, yeah. But then if I could, you're agreeing with my not with my policy belief, but you're agreeing with my explanation of what those funds are. Correct. Yes. OK. So as long as we're clear that this is new funds, this isn't what we appropriated. And then they're going to come back and come back for more housing funds. These are housing funds. They're still going to go to housing. But let's just be clear on different part of money. Let's just be clear on what we're doing here today.
 And it's not just these are monies that we already said. This is. Absolutely. I just want to make it clear. It is. You're absolutely right. You're saying. But we also the money was appropriated because it was appropriated for the far northwest development. So that's what you're saying. But it was appropriated because it was done for that housing purpose. Councilwoman. Yes. Yes.
 mr wax i just want to address um the one request for a discussion um i'm happy in uh i'm getting ready to schedule several committee meetings both in i.t and community investment and the agenda is getting larger um by the day but happy to include in that a discussion as you requested that sounds great councilwoman lauren hammond please um to somewhat
 Mirror what the concern is. When we appropriated those dollars, we knew where that went. This new money that is being asked to be appropriated, we're not certain who will end up with that money because the neighborhood is not ready to take on this build. So as a council, we should know specifically where that money is going, what build is getting this $250,000.
 Because when we appropriated it last year, we were given that information. Now we don't have it. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And to your point, I believe that Caleb said that they had numerous RFPs out there for building for infill residential housing projects.
 For me, we all know that that is a major concern. It's a resident of our residents. All of us up here have sat before and seen what we could do to help improve those. Like we did the sewer lateral program we eased up for people for that are building homes for low to moderate income, you know, but.
 And I understand the point you're saying, but the 200, this dollars, these dollars are still, there's people out there that are ready to build, is what I heard. So we're still going to use the money to help with residential infill within the city limits of South Bend.
 I wish that that housing development would have. I remember we had a very long discussion here about the alley vacation process, about the sewer hookups, the water hookups. It took a lot of time and effort for this council when we discussed that to prime them to get to that. And I'm still going to be optimistic that they'll be ready to move forward with that project because it's so important. But I still think that so are other housing projects.
 And this dollars are still going to help with the residential infill that is so needed within our community. So I just think it's appropriated in the manner that it was intended for. It's just going to be a different home built somewhere. They could be able to come up for us and tell us where we put that money. It does not. I would request that. I don't think that's a problem. I think they could think we should request that so we know where that money is.
 Yeah, we just requested they come back and tell us when and then it doesn't eliminate the neighborhood association from being able to do to build their duplex. And we're going to work very, very hard to get that done. All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding. I move that we send 1023 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. It's there's been a motion and second. Clark Jones, please call the roll.
 Council member Davis, you know, I put my hand up. I said chair like three times. And then, you know, you just kept going with it. And Sharon even tried to stop you. OK, but I tried to stop you. You don't want to recognize Councilman Davis. We do. We we have. I was asking a question. We have had five minutes. It ain't that it's in ways that then we we have given five minutes. We've taken a lot longer.
 to discuss this. And I think we've come to a conclusion. So it's time for us to move on to the next part. And they put a motion in. And now it's time for us to move on. That's the type of ball we're playing up here. Huh? That's the type of ball we're playing up here. Where's it starting to move on? Okay. Go ahead. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Nay. Council Member White. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. With the understanding that we will get the information requested. Aye. Vice President Iskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Subject to Bill 10-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Second.
 All right. There's been moved and second. All in favor, say aye. Any opposition? Motion passed. Full council is now back in session. This is the portion of the meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 0123 a third reading?
 123. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition for a special exception for the property located at 2621 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, 46615, Councilmanic District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Okay.
 Bill 01-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 123. Is there a motion? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye.
 Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 0123 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 0523 a third reading?
 5.23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. The first street to be vacated is that part of Old Bartlett Street lying south of the New Bartlett Street roundabout between Michigan Avenue to the east in the vacated section of Main Street to the west. The second street to be vacated in that part of Old Bartlett Street.
 lying south of the New Bartlett Street roundabout, lying east of Michigan Street and west of St. Joseph Street. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 05-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5-23. Second. I'm moving second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 05-23 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 06-23 a third reading?
 623, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending maximum salary and wage of executive assistant director of special projects for the City Clerk of South Bend, Indiana, for the calendar year 2023. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole? Yes. 06-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the fate
 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 06-23. 06-23. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. 06-23 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, would you please give 08-23 a third reading?
 08-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position and amend the maximum salaries of two existing full-time positions.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is that recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. 08-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 08-23. Move to pass. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Nay. Vicepresident Naskowski. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Nay. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes. Thank you. Bill number 08-23 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give 09-23 a third reading?
 09-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2023. Thank you. Councilor Lee is there.
 recommendation from the committee of the whole yes zero nine dash twenty three was heard in the committee of the whole and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation i will now entertain a motion regarding bill that's zero nine dash twenty three passage second been moving second clerk jones the role please council member thomas morgan aye
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember White. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 0-923 has been adopted. Clark Jones, will you please give substitute bill 10-23 a third reading.
 ten twenty three third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of southmond indiana appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year twenty twenty three of seven
 $729,545 from the general fund number 101. $255,785 from the parks and recreation fund number 201. $15,000 from the gift donation and bequest fund number 217.
 $449,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, number 220. $80,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222. $41,000 from the Code Enforcement Fund, number 223.
 Number 230, 10,000 from the Police Federal Drug Enforcement Fund, number 299, 34,895 from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area Fund, number 413, 800,000 from the Morris Performing Arts Center Capital Fund, number 416, 30,000 from the
 2017 Parks Bond Capital Fund, number 471, 551,957 from the Consolidated Building Fund, number 600, 5,000 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601, 75,000 from the Solid Waste Capital Fund, number 611, and 150,000 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Substitute Bill 10-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full counsel with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 10-23. Move passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Aye.
 aye council member Warner aye council member wax council member white council member Tomas Morgan aye president McBride aye seven eyes thank you bill 10-23 has been adopted this portion of the council meeting where
 For resolutions is where the council counsel hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk, a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill is referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given.
 During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name, address, and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes. With those speaking in favor, going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, would you please give Resolution 23-03 a reading?
 2303, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, commonly known as 2652, Jacqueline Court, South Bend, Indiana, 46614, and 3161, Young's Court, South Bend, Indiana, 46614, economic revitalization areas for purposes of a six-year real property tax abatement for the Robert Henry Corporation.
 Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Council members, before you for your consideration, are three tax abatement resolutions. The first one is for an industrial development real property tax abatement on the far southwest edge of town.
 It's for the Robert Henry Corporation. The Robert Henry Corporation is a construction and utility contractor, a union contractor at that. They've been a South Bend institution since 1974.
 They currently have their operations and headquarters on South Francis Street in the Howard Park neighborhood. What they would like to do is move their operations to the far Southwest edge of town on two different parcels. This resolution before you is it concerns the two parcels that you see highlighted on the screen. After reviewing the
 Robert Henry Corporation would qualify for a six-year abatement. As I mentioned, they're seeking to transfer their operations. They will be building a new truck maintenance facility, as well as new offices and a training facility for their employees. The petitioner has committed to invest $6.5 million in their own funds to build these facilities, and total about 33,000 square feet.
 Current taxes on the two properties combined is about $830. On the screen, you can see the tax estimates that we had compiled throughout the six-year abatement. The estimated taxes are
 that will be paid is nearly $600,000 and the estimated tax is abated as about $1,000,000. And then on your screen you can see the bottom five bullets are the projected tax revenues, actual taxes estimated to be paid after the abatement concludes. The petitioner is here to answer any questions that you might have and to talk about the project, but I'm happy to answer questions as well.
 Thank you. At this time, I'll turn to my colleagues and see if you have any questions for the petitioner. Counselor Davis. Thank you. At what point? Great idea. I applaud the move. Right. But question about philosophy and delivery within the department, your department.
 How often does the discussion come up about how we can start filling in some of the gaps within the city? This is going to the outskirts. Have no problem with it. Great idea. If it works for you, great. Still happy to have you. But we miss so much of an opportunity. One thing comes to mind right now is Olive, south of Olive Street all the way over to Walnut. That entire area, it's industrial, old industrial.
 um not all the 100 of it but you know a great deal of it and so in order for this city to begin to grow within itself i i would like to understand or believe are we pushing development in those in those directions or are we going to clear it out and then push development i would like to know what the philosophy is happening right now within the department thank you for your question um you know we employ all of
 the tools that we have to spur development in those areas, they are priority areas. For example, the Vibrant Places matching grant program, you know, on those key corridors in South Bend offer matching grant up to $50,000 in the priority corridors. Western Avenue would be an example. As you look down towards Sample, you know, those properties that are city-owned, you know, we advertise them. We want people to come in and build properties
 you know and invest in those communities you know provide jobs there you know olive in particular you know there are businesses there that if you look through the history of what um this council has approved you know they've you know whether it's you know those are businesses there that have you know taken advantage of some of the incentives that the city offers and you know we're excited um to be able to work with anyone if they do want to build in those particular areas okay thank you
 Councilwoman Nezagoski. Is this for questions? Yes. So the decision, I just want to be clear, the taxes paid that you showed up on that screen is a result of their investment, which is growingly, I would say, industrial or light, I don't know, commercial over in that district because that's where the Pure Green Farms, Bob Frame Plumbing is. So I guess two things is that tax base is growing, the South Bend tax base,
 And it's due to the investment that he's making and granting this tax phase in or this tax abatement. And to add to your comment, the estimates that we put forth do not take into account any expected increases in assessed value. Our model basically takes into consideration what their investment is. And we assume that based on their investment, we usually think about 80%.
 of what their investment might be would probably be the assessed value, but it's purely a speculative measure on our part. So, to your point, as you see more investment, you know, in this particular industrial park, you know, those property values will probably be higher than what we've estimated them to be, and thus we'll have a higher tax revenue. Okay, thank you.
 Any other questions? Again, we talked about it in the committee. Right now, the current taxes are $833, and even after the first year, we make some money off of it, but by the time it's paid, 20 years from now, or let's even look at 10 years from now, it's $1.6 million. It
 Correct. Correct. That is correct. And then as you can see the bottom, you know, we just kind of multiplied it out for those extra years. Also, one thing that was not mentioned during committee, well, it was mentioned that their operations are moving from the Howard Park neighborhood or they would like to move their operations from Howard Park neighborhood out to this area. You know, these estimates don't take into account any additional revenues that might come in from development.
 of the current Robert Henry Corporation properties in Howard Park. It's a very desirable neighborhood. And, you know, we're excited at the prospect of some development going on there as well. So many times people say you give it out these tax abatements, you give it out these tax abatements, free money, but it actually is more of an investment and it allows for a company to grow and develop and in the end, because of the partnership with the city,
 City ends up with better, with more taxes, but it gives the businesses an opportunity to grow. So thank you. You can make a comment. I'll open them for both. Thank you, President. I just want to thank you for remaining in South Bend.
 And I do believe it is a win-win. You get to build in a new location of the city that is currently vacant and expand and grow your business. And you leave a part of the city that is open for redevelopment, a very desirable part of the city. So I congratulate you in this new phase in your family's journey.
 and thank you for your investment. Councilor Warner. Thank you. I echo those comments. I am an IBEW member. I've worked with your employees before in the past and do a great job. I've been to your facility, I think picked up a meter base about 20 years ago and I drive by, it hasn't changed much in the last two decades. And I know that that tax bill is a lot higher than you guys pay for the garage now.
 And I think it's a win-win for you guys. I outgrew it when the Transpo garage was there. That made sense.
 You got very big trucks, bucket trucks, and pulling in all kinds of line trucks. And I get calls from neighbors about the trucks. And, you know, it's not really the same neighborhood it was 40 years ago. And so I think it makes sense. And there's a creates another opportunity there in the neighborhood. Thank you for your investment and what you guys do. Thank you.
 I'll turn to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 2303? Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak on this. Thank you. Is there anyone in the audience wish to speak in opposition of Bill 2303? There's no one in the audience wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 2303. Thank you. I'll turn back to counsel.
 just wanna say thank you it's always really exciting to see a company both grow and then choose to stay in south bend and um you know your company is a wonderful part of the south bank community uh both as an employer and just uh your employees that they all uh are part of our you know core city and it's great to have you grow and stay so thank you
 Thank you, Councilor Nieskowski. Yep, and I would like to say thank you so much for your investment in the 6th District. Welcome. I'll be excited to see that facility when it's up and built. And thank you so much for your investment. And as a third-generation family-owned union business,
 That that's it's just exciting. And this is made for people like you to be able to come in and make that initial investment, help the city. It helps you. It's just a win win situation for all of us. So thank you. Thank you for that. I would like to move for adoption. Second, it's been moving in second. Clark Jones, the role, please.
 Vice President Miscavige. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2303 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give 2309 a reading.
 2309, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 536 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for Soma Capital LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? There is, President. This came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. Petitioner, please state your name and address. Eric Lavish, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment on the 14th floor of this building. Having gone through this abatement three times now, I don't want to bore you with the details, but this is a confirming resolution for the apartment building that is on South Main Street. It's been vacant for months.
 you know, since 2021, the petitioner is seeking an eight-year abatement for which they qualify. They're investing over $2 million to completely rehab the building. You can see on your screen a rendering of...
 what the project will look like upon completion. What they're doing is they're converting the building from eight apartments into 12 units with three of those dedicated to low and moderate income households. The eight year abatement, you can see the numbers on the screen in front of you, just as we have been discussing, current taxes on this property are about $5,200.
 You can see the numbers throughout the life of the eight-year abatement. Taxes to be paid will be about $130,000, where the abatement will result in savings for the taxpayer of about $210,000. Once you calculate those out past the terms of the abatement, you can see after 15 years, for example, just under...
 using current rates without assuming any increases in assessed value. We're looking at $430,000 in tax revenues, much to the comments that Council has made in the previous bill. You know, this doesn't take into account assessed value increases. So as we look at the exciting projects going on on the south side, whether it's the
 the Monroe project, the diamond, the two buildings that Real America is will be building through the Diamond View Apartments project. You know this. It's a very exciting, a very exciting time on the South side of downtown, and this will just be a jewel piece, a jewel piece in that development there. The representative of the development, excuse me, representative of the development firm is here to talk about the project. If you have any questions.
 Thank you. With that, I'll turn to counsel. Do you have any questions for the petitioner? Counselor Hammond. How many affordable units are in this again, Mark? The petitioner has committed to provide three of the 12 units to the low and moderate income threshold as standard for this type of abatement. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes.
 i do how soon will you guys get started on the renovations of this building we're finishing up some drawings we're still um revising our contractor bids trying to get to a price point that allows us to commence we hope to finish that in the next 60 days or so yeah with that i'll turn it to the public portion is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of bill number 2309
 Dr. Jones, you see anyone in the virtual audience? No, I don't see anyone in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak. Thank you. Same said in opposition. No one in opposition is speaking in opposition as well. Thank you. I'll turn back to counsel for final comments. Sure. I have a lot to say, but you know what? Good job, guys. I really enjoy that as second district.
 Good move, right? Yeah, I'm for that. But one thing that is really confounding me here after paying attention to what we're doing in the last several bills as it relates to housing, this city, and this is what I was going to say earlier, Kenneth, it was just a comment. People don't trust it.
 That's why they feel the way that they feel about the $250,000. Now, out of everything that we have done, that has to be the lowest figure out of a tax abatement or some sort of agreement the city has made. And undoubtedly, those dollars were going to a poor part of the area of the city. Those people were probably black, right? You had those two things that's glaring you in your face. And every other thing that has come before us, whether it's a tax abatement or this, is going to people who are...
 White. They're white. They have businessmen. They have money. And the city has opened their arms fully for the development to happen. Everybody is able to ask their questions about what's going on, what's happening, why, time span, et cetera, et cetera. What I'm saying is that we said no for a startup, somebody that really needed opportunity and a chance, somebody that deserved the opportunity and chance. And undoubtedly, they're black and poor. Right.
 And we are like giving away opportunity after opportunity after opportunity to people who already have it. Two hundred fifty thousand dollars matched up against millions of dollars over the last few bills. That's what I was trying to get across to you earlier. I'm not against this. I would never start stepping step in front of development. But what I will say is that there's inconsistencies in how we are looking at things and what things are going. There's a huge inconsistency. Two hundred fifty thousand dollars would not have mattered that much.
 But it would meant the world to that street. If I could just hold on one second, I was muted. I'm sorry. Who is online? And you need to state your name and address, please. Taylor Bauer, executive director of community investment with offices on the 14th floor. Just to kind of address that comment, the previous two hundred and fifty thousand dollars that we were discussing, that would have been a direct investment.
 funding subsidy towards the development of housing, whereas these last couple bills we've been talking through are abatements on future owed taxes for these developments. So,
 We're talking the city paying money directly to the Far Northwest Neighborhood Association to support new housing development versus in these two cases, the city is just foregoing future tax revenues to unlock these developments. I think there is a difference there. So when we're looking at those dollar amounts, you know, a direct subsidy is different than a tax abatement.
 It's still subsidy. It's still welfare. It's governmental welfare. It's the same thing. Regardless of what form you put it in, it is the same thing. They're never going to walk around with a briefcase full of $250,000 bills or whatever that number is. They're not going to do the same thing. It's just taken off on paper. I know what's going on, Caleb. You should know what's going on as well.
 I'm saying that the $250,000 was minuscule compared to what is happening with these other bills. That's the only thing I'm saying. That's why I asked the gentleman who presented what was the philosophy.
 He couldn't answer the question. I'm done. Mr. Davis, the $250,000 is not taking away. You're not going to make me feel any type of way or whatever you say. I just explained it to you. No, I'm just telling you. I don't think you're listening. Government welfare both ways. I don't think you heard that he said when the Neighborhood Association gets ready, it'll be money. We are helping everybody else get ready. That's what I'm trying to say to you. Everybody else is getting ready. Everybody's getting help.
 From the city to get ready. I said that those people. That $250,000 has been there to help them to develop. So how did we take it back then? We didn't take it back. We did take it back. When they get ready, it'll be, it expired actually. You don't get it, sir. The contract expired, but they're going to allow them to, when they're ready to come back and that $250,000 will be there. Absolutely, you don't get it.
 Any other comments? Councilor Tomas-Morgan. Thank you. Mr. Glavich, there's no need to apologize about presenting this three times. This is an exciting project for our downtown. And as these three bills reflect in
 over these past four years, the city has seen unprecedented growth and expansion in business and in housing. So I thank the developers for making this investment, for taking it up, not waiting for Messiah to come and develop this, but to decide amongst yourselves to make this event, this investment and to help.
 increase our housing stock and beautify our city. Thank you for your investment. Thank you. With that, I'll turn to council. What's your pleasure? Make a motion for adoption. Second. Move and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 2309 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, please read Resolution 2310.
 2310, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend commonly known as 7468 Warden Parkway, South Bend, Indiana, 46628, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for 7468 Warden Parkway, LLC. Is there a committee report? No.
 Sorry, President McBride. Yes, this came to Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Name and address for the record, please.
 Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before your consideration is a declaratory resolution for tax abatement for a company who is looking to move its Midwest operations from Illinois to South Bend. We're very excited about this opportunity. It's a California company.
 And for many reasons, South Bend was a desirable location for them. They're seeking an abatement to build a 94,000 square foot facility in the far northwest section of town near Tyrak. They're looking to invest $8.2 million.
 in building this facility. And this is only phase one of what we hope to be a second phase of two phases, the second which would expand the more than double the facility which they plan to build currently. As I mentioned, the petition qualifies for a 10 year abatement.
 As we've been talking, you know, the taxes on these properties are currently very low. This particular property has an annual tax bill of less than $1,000. In the first year alone under this abatement, the taxpayer will pay more than that, about $1,350. During the 10-year abatement, as you can see, this property,
 property will yield $1.2 million in tax revenue for the city.
 The estimated abatement is about $820,000. And as I've done prior, you can see the calculations for expected taxes after the abatement period ends. And just to stress again, that these are simply estimates based on current tax rates and the assumption that property values would stay constant and would not increase.
 As you can see, we're very excited. This is just, you know, having a new business come in and invest in our city is wonderful. And a representative from Coast Southwest is here to talk about the project and answer any questions if you have. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Please state your name and address for the record.
 hello again council members my name is olivia simo located at 7468 borden parkway i'm the midwest general manager for coast southwest and also part of the third generation family ownership of the company are there any questions for the petitioner councilwoman hammond thank you and um thank you for your investment in south bend um the only thing that i would ask is
 There is phenomenal job growth and you're offering some amazing wage potential here. As I look at the minority employees, if there could be a stronger focus on just bringing in some additional minority and women employees amongst that 43 potential new employees, that would be fabulous.
 Yeah, absolutely. Councilwoman, I will say when we filled that out, those were only employees we currently had in Indiana. So of the three we had in Indiana, two of them were women. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Any other questions, Counselor Lee? What do you guys distribute? Yeah, so we're a distributor for chemical ingredients that go into personal care products. So really anything you see on the back of your shampoo bottle is something that we'll carry. About 75% of what we do is in personal care. The other 25% is in food, pharmaceutical ingredients, and then some household cleaning ingredients as well.
 And you guys plan to start your hourly wage at $31.07 starting out and then increase it by the 10 years to $44.31. Is that correct? Yeah, so that's an average. Most of the positions are salaried. So taking a range of positions that are both salaried and hourly, yes, that would be the average. Okay.
 All right. First district and $31 an hour. And we're very happy about that. So thank you for coming to the first district. Thank you. At this time, I would open it up to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 10-23-10? There is no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in Resolution 23-10. Thank you. The same in opposition?
 there is no one um wishing to speak in opposition as well thank you with that i'll turn back to council counselor wax i just want to say thank you for considering south bend and your expansion and i'm excited about uh this is being just part one of your moving as much of your operations as possible here so i want to wish you success uh now and long into the future
 Thank you. Well, that's it. Counselor White. I would just like to echo the other sentiments in regards to thanking you for staying. And one, thank you for wanting to come to South Bend and the level of business and employees that you bring with you. We're very excited. Look forward to, again, phase two as well. Thank you. With that said, counsel, what's your pleasure for adoption? Second has been moved in second at Clerk Jones.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 23-10 has been adopted. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 1123 a first reading? Yes.
 11-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1330 High Street, Councilmanic District No. 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 11-23 to South Bend Zoning Appeals.
 BZA for 4-3-23 and to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on April the 10th. So moved. Second. Been moving second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion's carried.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 12-23 a reading? 12-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 439 Dundee Street, Councilmanic District No. 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 12-23 to South Bend ZA on 4-3 and to Zoning and Administration for public hearing and third reading on 4-10. Still moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give a reading to 13-23.
 13.23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1602 South Michigan Street, Councilman District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 13-23 to BZA for 4.3 and to zoning and annexation and public hearing and third reading on 4.10.
 So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give a first reading to 14-23? 14-23.
 1423, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 6 by adding Article 15, Section 694 through 6-108, inclusive to require landlords and tenants to participate in bed bug remediation.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 14-23 to Health and Public Safety for public hearing and third reading on March 27th. So moved. Second. It's been moving second. And all in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 15-23 a first reading?
 15-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. 1,100 block of Corby Boulevard being a part of Corby Boulevard as shown on the Indiana Department of Transportation right-of-way plans for State Road 23. RW Code 3786, designated number 9133615, project number STP-S050-2.
 dash zero zero seven dated December 19th, 2011, and being situated in the west half of the northwest quarter of section six, Township 37, North Range three, East Portage Township, City of South Bend, St. Joseph County, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 15-23 to Public Works and Property Vacation for public hearing and third reading
 Second. Has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Is there any unfinished business at this time? Yes. Councilor Hammond. Thank you. With the assistance of Mr. Palmer, I did file on APRA and got the information regarding the parking garages that the city currently owns and manages. Yes. Okay.
 Over the five years of information that I received, 2018 to 2022, the five-year loss on those structures operationally was $360,292.05. And this does not include the largest portion of capital improvements for those structures. This was a concern when
 The bond for the two new parking structures was attached to the other improvement projects for the neighborhoods, and I was pretty clear on that. So as we review or I have reviewed these documents and I would be happy to share them with anyone on the council, we are losing hundreds of thousands of dollars. And for the two new structures.
 Because current Beacon employees receive free parking, we would be required to, even though we still do not have a signed agreement with Beacon, but we would be in a position to have to supply free parking. And we are already losing significant amount of dollars. We know that free is never free. Somebody will always have to pay for that. Yeah.
 Secondly, we want to be able to maintain safe, secure, well-lit, and well-maintained parking garages. I would like to just acknowledge the fact that we lost one of our parking garage security guards. And I pray for him and I pray for his family. But this is a significant undertaking for the city. These losses have to come out of the general fund.
 And I don't believe that the residents of South Bend, number one, understand the extent of the loss and the amount of money being paid into these structures. But secondly, they don't understand what is about to happen with these two new parking garages. It is also a question how we can afford to do these projects, but then we are putting off
 Some of the things that the community is calling for the loudest, such as the rebuild of Pottawatomie Pool. So I would just once again like to stress very loudly my objection to the bond for those two new parking garages. Thank you. Is there anyone else? With that, I'll move on to new business.
 to President McBride I notice on the agenda for the board of public works for tomorrow there is an agenda item to amend the consulting agreement for the consulting firm for Bex Lake until December 2031.
 so i mean two thousand yeah yeah right december 31 2023 so i am asking for update in regards to the scope and uh what is happening and uh the extension of the amendment as well as update on cherry street project okay thank you i will have that clerk jones if we can make sure that we have an update for bex lake and the cherry street uh project update for next council okay
 Thank you, Councilor. And I did reach out to the administration. Thank you. With my concerns. Councilor Wax. Thank you. I just want to give a brief update from a redevelopment commission meeting this past week. So it came up in the context of spending at houses, but
 the the main portion of that um meeting discussed a the city redevelopment commission has a bunch of scattered site properties that they own and they put out a request for proposals for investors to come in and and propose different developments and well none of them are
 you know the finalizing the city has to go back and forth and figure out which ones they're going to go through and that process is still early on some of those proposals are extremely exciting uh including some
 some developers that have experience getting the low-income housing tax credits and some of the proposals um were for as many as 50 units was one of them there was another one that was 20 something units and they'll hopefully be able to go in with a much smaller investment from the city most of it would be coming in either from the developer and from the state
 And it's just something really exciting that potentially in the future, some of those may just be the first step in what could hopefully be a string of these projects going forward. So I think that's a really positive update for everybody. Thank you. Is there anyone else? No. With that, I will turn it to the privilege of the floor.
 individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and address their residential address individuals have three minutes the maximum time for this portion shall be thirty minutes individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously tonight
 And the council president may assign a topic raised by the individual doing the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact the member of administration for review of the topics and respond by the next scheduled council meeting. Please state your name and address for the record. Hello, I'm Rhonda Richards, 1020 Clover Street, South Bend, Indiana. I just have a point of order question about one of the things that you passed earlier on 1023. Okay.
 It was a substitute and it was the second reading and then you passed it. And I understand the public people talked on, had the opportunity to speak for the second portion and stuff. But since it was a substitute, my point of order question is, was there ever a first reading on it publicly?
 Since it was substituted. Yes, ma'am. And when was that? There's a process that takes place. Well, actually, I will have a parliamentary answer to answer the question for you.
 A bill that comes for first reading and is given first reading can be it can be a substitute introduced after that first reading and just picks up then with the normal process of second. OK, that's what I thought it probably was. I just wanted to make sure I was understanding clearly. Thank you for your time. Well, no, I appreciate that. That's all you had. That was the easy question.
 I appreciate that. Is there anyone, Clark Jones, you see in the virtual audience? No, there's no one in the virtual audience that's wishing to speak. Thank you. With that said, this meeting is adjourned.