Good evening. I would like to call on Monday, March 11th, Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Toronto, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good afternoon, members of the public. Sorry, good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific bill item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so is listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome Pastor Jason Miller from Salvin Church for the invocation. Thank you so much for coming.
 Thank you. Before I offer a prayer, I'll just say it's a privilege to offer one. And if you don't share my beliefs, I'm just honored even more that you would let me talk for 30 seconds. But wherever we come from, maybe we can chose this as a moment of shared intention for common good. Let's pray.
 Our loving God, we thank you for the privilege of calling South Bend home and for the good work of so many who make this a place for everyone. I pray tonight for the work of the council, for everyone who's elected to serve this city, including the clerk and the mayor, that together that we would have a vision of wisdom, justice and common good. That we would find common ground on all the things that make this a better place for every kind of person who calls South Bend home.
 We pray for the hard work that happens and give blessings to those who do it, hoping that in quiet moments they know that you are with them and love is with them and that we are with them as they work on our behalf. So bring into the chamber tonight and every time they gather great wisdom and vision for who we need to be. And I pray these things in your name. Amen. Thank you.
 and chiefly republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, for the 13th and just as long. Thank you. You may be seated. Clerk Tirado, will you please call the roll?
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Present. Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Present. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Present. Councilmember White. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. All nine councilmembers present. Thank you. At this time, we will have report from the subcommittee on minutes from Toronto. Thank you.
 to the common council of the city of south bend the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the gen of the february 26 2024 meeting of the common council and find them to be correct therefore we recommend the same be approved i'll move second it's been moving secondly all in favor any opposition the motions carry clerk toronto
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the October 24th, 2022 minutes of the Common Council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. One order. I would just like to share that. I would just make a motion recognizing that council members that weren't
 present on the council at the date uh would just abstain that's fine with me instead of just having you do it that way we know it's very clear all three are abstaining okay fine point of order i i hesitate i was hesitant on saying i for the february 26th
 because I was unsure. So I'm saying aye for February 26, 2024. And I needed to clarify that. I'm glad you did that because last meeting, there was a lot of back and forth. So I'm glad.
 For clarification, if I may, for the minutes that have not been approved for years past from previous administration, the council, the clerk's office, they are trying to bring us back in compliance with the minutes that have not been approved for either the committee or for the council.
 And so they have been diligently working to keep the minutes current moving forward. And those are the minutes that the full council will be voting on. As you just heard tonight before we move for further passage, the ones that we talk about looking back from 2022, 2023 and before the new council came on in January 1, Councilman Warner and myself.
 That's the rules committee. We have been inspecting the minutes for the previous minutes, and the former council will be voting on those minutes. So just for point of clarification, since the new council was not here, they did not want to take a stand on the accuracy of the minutes or not. So just for the public to know, that's where we are. With that being said, I believe that there was a motion on the floor. Second. Clerk, yes.
 toronto if you would note that councilman warner made the motion and councilman lee made the second for the passage of the october 24 2022 minutes all in favor any opposition the motions carry thank you if you are here for bill 0224
 regarding the zoning for 711 Leland Avenue that has been tabled until March 25th. With that being said, I would like to make a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. So moved and second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session, and this is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of the discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance,
 A report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time.
 Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 11-24 a second reading? 11-24, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 737 Beale Street. City report? Yes, Mr. Chair. The zoning and annexation brings this bill to you with a favorable recommendation.
 The petitioner is at the podium. I ask that you state your name and address and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Skip Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of this building. This is for Bill 11-24, property located at 737 Beale Street. Owner is the South Bend Community School Corps. And kind of a summary of this project, they're looking to demolish the southwest portion of the existing building. And then they're renovating the interior to convert that former school into what will be the corporation's new administration offices. The variance?
 Requested is a use variance to allow for professional offices in this building. And this is just for some context. This is the existing building.
 the plans, and then a view of that building looking from the south, and then again looking from the east west towards that existing neighborhood, and then that portion that's highlighted in red is the area that will be demolished. So staff has found that offices are an appropriate use for this building and should actually have a lower impact on the surrounding neighborhood than the previous school.
 Additionally, the footprint of the building is noted will shrink. It was originally 164,000 square feet. It'll be reduced to about 154,000 square feet. You might have noticed also in our recommendation that we had recommended limiting that office space to 160,000 square feet because as staff kind of reviewed this, we found that the office use was appropriate given the size of the building, but that it should not be expanded to kind of increase any impact on the surrounding neighborhood.
 Also, it's worth noting that this petition was originally considered either to be rezoned or as a use variance. Staff felt that a use variance was more appropriate because while the office use is kind of a compatible use with this neighborhood, upzoning to UF, Urban Neighborhood Flex, would allow certain kinds of development that would not be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. So this comes to you from the...
 From the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. All right. Thank you so much. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? We did a lot of this during the committee meetings. I don't have any questions, but I just like to say what I said this afternoon, that I am an employee of the South Bend School Corporation. So I'd like to announce that. I guess I should announce that, too, that I'm an employee of the South Bend Community School Corporation.
 Right. All right. Well, at this time, we'll now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 11-24? We ask that you come now and state your name and address for the record. I do not see anyone in favor in person or online. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? No.
 I do not see anyone in person or online that wishes to speak in opposition of the bill. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 11-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I would like to make a motion that Bill 11-24 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please give the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye.
 council member bolden simpson aye council member warner aye council member lee aye council member white aye council member tomas morgan aye council member good rogers aye vice president naskowski aye president mcbride aye all nine all right this um um bill 11 national reform be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation
 Dr. Otto, would you please give Bill 13-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2024. All right. All right.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We have our petitioner at the podium. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill before us. Yes. Kyle Willis, city controller, offices on the 12th floor of this building.
 Bill number 13-24, budget transfers, highlighted 147,000 budget transfer for the social outreach initiative. Those funds will go towards funding salaries and benefits for representatives, a part of the community initiatives division or venue parks and arts. They will they work to engage with the community to build trust and work with at risk use.
 Another budget transfer of $12,000 to establish the Youth Council budget within the Common Council's budget. A budget transfer of $1 million in the local roads and streets fund to fund improvements for local roads and bridges. All right. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? We talked a lot about this in committee meeting. Okay.
 If not, we'll now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Torado, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 13-24? I do not see anyone in the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in the public or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 13-24 is now closed.
 I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I make a motion to send Bill 1324 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. All right. Bill 13-24 will not be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 14-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Ordinance Number 10980-23, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2024 to correct a scabiness error in the wage table for the Equipment Services Work Group. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in the Personal and Finance Committee this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. We see that our petitioner is here again. I ask that you state your name and address for the record and key points regarding the bill that's before us. Yes, Kyle Willis, State of the Controller, office is on the 12th floor. This bill will correct a scrivener's error or typo.
 uh for the machinist five wage rate uh when we approved this this salary ordinance back in october um it was incorrectly entered so today we're here just here to correct that to reflect a correct wage rate of 32 dollars and 12 cents okay all right uh council members do you have any questions regarding this bill once again we did a lot of discussion in committee so
 uh everyone was able to get their questions out if not we will now go to the public um hearing portion uh clerk toronto is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of bill 14-24 i do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill is there anyone present or online wishing to speak in opposition
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 14-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I'll make a motion to send Bill 14-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. All right, Bill 14-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Torraldo, would you please give Bill 15-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10978-23, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2024 to establish two new full-time positions.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. The petitioner is here again.
 I ask that you state your name and address for the record and key points regarding the bill that's before us. Yes, Kyle Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor. Bill 1524 brings forward two new positions in the legal department, the first being Director of Legal Administration, which is currently the department's paralegal and manages three staff members and the Office Ordinance Violations Bureau Clerk.
 There is also an increase in the salary cap from $62,012 to $70,000. The second position will be the senior assistant city attorney. This will be a title change from one of several assistant city attorneys. So in the event that...
 lead city attorney or the deputy city attorney is not available the cd senior assistant city attorney would be the next in line with this with this new position we increased the salary cap to 175 hundred hundred and seven thousand five hundred dollars from ninety nine thousand three hundred and twenty nine dollars
 And to fund, to cover these budget increases for these salary, for these positions, we moved $16,000 from one of the seasonal interns to cover the increase of $8,000 basically for each position. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions?
 Just to clarify, there is no, this is all remains within the budgetary restraints of what they was budgeted for last year. There's no increase in anything. This is what they're moving around to ensure that they have the proper structure set up in their department. Correct. Thank you.
 All right. If not, we'll now move to the public hearing session. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 15-24? I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone in person or online that wishes to speak in opposition. All right. At this point, the public hearing portion for Bill 15-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to send Bill 15-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll.
 council member tomas morgan aye council member white aye council member warner aye council member bolden simpson aye council member lee aye council member dr davis aye council member good rogers vice president naskowski aye president mcbride aye all nine all right bill 15-24 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation
 I would now entertain a motion to accept substitute for 16-24. Second. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposition?
 Motion passes. Clerk Torralda, would you please give Substitute Bill 16-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2024 of...
 $337,792,000 from the general fund number 101. $670,996 from the parks and recreation fund number 201. $670,996 from the parks and recreation fund number 101.
 $456,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund number 220. $100,000 from the Liability Insurance Fund number 226. $150,000 from the Loss Recovery Fund number 227. $32,157 from the COVID-19 Response Fund number 264.
 $360,500 from the IT Innovation 311 Call Center Fund Number 279. $1.5 million from the Morris Performing Arts Center Capital Fund Number 416. $123,500 from the Parking Garages Fund Number 601. $1.1 million from the Waterworks Capital Fund Number 622. $1.1 million from the Waterworks Capital Fund Number 622.
 and $250,000 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund number 641. All right. Thank you very much. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in Personal and Finance this afternoon. It was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole.
 all right petitioner we ask that you give your name and address and share those key points regarding the builders before us um Kyle Willis City Controller offices on the 12th floor of this building uh we have appropriation of 91 820 dollars to go towards uh smoke alarms for the fire fire prevention program and uh 44 820 dollars for the office cleaning of the county city offices
 There's also a $75,000 appropriation for the fire department to fund their firefighter cancer screenings. Also, $1.5 million appropriation for the Morris Capital Fund to appropriate grant funds that will go towards Phase 2 improvements over at the Morris. And $450,000 appropriation in the V&U Parks and Arts Fund for the Fusion Fest and Vibes Music Fest.
 that that will take place later on this year all right thank you very much sir council members do you have any questions for the petitioner yeah sure i should ask this when uh eric corvath was here this afternoon but uh there's an anticipated expense for a biosolid trucking uh can you expand on that a little bit as best you can for me yeah yes
 So there was a... If not, somebody can send me an email tomorrow. It'd be fine. I can also have Eric follow up. But I guess the gist of it is there's a machine. It's called a Slinger. Oh, I know what this is. He talked about it. Never mind. Okay. Go ahead then. Okay. We're like Slinger. So this is the G-rated version of it. Okay.
 It's an equipment or machine and it's called a slinger and it slings biosolids. So in other words, poop, it slings as so the machine is down. So they didn't were able to get it. They were not able to use it and get.
 to disperse these solids like they needed to. So they're having to, they're now having to truck those solids to a- It's a very important machine. Yeah. Very important. Thank you. All right. At this point, let's go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Tirado, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of substitute bill 16-24?
 I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition. All right, because we don't want nobody going against the slinger, right? All right. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 1624 is now closed. At this point, I'll entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to send Substitute Bill 1624 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Bolden-Simpson.
 Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nigh.
 All right, substitute bill 16-24 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Second. It's been moved and second. All in favor? Any opposition? Motion carries. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading, and action is taken regarding bills that were just heard during the Committee of the Whole.
 Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 1124 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 737 Bill Street.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1124? Yes. Bill 1124 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1124.
 move for passage second the movement second clerk toronto the role please council member white aye council member lee aye council member warner aye council member bolden simpson aye council member dr davis council member thomas morgan aye council member good rogers vice president niskowski aye president mcbride aye all nine thank you bill 1124 has been adopted
 clerk toronto will you please give bill 1324 third reading third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the city of south bend indiana for the year 2024. thank you counselor is there a recommendation from the committee of the whole regarding bill 14-24 14-20 13-24 thank you
 Yes, it was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 13-24. For passage of Bill 13-24. Second. Clerk Tirado, did you get the motion and the passages? Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Bill 13-24 has been adopted. Dr. Rotto, will you please give Bill 14-24 a third reading?
 Third, reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Ordinance Number 10980-23, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2024 to correct a skillfulness error in the wage tax.
 Table for the Equipment Services Workgroup. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 14-24? Yes. Bill 14-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 14-24. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Warner. Second.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Bill 14-24 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 15-24 a third reading?
 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending ordinance number 10978-23 which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of the
 of the Executive Departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2024 to establish two new full-time positions. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 15-24? Yes, 15-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 15-24. I move for passage. Second. Been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll please.
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Deskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Bill 1524 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado, will you please give substitute bill 16-24 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2024 of $337,792 from the general fund number 101, $670,950.
 $996 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 201, $456,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund number 220, $100,000 from the Liability Insurance Fund number 226, $150,000 from the Lost Recovery Fund number 227,
 $32,157 from the COVID-19 Response Fund number 264. $360,500 from the IT Innovation 311 Call Center Fund number 279. $1.5 million from the Morris Performing Arts Center Capital Fund number 416.
 $123,500 from the Parking Garage Fund number 601, $1.1 million from the Water Works Capital Fund number 622, and $250,000 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund number 641. Thank you so much.
 Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 16-24? Yes, Substitute Bill 16-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute Bill 16-24. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Bill 1624 has been adopted. Clerk Toronto, will you please give Resolution 2404 a reading? A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving the purchase of real property located at 1150 East Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 THERE IS PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. RESOLUTION 2404 WAS HEARD THIS AFTERNOON IN THE COMMITTEE OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND AFTER A MUCH VERY
 VIGOROUS DISCUSSION. IT COMES FORWARD TO THE COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE RECOMMENDATION. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. PETITIONER, THANK YOU. PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND ANSWER FOR THE RECORD. NEW SPEAKER GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL MEMBERS. JOSEPH MULNER, PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT MANAGER WITH OFFICES ON THE 14TH FLOOR OF THE COUNTY CITY BUILDING. I KNOW MOST OF YOU WERE AT COMMITTEE AND SAW THIS PRESENTATION, BUT I DO KNOW THERE ARE A NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC HERE, SO I WILL WORK THROUGH THE PRESENTATION LIKE I DID AT COMMITTEE.
 Before you is a resolution to authorize the Board of Public Works to purchase three parcels at the southwest corner of Mishawaka and Byer. This is Kelly's Pub here outlined, and then these two parcels are the parking lots that come with the pub property. So the resolution would authorize the purchase of all three parcels. This is just directly north of the Farmer's Market near the Sunnymead neighborhood.
 This resolution came out of essentially a December 2023 neighborhood meeting after a shooting outside the pub. Adjacent nearby neighbors, some of them who are here today, organized a meeting between the nearby neighbors. Mr. Kelly, the owner of Kelly's Pub and city officials and police officers.
 Out of that meeting, Mr. Kelly indicated he would be willing to sell the pub if we could come to an agreement on price and other terms, and he had also been quietly trying to sell the pub for a couple of years. He is, I think, 74 or 75, so he's ready to retire. At that time, city staff began negotiations with Mr. Kelly on a possible purchase.
 So, before you, the resolution would authorize the Board of Public Works to purchase all three lots. Per state law, the council doesn't actually set the acquisition price. That's the Board of Public Works. The council just authorizes the board to enter into that negotiation. But, however, the negotiated purchase price that the Board of Public Works would vote on if you do approve is $275,000. This is under the average of two independent appraisals, which per state law it must be at or under those two appraisals.
 And if approved per the contract negotiated with Mr. Kelly, all pub operations would cease on March 26th, I believe at 6 p.m. And then the city would take possession in early April after doing due diligence, title work, and so forth.
 The city's intention would be to demolish the building and better secure parking lots in the interim. We know that vacant buildings can attract crime on some degree, so we don't want to add another one of that, and we don't believe the building is really worth the effort to keep it going. The reasons for purchase, there's a number of them. The first being out of that neighborhood concern. The pub has been a long-term neighborhood concern for that area. In just
 A portion of the issues in 2019 there was a mass shooting which killed one individual and injured 11 others. Since 2021 we pulled the police calls and there were at least 80 police calls of service to the pub. And just recently there was a shooting, two shootings over the span of about a month and a half over this winter.
 Closing the pub, the city believes would significantly improve the safety of the surrounding area and the city overall. We don't believe this would solve all crime in the city of South Bend, but this would certainly help an issue, a property that's certainly been an issue for some time with safety concerns. And there are many neighborhood bars across the city of South Bend that we believe are additive to their neighborhoods, that they make their neighborhoods more enjoyable to live in. But Kelly's has not been one of those bars.
 But there's more reasons beyond safety. The property has been up for sale. It was publicly said that in a public meeting that the property was for sale. And the city's purchase allows for the city to control the future of the property. Since there is a three-way liquor license attached to the site, the chances are somewhat high that if a new owner came in, they would be operating the bar in a similar manner that has been, and we would continue to have these issues.
 but also the surrounding area around that mishawaka avenue or what we're calling the market district has seen some business growth of late oh mama's cloud oh mama's cheese shop cloud walking coffee shop iron hand winery armory etc this would be a prime redevelopment site for the city south bend to own and really dictate the future and that it's done well and beneficial to the neighborhood
 And then finally, the city is planning improvements to Mishawaka Avenue, specifically streetscape improvements to make it more enjoyable to be in that vicinity and to be able to walk
 This is just a quick map here. In gold are some of the more long-established businesses that have been in that area for a while, including Bamber Supermarket to the north and then the Farmer's Market to the south. But like I said, the ones marked in blue, those are new businesses that have come online over the past few years. But walking to these businesses from each other is currently not a very pleasant experience.
 We would want the farmers market area to be a place you'd want to spend right all Saturday afternoon being able to go to all the shops, but right now you can do it. It's just not the best experience. Mishawaka Avenue is very wide. The sidewalks are very narrow. So we believe control of this property would help make that streetscape improvement easier for everybody.
 Next steps, if approved by the Council this evening, the Board of Public Works would vote on Tuesday, tomorrow, March 12th, on a purchase agreement with Mr. Kelly. The bar operations, like I said, would cease on March 26th with the closing in April.
 Cities would secure the building and the parking lots and begin process redevelopment of the site. I've personally already reached out to some of the neighboring businesses after this went public when the agenda was posted just to give them my card, make sure that we're a good neighbor while we're holding this property in the interim. If there's any issues, they can reach out to us.
 And then the Mishawaka Avenue intersection improvements are tentatively scheduled for 2025. And I just wanted to make a brief comment. We had a good discussion at committee about the purchase process. I would like to say one thing.
 with the purchase, you need a willing seller. And sometimes there are properties that the city would be interested in acquiring, but the seller is not interested in selling or they're not interested in selling at a price that we could deem viable. We do have that average of two appraisals limit. And some people think their properties are worth far more than the average of two appraisals.
 And the city has taken similar actions to this in the past. I'll reference one in 2015. The city of South Bend, through this exact same process, purchased the old P&A building on Western and Olive. That was an old bar community group that was closing down. And the city was afraid that it might be purchased by a property owner who wouldn't take care of it. And there was also street improvements on Western Avenue coming that we thought would be good to hold.
 hold the property at the time so a very similar situation the city purchased that property in 2015 demolished it has taken some time but the redevelopment commission sold it to a local grocery store and we're happy to know that a grocery store is going to break ground there in the spring so you're really seeing the full process it did take some time hopefully this one won't take as long but this isn't something completely out of ordinary that the city's done
 And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Caleb Bauer is the executive director of community investment is here as well. And we'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you so much for your presentation. And before we have comments, I will turn to my colleague to see if you have any questions of the petitioner. Two questions for each council. Is there anyone that have any questions? Yes. A couple of things. As you looked at the issue of the
 the situation on that you referred to he referred to that was to my knowledge done by the redevelopment issue and so the concern that i have is this i think it should be taken down
 The challenge is to be consistent across the city. We do not have a criteria in place. I think when you're looking at it from that large, I asked you earlier, can we have the criteria that you utilize for this decision? Can that be as the basis that you utilize for the entire city?
 And if you can do that, it makes life a lot easier because I think you looked at the crime. You looked at the number of issues. You looked at the business owners. You looked at the comments from the neighbors. You looked at everything else. And so the things that you all did, you met with the councilwoman at the time. The thing that you did, I think, is a great concept that you can put in and say this is going to at least be the criteria for the city at this particular time.
 Because what happens if to not do that, then people say, well, my area is nuisance and I got this area. And there are a lot of areas that one guy on the way over here called me up and says, well, they're going to do that in their district. Why can't we do it over here? We need this and we need that. And he said, that's a good question. I don't know. And so when you at large.
 I would expect the third district person to definitely vote for that. But when you're at large, there are people, they expect me to be consistent. So when you bring us something here, then the question from the people in the first, what can they do here? The third, can they do it there? Having a criteria in place is excellent for me to be able to do that.
 and so i'm hoping that in the comments that i'm about to hear from you is that i can hear that this at least can be the temporary criteria in place we can put more meat on it because the zoning that you saw this afternoon we have criteria all over the city that's equal to all six districts
 And so we just don't do one here. We adapt it to our needs, but we have the criteria. We need a criteria before we start moving into this area. So that's one of the things. And then secondly, what we're going to look at is for my part is to issue us. Many of the people who came over to Kelly's to create a lot of the problems did not come there to eat. They did not come there to do anything else except to do mischief.
 So just because a place is moved does not necessarily mean that that crowd will stop, especially in the meantime. So the first issue that I want to hear from the city is to make it easier for all of us to vote yes.
 is can this be the criteria that's set in place for other issues number one and then number two what are you going to do to deal with the traffic of the what i'm talking about the problems of the people who will still sit in that area after the building is demolished until something else is there they will still come over there they were still because now it's open space and they still can gather at night and have fun what will we do to protect the neighborhood from those two issues i need to know criteria apart and i also know excuse me please
 I need to know the criteria and I also need to know the issues from that standpoint.
 thank you so the the action being requested is on the resolution before the council today it's not on establishing a blanket criteria for the acquisition of property um on your second question yes we do plan to make improvements to the site to restrict vehicular traffic from the curb cuts at that site once the building is demolished so we are aware of that okay
 thank you so much my understanding then and it's not a question so my understanding is this is not going to be the criteria so that's my understanding
 Councilor Warner. Yeah, thank you. I didn't get a chance to speak this afternoon. I know there was a discussion and question from Councilor White this afternoon about the Market District and any planning. And you know, I think one of the really cool things about this area is that name, the Market District is organic and has been brought up from the businesses. I went to a streetscape planning meeting exactly a year ago because this borders the 4th and
 president mcbride was unable to go so i went and reported back and a lot of the businesses oh mamas and bambers and were there at the meeting along with neighbors and a bunch of the business owners there told me you know we've started calling this the market district you know and it's their idea that the city planning has kind of picked up and continued to run with um there's some really cool exciting things happening here i sit on the redevelopment commission
 As was discussed this afternoon, if we could get this through redevelopment, we've had some hoops and it would take quite a few months to do. But this is right, is the exact kind of thing that the Redevelopment Commission is doing, finding these little gems where growth is happening to try to continue to plant more sprouts and seeds for that growth to continue. Yeah.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. And as the representative in the third district, since I've been on council, I know it's been discussion before, but meeting with the businesses and the homeowners in that area, in the neighborhood, it has been discussion with not only the
 being committed to just making the third district in that specific area like safer, if you will. But this is a golden opportunity because we are working on the corridor of Mishawaka Avenue, who has been on the master plan list for some years. And the neighborhood associations have been in contact with the city and working throughout the years on this project.
 So not only with the expansion of Mishawaka Avenue, you have the expansion moving along down the corridor, talking about where the YMCA closed up. You're talking about the expansion of Farmer's Market. You're talking about the expansion all the way down to IUSB and the zoo. So this has not been a new development. And you also now have NDOT, who is working on the clover.
 So that immediate area is going to be revitalized within the next couple of years. So why not take the opportunity for this?
 transition to take place with Kelly's Pub to make it better? Is this an isolated incident, and should it be the standard for all other businesses? I think you have to look at it individually. And it's great that you're having an opportunity, but right now is the time and the opportunity to make sure that while we're doing the master plan and re-envisioning Mishawaka Avenue, that this takes place. Any other comments?
 i'm just going to echo what you say as someone who spends half her saturday in that corner of town i'm really excited about this improvement um the mishawaka streetscape that's going to happen and as we envision what the cloverleaf new infrastructure kind of changes are going to look like i'm just really excited about what the market district and i too as i
 frequent those places. It's just, it's been fun, I think, to have businesses and residents own that, own that term. So thank you.
 Thank you. I'm excited about it. I grew up in that area on Belmont Street, and as a little girl wondered about that clover, what did this area look like before the clover?
 So I'm happy that this is happening. My elderly parents still live there, and I began to worry about them as the violence increased at Kelly's. I do encourage other neighborhood associations and other cities to speak their mind and speak up and advocate for your area also.
 Thank you. Thank you. Counselor Lee. Yes. Thank you for the presentation. What people may not realize is that in 2019, the Kelly Pub shooting was a mass shooting in South Bend and one of the worst that we've had in our city's history. Out of the ashes, we rise and begin to create better opportunities,
 and and to be able to reimagine an area again, farmers markets that that area or mamas I frequent there. It's it's a place ripe for development. And again, I understand what Mr. Davis is saying. And, you know, as we're looking at these areas and other areas, of course, we're going to advocate for our districts.
 But this begins a process and starts something positive from a tragedy. And people don't realize the fallout of that tragedy. And so to be able to create something positive out of that, I'm excited about it.
 Thank you. With that being said, I would now- Okay. Council Member Black. I would like to thank Council Member Warner for giving me that additional information. I don't think anyone at the council, I can't speak for anyone, I can only speak for myself. I spent many years going around the Bend Farmers Market, going down Mr. Walker Avenue, and
 I am very excited that this development and these plans and vision is being brought to the present just because a person asked a question.
 does not necessarily mean that they don't support what is happening. I think everyone at this table are very excited. It's very energizing when you see what can happen for our city of South Bend when you look from where we have come from. And as I look at what's happening in the 4th District, it gives one hope.
 that we will continue to see the same level of investment and visioning for the other districts as well. Well, Councilwoman, I heard a whisper over there, the 6th District. Thank you so much. With that being said, I will turn and open it up for the public if there's anyone willing to speak in favor of...
 Resolution 2404, please come up to the podium and state your name and address for the record. Thank you. My name is Chet Zawalich. I live at 1219 Longfellow. I've lived there for over 38 years. You stand in my front yard. You can just look this way and see Kelly's Pub there like it's right next to you. So I've lived that close to that business for over 38 years.
 I don't need to repeat the information you've already seen and heard from other people here today. I would like to emphasize to you all how horrific and how such a public hazard that place has become over the years. It's unfortunate, but it has. And I can tell you, I hear these great stories about walking through the Market District and how wonderful it is.
 You wouldn't want to be walking through that area when Kelly Puzzle was open at 2, 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock in the morning. You would take your life in your hands, and I'm not exaggerating. My fellow neighbors and I were desperate. We were in dire straits. We were in fear of bullets coming through our front doors. And we got to that point recently.
 And I can tell you, I made complaints to my good friend, Raphael Morton, who introduced me to Sharon McBride, who introduced me to Caleb from the city. And I'd like to thank those people for all the work that's been done to get to us to this point today. I'm actually amazed that it was able to be accomplished. I want to thank Raphael Morton. I want to thank Sharon McBride. I want to thank Caleb and the other gentleman, I forgot his name, from the city
 who put all the effort in in responding to our neighborhood complaints um and most importantly one of the biggest or part of this process i want to thank is the south bend police department i can tell you we call them constantly you heard how many com you know reported calls were made about this problem bar i can tell you every time we call the south bend police department they came out
 and met with us and talked to us and tried to quiet down the problems that were going on at that particular moment at 3 o'clock on a Saturday night, at 4 o'clock on a Friday night, with 40, 50, 60 cars parked out there, people yelling and fighting and screaming at 4 o'clock in the morning. And I can tell you, I was amazed at how responsive the South Bend Police Department has been throughout this whole situation. And I want to thank those people for their efforts.
 I want to thank again, I'm repeating myself, I want to make it as best I can. I want to thank again Raphael Morton, Sharon McBride, Caleb and his co-worker for helping us accomplish this. And I'm hoping everyone understands the severity of this problem. And this is the best solution ever to knock this building down and get it out of our neighborhood. So thank you for considering this and please vote yes.
 Thank you. Next. Welcome. Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Michael Krieger. I speak for my wife as well, Leslie. We live at 1434 Longfellow and like Chet, we've been there for 53 years. We've enjoyed living on Longfellow for that amount of time. Basically, we were the young kids on the block when we moved in. Now we're the cute old couple walking the dog.
 So we have witnessed many changes in that time, most of them for the better. We've seen young families replace retirees, and these young families have improved their properties to the point where Sunnymead is a very desirable neighborhood. We like nothing better than watching young families with kids and strollers and kids on bicycles out enjoying the evening in our beautiful neighborhood. We've attracted businesses that cater to a younger and younger art generation.
 We have excellent schools, including an excellent university and close proximity to a vastly improved downtown with excellent restaurants. Not only that, we have beautiful parks, fabulous ice skating facility, two great public libraries, a modern zoo, a beautiful and extremely functional fire station with EMS services. We have a grocery store. We have grocery stores, farmer's market, specialty stores and many enjoyable walking paths.
 One thing we don't need is a business that brings in and attracts violence. If not contained now, before one of our resident families is a victim of the violence, it is probable that our beautiful neighborhood could slide down a very slippery slope. The lovely homes will be replaced by vacant homes, empty lots, houses that will be a haven for drug dealers and other criminals. That might seem like the worst scenario, but it's happened in other areas.
 the city of south bend has invested a lot of money energy and time in this neighborhood as in continuing to invest in this neighborhood the area of uh the intersection of twickenham and longfellow being one example that is just beautiful they have they're not even finished yet we're looking forward to the trees that are being played the property values and desirability of have skyrocketed over this past many years as a result of the city investments again thank you for
 Chairman McBride, President McBride, excuse me. We feel that it is imperative that the city protects our and their investment by purchasing this property and the hope that it will be a benefit and welcome addition to the neighborhood that we love. I appreciate your time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good evening. I'm Jill LaFountain. I live at 1224 Longfellow Avenue. That is three houses from Mishawaka Avenue. And my husband and I raised our two children there. We've been there for over 30 years. And you'll notice a lot of the families here represented tonight, we've been here for a long time. There's longevity there because we know it's a great investment. We want to stay in our
 We love our neighborhood and we care about it. That's why we're all here. But I also wanted to tell you one of the things that's been most upsetting in 2019 when we had that large, that mass shooting. It was pretty alarming to be woke up in the middle of the night by gunfire. Not just a little bit of gunfire, a lot of gunfire right outside my front door. Police came and I think one of the biggest things that I worried about, I was looking across the street at my neighbor's house.
 Who has young children and she has one child that sleeps in that front bedroom. And all I could think of was my neighbors who could potentially be victims of random gunfire going through their homes. We wake up in the mornings, we walk out, we look at our cars. Do we have any bullet holes there? How about in our house? Do we have them in our house? The business owners have all had some bullet holes in their buildings. We don't want...
 our neighborhood to become a neighborhood where people are moving out of this neighborhood. It is a desirable neighborhood and we ask for your support. We ask for you to vote in favor of purchasing this property. We see it as an investment and as taxpayers we see it as an investment too.
 And we thank you for your support. Sharon, thank you so much for helping us navigate all of this. I think Caleb as well and Joe.
 They've been really pretty fantastic. But everybody who has taken the time to listen to us and to really hear us, we can't be more grateful. And our police department, Chet, you mentioned the South Bend police. They've been really fantastic. They've come to our meetings. They've listened. They've done everything they can. They've talked to us about things that we can do. But, you know, we talk about walking through that neighborhood and people going to the farmer's market and the market district.
 Well, it's a little upsetting on a Saturday morning after a big Friday night when you're having to go out and pick up booze bottles and drug paraphernalia, and you certainly don't want the children in the neighborhood to be picking those things up. So I appreciate your support, and we hope that you all vote in favor of purchasing this property. Thanks. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Good evening. My name is Monica Tetzloff, and I live at 1232 Longfellow Avenue. Okay.
 Anything else I need to say about myself? Yes. Okay, let me just say why I'm in favor of this purchase. And I want to start with thanks to all of the same people that my neighbors and others have mentioned who put this together. I'm so pleased that...
 A workable plan has been made, and I have visions of our area being so much more beautiful after the cloverleaf is gone. I moved there in 1994, and I've raised my daughter there. She's 14 years old now, and we love our neighborhood.
 In 2019, we were at our faith group's retreat, and we had two house sitters taking care of our house on Longfellow. They are refugees from Burundi, and they lived through war. And we were all mortified and shaken that they had to leave.
 experience a mass shooting going on near our house that night. Then in December of 2023, we were in the house and I could see from my window where the police had taped off Mishawaka Avenue after the shooting that took place in the street outside of Kelly's
 So I know this is going to help my daughter sleep better at night. And all of us appreciate that you have a longer vision in mind and that you can work together to make this happen. So I'm very much in favor of the purchase and the plans. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Katie Elliott, and I live at 1223 Longfellow, just on the other side of Chattangale, four houses down from Kelly's. And I don't want to beat a dead horse here, and I want to respect everybody's time, but neither do I want to take any chances that the council will not vote yes on this. We have our younger daughter is 10.
 10 and she has not slept in her bedroom on the weekends for several years now because of the concern about gunfire. And then she used to sleep during the week in her bedroom, but the last shooting was on a Wednesday night. So I just want to echo the thanks when Caleb let me, informed me that this was a possibility of the city purchasing Kelly's. I don't think I had fully
 Imagine that could be possible. And I hadn't fully taken stock of what it has been like to live with this nuisance building just a few doors down and how we have all habituated our schedules and our lives because of the violence there. So I just thank you, Caleb. Thank you, Sharon McBride, for all of your work on this.
 and to the council for all of your support. And I hear you, Mr. Davis, and I do hope we can apply this criteria fairly and equitably across the city moving forward. And just thank you. Thank you. Clerk Toronto, do you see anyone on the virtual audience wishing to speak in favor?
 I do not see anyone in the virtual audience wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. The same said, is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2404? Please come up and state your name and address for the record.
 Yes, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. And before I address the council, I would like to say I do appreciate everybody who had came out to share why they were in favor of this resolution, because that is what democracy does look like. So although we will disagree and you will disagree with me and my points, I do respect your argument and I hope you respect what I have to say. So council, I'm represented by four council members.
 Councillor White, Councillor Davis, Councillor Morgan, and Councillor Rogers. The four of you represent me or are supposed to represent me. So I'm asking that you do represent me in the points that I'm providing you here right now. So I would describe this bill with one word, disingenuous.
 In reading from this bill, the property has been a point of neighborhood concern due to multiple shootings occurring at or near the property in recent years in history of frequent police calls to the pub. So the statistic that was just given to us was there were 80 service calls or calls to services as it is since 2021. And the way that that was presented, was that supposed to feel like that's a lot of calls to service?
 So as I just said, I live on the 1100 block of College Street. In any few-month period, we could have 300, 400 calls to service on my city block where there's just 12 houses or the New Day Intake Center. There was 1,000 calls to service just last year.
 And there's no resolution saying we need to buy that intake center or shut it down when there was a thousand calls to service at that one property and it shut down all the businesses around it. Instead, you know what you guys did? You guys said, hey, let's move it into an industrial park and shut down all the businesses there. So disingenuous is my word because there's no equity or equality there. Next point.
 Why are we pushing this through the Board of Public Safety? Why can't this go through the RDC and we wait a couple months and go through the normal channels and get more public input and get more  hear more democracy, more people that are for it and more people that are against it? That's what we're supposed to do. Not everybody will agree with me, and some people will agree with me. But that is what we should do because this is, again, disingenuous. AD calls to service.
 It's not a lot. Like I said in the committee meetings, I have people getting shot in my front yard, in my backyard just this year. I had a shooting in my backyard. I had people shot in the corner of Humble and Johnson. That's this in real time this year. No one cares. It's happening all over the city and it just feels like we just want to make one part of the city look nice and clean. Why we don't care about the West Side or the rest of the city.
 And that's how I feel. And again, I don't want, again, I appreciate you guys coming out. And it's not personal for you guys. So however they vote. Thank you. Hi, Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street.
 i guess one of the things i just wanted to bring to everybody's attention um i'm actually not opposed i appreciate that uh they're concerned about safety i think they should be safe i really do and um but there's a lot as we know and we've been here before we've talked about so many times a lot going on everywhere in the city right but
 One of the things that I do want to just make clear, though, is that I'm just concerned about the pace. And I was going to ask the same question on why is it going through the Board of Public Works, but he's already asked that question, so I'll move on. But right now, between civil and city, we actually have 599 properties.
 I mean, you guys have a lot of properties, and that's not even counting what redevelopment has already. So I'm just concerned sometimes about the spending, and there is a lot. And I think to make the city safe, we should do what we got to do. But there is caution to the wind of, you know, $275,000. It keeps coming up and coming up.
 And Dr. Davis, one of your points that you made was great about, you know, can there be some balance? And I know, Caleb, that's really putting you on the spot. You're just focusing on this one thing. But I think it's a point of tension for you to consider that we might want to start looking at that, that we're looking at the city in a whole, especially several of you at large, but to keep the whole city safe. So, you know, I'm not particularly opposed.
 to what goes on, but I do want to just have caution to the wind. We got to be concerned about the spending and how we go about it. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Waddle, do you see anyone in the virtual audience wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to my colleagues to see if there are any final comments.
 i like to make a motion that we use this as a model for the criteria for the city of south bend uh point of order i believe the motion um that i was uh referring to is because yours seemed like it would be an amendment for that the motion is to pass uh there's no other motion on the floor well i'm turning to parliamentarian um because your motion
 It is altered from the motion of passing it because you're putting some stipulations on it. So proper motion at this time would be to pass or reject the resolution. If Dr. Davis wants to make an amendment, he can move to make that amendment and debate. So the problem, could you explain that? Pardon me? Could you explain that, please?
 But you see what your motion was, was not to pass or deny this resolution. After the debate on the resolution, that is the only proper motion other than move to amend it.
 this resolution to include what you requested was to make it a model for the city I can move to amend this then um to make this a model for the city and still pass this something to that extent that's what you're saying I'm saying you can make amendments subject to uh the vote of the council
 Okay, cool. I make the amendment to the subject of the council based on that. So this could be the criteria that is utilized because I thought they did an excellent job in coming up with this for the model of the city and pass this on and be utilized throughout the whole entire city.
 With that being said, it's a motion on the floor. I don't know if everyone is clear on the motion. No. The motion, if I could try to articulate, Dr. Davis is recommending a motion that if the council would consider passing the resolution with amendments to be that this resolution would be a model for moving forward.
 So that's the current motion, but I believe I know we heard differently from administration that this is not.
 a model moving forward that this is a individual decision that was made but that is the motion if I'm correct that is correct like to make sure the fact that I thought there was a good idea I mean they have for what they're turning and what everybody is saying but what the way that this was set up that this could be used and it also goes to the opposition it covers both sides it's that this could be the model because this is excellent the way what they're helping out with those who live along fellow can they this be applied to
 to the whole entire city but this is past and that's what this is going to do this would be that mr balance of question may i ask a question a parliamentary question here um is that the model is that there has to be a mass shooting at a bar and it has to be a bar with a three-way liquor license and then there has to be infrastructure work going on adjacent to the bar
 for it to be purchased by the city is that the the framework you're proposing well it has to be some kind of tragedy or some kind of other issues because there are plenty of them it does not necessarily have to be that but the criteria did not just include all of that the criteria also included many other things that we can look at so therefore we can apply that criteria to that so does it have to be exactly specific no
 But I said as a model for that standpoint. So the many questions that you shared with them, the many issues that they raised, we can utilize that as a model to when other people come up that can be utilized. So there was killing asking for clarification. That's fine. That you're voting. I understand that. Yeah. I would like to direct my question to an attorney. I thought you had to make the motion first.
 I there's not really a motion to me on the floor. What I'm asking is, has there been a motion made? There has been a motion to amend this resolution to amend.
 the resolution to establish this as a model for criteria for other properties in the city down here i can't we can't hear him down here what would that be though are we talking i'm going to go ahead and second this so we can get to the debate and uh on it so uh
 on this motion. I understand what you're going and what you're saying. I think the better way for you would be to put in writing what the criteria and submit a bill right here in this bill. There's no criteria written in the ordinance itself. So there's nothing checked off in the bill. There's nothing written that could be a criteria. So, and I don't think it's a proper motion at all. There's,
 Just saying, hey, this is going to be the criteria. We need something in writing. So I guess I would suggest to you to put together a bill that in writing and formally do this properly through the legislative process. I don't.
 I understand what your end goal is, but I disagree that this is the right way to do it. I appreciate  first of all, I appreciate your second, and so we can have a discussion on it. So I really thank you for that. Secondly, I think that 
 The thing about it is it was also shared by the administration and is shared by you since you're the chair, one of the members of the redevelopment, that this is going faster than normal because a lot of times this goes in that same situation. So I recognize all of that. All right. So typically, this would not even have been a kind of a member of that. But that's why this afternoon I said, listening to his questioning and how he worked with the neighbors, which I thought was excellent. Okay.
 The process that he utilized with that and the way they came up with some of the determination that be a general model like we do in zoning, and I share that you can go back and look at, and we can do that. The only reason I share that and it's pieced together so fast is because this was pieced together at a different speed.
 Typically, I would do exactly what you are sharing, Councilman Warner, from that standpoint. But you all said that you did not want to go that way because it takes faster going this way. I think that was your testimony. And so, therefore, since that was your testimony, that this goes faster when things go faster is not as clear and crystal piece that I normally would do.
 And so therefore we are trying to honor what the neighbors are saying here. And at the same time, when they are looking at this can be the model. So when other people in other districts, like people have said, I heard they're doing that. What about my shooting that happened on my.
 fire that happened, all the drug dealers in my neighborhood and all the calls that happened here, is the city going to do that? Then they can utilize this as a good model that they've worked with their attorneys, they've worked with the families, and they've done this. And this could be the criteria that they could set up to do that. We could go ahead and fill in the meat, but
 given the speed that this is coming up, it's been very difficult. It was public to everybody Thursday and that's where we are. So I appreciate you doing that. I'm just trying to say, how do we do that? And then for those of us who may only represent one district, you don't have to worry about that.
 All right. But for those of us who have to be questioned and all the other neighborhood issues, if I was just six district, I wouldn't even ask this. But after at large and you got to go to places, you just try to be fair with your neighbors. That's all I'm saying. So I thank you. I appreciate that. If this one's already see, it wouldn't come to council would be also. I completely understand you were here. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Thank you, President McBride.
 And I can see the argument that you're trying to make in reference to the model, but for me, I cannot support this motion because I need a clear model. What is going to be, if this is going to be a practice or a model, what is it? And there's no clear model.
 cut, it's been rushed. It's just, this is what I just want it to be. Well, that's not up for discussion. I think Councilman Warner to say, if you want this, research it, work with the administration, get together something that could be a model, something that could work throughout all of our neighborhoods. And I think that would be great. But as it stands right now, I think that these neighbors that are living in this neighborhood have put up with this for years, as we heard in their testimony. Right.
 And this has been worked on for, it sounds like quite some time, so I don't feel that it's been rushed. I see relief on these families. I see a little baby out here. This couple has stayed there with this little baby because they want to make sure that they can live safely in their neighborhood. So for me right now, I can't vote for the way that you have presented it. You come up with something that is a good model, that has equal equity throughout our neighborhoods.
 That's a whole different thing, but I can't vote for it with just what's the model. There's no clear cut definitive answer to that for me. Thank you. Are you Thomas Morgan? Thank you. Can I have a since you since you addressed to me on that? I'm sorry. Since Councilwoman Nagoski was referring to me on that. If you don't mind, can we hear from Commissioner Thomas Morgan who haven't spoken and then you can. I appreciate it. I just.
 I just want to say, I mean, I share with other council members the concern of the vagueness of what it is that we're actually voting on this and what the model is. I...
 To be frank, I'm not interested in codifying what this looks like on the fly here tonight. And I think that there is a real danger in trying to codify something like this. We have I would like.
 as a council member at large, to see each situation come to me to understand the particularities of the circumstance, of the situation, and all the various factors, and not to have one universal policy and have us collecting more and more properties. So I think it's important that this decision resides with the council, with each and every piece of property that
 Thank you, Dr. Davis. Every day, we have to have something that's uniformity when it comes down to all of us who are our hands. And so the fact is, we do have to apply things that are uniformly, whether from the government, from the community.
 Indiana Code, which our attorneys use and everything else. So we have to apply uniformity all the time. The difference is this. When you all have been blessed to have some of this in your districts at the hours of December and now we're in early March. I also have people who in other places, while they have peace, and I'm glad they have peace.
 I see kids every day that are getting shot, have shooting around their houses. And when we have something about shooting, it's going to be principal calls that you may have to be a little bit more concerned. The kids tell me yesterday was we shooting every night.
 So what's the deal? Okay. So just like the other gentleman said over there, he has shooting in his yard, shooting here, shooting there. I hear shooting in my neighborhood. Okay. So therefore, what do you do? And that is why I'm saying to you, it's nice to have some type of plan. We have zoning laws that we applied around here and they have taken another move, which they typically said to you and they confess. This is normally to go through the redevelopment.
 but they switched that to go at a faster speed to take care of this, given the neighborhood, which makes sense. But when you go at a faster speed, it does put us at a difference. And that's why it looks a little interesting because they have said that the speed that normally clears up these kinds of things is not being taken by the administration. Thank you, counselor Wyatt. Wow. What I would like to say and, um,
 I think as we look at how we move forward and we begin to look at standards, I think we need to have more opportunity, Dr. Davis, to look at. I think this is a beginning, but I think it needs much more. And that I'd be willing to work with you and others and the administration to look at maybe a possible template. But what was different, what I heard was that the owner wanted to sell.
 so that the property was up for sale and had been for quite a period of time. So, again, when we begin to look at what is happening with this particular issue, it may not necessarily be 
 we could apply it to others because some of the variables are quite differently, but it does not mean that we should not begin to look at some type of commonality because we do have, you know, shootings throughout the city as well. But what does that look like and what is the role of government as well as looking at ensuring that all of our citizens are safe?
 and that they can live in clean, safe neighborhoods. So it will be my goal is to say, you know, if you're willing, say, okay, let's pull this and look at it, and what does it look like? Because all districts are not the same, and some have different needs and different, you know, areas in which needs to be addressed. So that would be just what I would, you know.
 want to see happen. I appreciate your willingness to join me in that, and I would look forward to that. I would say that the reason why the administration, based on the testimony I heard, is how it came through the administration,
 council person to the administration. Other business owners may be willing to, or homeowners may be willing to give up their property and sell their things too. So therefore, that's nice to know that that just needs to be made known. So that's why it was good to know that. You see what I'm saying? Well, thank you. Thank you. If you don't mind, excuse me, let me point of order. If I can for a second, Caleb, just to address the,
 the lady who's standing there. I'm sorry at this time I've closed the public portion and so there's no additional public comments about this.
 I have a question. I just want to know how you value life because I have a baby, too, that lives in an area. But my baby has come here repeatedly night or after meeting. Ma'am, I have to get in on my mama. Ma'am, the public is life, not his value. Ma'am, I understand that. But no, no, I know. No, I would ask that you come back at the end of the meeting because I.
 publicly closed and formally closed to public comment. So I do appreciate you coming up for that portion of it. If I may respond, because that's not an accurate summary of the way that this...
 conversation occurred. I'm just saying that as a member of the administration, I was invited. Dr. Davis is not a public, he's administration. And you know the process when you've been on a council, that administration has every opportunity to respond. And when the public portion of closed, the public cannot speak. You've been a past president, vice president, council member, so you know the process. And you also know the process
 when you're rushing something that's fast, that is not as pretty. Look, you made your comments. We have other counsel. If you're going to utilize my presidency in that to do that, you have to also consider that with your state. Point of order, please. I need you. We have other counsel who wish to speak as well, and then we will get to the vote. That is fine, but you also state, point of order, we cannot utilize call people out with things about themselves. I'm sorry, okay.
 You started talking about, you know, things based on your past president stuff in your rules that you shared. You cannot call out things and things like that. Those kind of things happen. The ones that you showed at the beginning, what we cannot do in terms of those kind of things. I call the question. First of all, I have counselor Bolden Simpson, who has been patiently waiting. So I would like for her to speak, please. Thank you. I want the people in the Sun and Mead area to know.
 that I'm coming from, my parents have lived there on Belmont for 50 years. So I want you to be safe. On the other hand, my heart quivered when I believe the lady there talked about her daughter feeling unsafe to sleep in her bedroom. And I teach at a school where I have lots of students that feel unsafe.
 So on one hand, from a guidance counselor and former principal, I understand what you're saying, Dr. Davis, completely. But I think at this time that we need to work together to get some criteria where we can apply this to other neighborhoods. I'm the representative in the fifth district. And if this was happening in my district, I would want the same. But here's this is this is.
 This is what's happening. Some people are more engaged in the political process and you get what you kind of get what you want. And other people who feel disengaged because they don't feel that their voice is going to be heard. Yet they're hurting all the same and they don't come here and organize still.
 Especially the representatives at large have to represent these people because we all have dignity. So please, we are not saying that one baby's life is more than other people lives.
 are worthy of dignity and we're doing the best we can. But at this moment, I will work with you on getting a template because I think there are a lot of working parts here. For instance, every neighborhood, I think this is the only neighborhood that has a big old clover leaf
 in the midst of it. Okay. And I know that played a part in it. So we're going to work together to get a template because we want all our children, especially our children to be safe.
 So they can learn in school. Well said. Thank you. I cried before it gets lost. Councilman Warner called the question. So that goes to an immediate vote without further debate. Thank you. I appreciate that. Clerk Toronto, there was a motion on the floor in a second. Can we have the roll call or do you need clarification? Yes, of course. Council Member Lee.
 we're voting on on to amend this day council member dr davis hi council member warner no council member bolden simpson nay council member white nay council member thomas morgan nay council member good and rogers vice president naskowski nay president mcbride nay i have seven nades and two a's
 two two did you call everyone come by myself did everyone vote sorry there is one there is there are eight nays and one eye I apologize thank you make a motion to adopt resolution 24-04 second motion has been moved in second and clerk Toronto the role please Council member Thomas Morgan aye Council member White aye Council member Warner aye
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Regretfully nay. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. I have eight ayes and one nay. Thank you. Resolution 2404 has been adopted.
 Clerk, will you please give Resolution 2405 a read? President McBride, hopefully I'm not out of order, but I want to make sure that our discussion is reflected, that we are going to be working to look at, you know, coming up with some workable solutions.
 Not necessarily standards, but things that we would look at as we begin to move forward, especially within other districts as well. Yes, that's noted. And I am certain that reaching out to Mr. Bauer and his staff that he would be willing to meet with you guys. Thank you. Thank you. Clerk Toronto, will you please give Resolution 2405 a reading?
 A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving the insurance of scrap metal junk dealers recycling operation licenses for calendar year 2024 pursuant to Section 4-51 of the South Bend Municipal Code.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? There is, President McBride. Resolution 24-05 was heard in Community Investment this afternoon. And as all of the licenses for renewal have passed inspection and come from with a favorable, it was sent forward with a unanimous favorable recommendation. Thank you. The petitioner? Michelle Adams, Business License Administrator with the Department of Community Investment on the 14th floor.
 I'm asking that the resolution to approve the issuance of the scrap metal junk dealer recycling operations be approved. The following properties or the following establishments have all been reviewed or inspected by the fire department, code enforcement, the police department, as well as the zoning department. They are Alternative 2, LKQ, Pick Your Parts Midwest.
 Big Bulldog Auto Parts, OmniSource, U.S. Scrap and Recycling, Stevie's Enterprises, and Paul's Auto Yard. They've all received favorable recommendations. Thank you. Counsel, do you have any questions of the petitioner? I just have one question. Where can you view the inspections? Are they on the South Bend?
 So the inspections were included along, well, they're not detailed inspections, but the recommendations are included with all the applications. The recommendations or the inspections? The recommendations.
 Each one has a reviewing agency. So, for example, if code enforcement did an inspection, they do not send me the details of their inspection. They just state that it has a favorable recommendation. Yeah, and I was just wondering where the details are. That could be something I could possibly get to you. I do not have available tonight. That's not the details. It's probably not the details.
 if you can find out from the clerk's office president mcbride i believe you need to ask for the recommendation of the committee yes no he did come with the committee report
 Okay, I'm sorry. Nope, thank you. Is there any other questions? I do. I should have come to President McBride. I have one question. Could you just remind, this is up for annual, this is annual license, right? So it comes up. Yes, they're annual and they are all renewals. Thank you. I was just saying, just like there's an annual inspection of elevators and they have a little posting and they say, if you want to see the details of this, go here.
 We do not have anything online available like that, but it is probably something I can get from each reviewing agency if you need. If that's what you would like to see, you can ask. I'll ask you. I'll read this. And see if that's sufficient. Yeah, and see if that will suffice. Thank you. Any other questions? With that said, I'll turn to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2405? Seeing none.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2405? I do not see anyone in person or online that wishes to speak in favor or opposition of the bill. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. Are there any comments? If not, I'll entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2405. Move for adoption. Move for adoption. Second. Second. Second.
 been moving second clerk toronto the role please council member white aye council member lee aye council member warner aye council member bolden simpson aye council member dr davis council member tomas morgan aye council member good rogers vice president niskowski president mcbride aye all nine thank you resolution 2405 has been adopted
 clerk toronto will you please give resolution 2406 reading
 A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 510 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for Momentum Development Group, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? No.
 yeah the bill comes forward with a favorable recommendation thank you patissier eric lavage director of growth and opportunity offices on the 14th floor of this building this bill for your consideration is a declaratory resolution for an eight-year real property tax abatement for an entity known as momentum development group llc it's for property that is located at 510 south
 Main Street which is the corner southeast corner of Maine and Monroe it is better known as the former Salvation Army building um this um property and the resolution before you um is a
 Just another in a series of city supported projects on the South downtown area east of the ballpark. During the 4 o'clock meeting, I made a comment that I should have probably included the Monarch printing building on my map, and I did that, so I was productive between meetings.
 But these are all projects that the council has supported over the last year and a half, two years, roughly. And the Momentum Entrepreneurship Hub is simply just the latest.
 example for what we anticipate to be significant development along these blocks east of the ballpark. The development group purchased the Salvation Army from the building last year in May of 2023. The city had acquired it from the Salvation Army in 2019 when the Salvation Army had vacated the building. It was essentially vacant from that time other than
 the city using utilizing it for weather amnesty program. What the momentum development group is going to do is they're going to transform this building into a hub that includes things like co working spaces, offices for rent, there will be a commercial kitchen in the space, lovely retail space and other areas for the public.
 The abatement before you for your consideration is a mixed-use real property tax abatement, and the total investment for this project is over $6.3 million. The employment impact of direct full-time employment funding.
 for the momentum development group is about seven direct employees and you know conservative estimates by the petitioner is about 60 equivalents for people who would be renting the space and utilizing the hub just some numbers on the actual abatement as i mentioned it's an eight-year abatement
 taxes historically have been zero because the building was city owned and prior owned by the Salvation Army. Now that Momentum Development Group owns the building, if they were to
 but they will begin paying taxes. They would be, that building would be bringing in about $21,000 every year. With the project over the eight years, we anticipate them paying about $350,000 over that eight year period. Meanwhile, taxes abated would be about $840,000. At the bottom of the screen, you can see what our projections are well into the future after 10, 15 and 20 years.
 Basically, the tax abatement is designed to incentivize
 developers to invest in property that might be challenging and that might otherwise not be candidates for development. And this is one of those cases where this tax abatement is important to provide this developer the opportunity to invest and transform the building. Representatives from Momentum Development Group are here to answer any questions and talk about the project as well. Thanks.
 I know we went through a bit of the presentation this afternoon, so just to repeat some of it, you know, we're really excited to bring this entrepreneurship hub to South Bend after visiting numerous places, other cities, and taking the best of all what they're doing and knowing that South Bend, the South Bend Elkhart region can become that for northern Indiana is really exciting to bring the resources, the mentorship, the venture capital, the
 to keep people doing business in South Bend. And so not only doing that for entrepreneurs and our startups and our small businesses, but also doing that in a building that's been underutilized for a number of years on the south end of downtown. It's really exciting for all of us, bring different pieces to the part of the project
 and be a resource not only for those who have certain access, but also those who might need sponsorships, might need scholarships. We want to make sure this is a welcoming place that people know that they can come in, get help they need, or we can direct them to other resources. And we're working with the South Benelka Regional Partnership, with Elevate Ventures, those other organizations that do have resources but may be hidden, because we want to make sure there's a front door for the entrepreneurship, for small business owners, for
 freelancers in our region to know that this is a place that they can go and be and be welcomed and find a community of other folks like them. Nice. Is there any questions of the petitioner? Any additional?
 Councillor Lee? Yes, thank you for your presentation Mr. Glavich, we appreciate it. Just so, I like to always put this in perspective, just so everyone understands and know that right now because it's been city-owned and because it was owned by the Salvation Army, zero taxes and with them purchasing the building now the taxes are estimated to be $20,000 and then
 throughout the first year and think it was, if you could put that back up, it's 147. I just took it off, so I'll put it back up. That's all right, Eric. You don't have to put it. But yeah, I just want to make people understand because so many people always say tax abatements is us giving the money away. We wasn't getting any money. And now we're going to get $147,000 or the current is 20,000. So that's an increase.
 The annual taxes after the project, $147,000. But after 20 years, it'll be $2.1 million. We're getting zero. 20 years from now, it's $2 million. 15 years, it's $1.3 million. 10 years, it's at least $600,000. So again, this is, and it's money that the taxpayer is not, the community is not, us taxpayers are.
 missing out on any money. This is the incentive to give somebody the ideal to invest in this. They're putting $6 million into this building that has been abandoned, and that's going to help bring a professional kitchen. That's going to help bring
 office space. A lot of people are doing that now. And so this is something that uplifts that area. So I just wanted to make that clear and hopefully I did, but zero to where we're going to is a great investment. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, I'll turn to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 2406?
 I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? Mr. Foster, please come up. State your name and address for the record. Yes, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So do you guys have the chart in front of you or can they pull it back up again for the eight years of the tax abatements and the schedule?
 Why you guys are pulling that up? They talked about the job in the committee meetings today. They talked about the jobs that they're going to bring in. She remember how many jobs she remember? Or can you share again how many jobs you guys are going to provide? Like 65. I was just trying to ask. Okay. Do you know how many jobs that they're going to provide? And someone talking to the microphone, please. I thought it was 67. Okay, 67 jobs during the committee meeting today.
 They said that they're going to pay 67 people about minimum wage, and they couldn't give a dollar amount what that was, somewhere about minimum wage. So the $6 million that they're going to invest into this building that you guys are bragging about, they're going to hire 67 people at minimum wage. Can you guys get an apartment at minimum wage? Can you guys live on minimum wage? You guys aren't living on minimum wage. So we're bragging about that. And then what we're going to do is here on this little beautiful chart you guys made.
 We're going to give them $834,000 in tax abatements when they're not even paying their employees a living wage. But let's talk about this tax abatement. For the first two years 
 it's 100% abatement. Then it goes to 95% for the next two years, 90% for the next two years, and 85% for the next two years. And as I brought up in the committee meetings, there's a little footnote at the bottom. This schedule is for estimation purposes only and assumes consistent tax rates equal to those for 2022 payable 23. So they are assuming that
 that the property taxes are not going to increase. So when this abatement drops from 100% to 95%, they're actually paying less taxes because from year one to year two, the abatement's still 100%, but their property values have gone up
 And then from year three to four, they're at 95%. But the values have gone up year, year, year. It's gone up for three years. So after the eight years, their abatement has gone down 15%. But their property values have gone up seven times. And it's definitely gone up more than 15%. So they're paying way less. So we're not giving them an $834,000 abatement. It's way more than that. I mean, it's ridiculous. And you guys will come up here and say,
 Well, look at all the jobs they're creating. Minimum wage jobs. I mean, I don't think I need to say anything else. So the four people that represent me up here, I'm asking you again to vote no, because you guys in the committee meetings, you said it had a favorable recommendation. There's only one person that spoke in the committee meetings, and I asked you to vote no, and you guys passed it anyway. So again, one person spoke out during the public hearing, asked you to vote no, and we'll see what happens. Thank you. Is there anyone else?
 I do not see anyone else from the public in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to my colleagues for comments. Yeah, point of clarification. I did hear some issues regarding the salary issues. I think when Councilwoman Ophelia Rogers
 had talked about it, there was some hesitancy on that issue. Is there any way that there could be cleared up because to have 67 minimum paying jobs in a time when we support fair value or a right to work, not right to work, but all the issues with our labor are issues and all that, that is a concern?
 I can just touch upon the thank you for the questions and comments. I can just touch upon the numbers that were included in the petition. So you know, the petition and the state's form SB1, which is called the Statement of Benefits form, requires the petitioner to identify the number of full-time FTEs, full-time equivalents, and an estimated total.
 total annual salary. So working with the petitioner, they had cited that they would be looking at about I think it was $22.50 on average. So that was their guess that they had provided us in terms of all of the jobs. So that would include both the direct jobs that Momentum Development Group would be responsible for and then their guess as to what the job pay would be for people who are renting the spaces.
 That's $22? $22.50. Per hour. Per hour, yeah. For that. I understand it's in a packet, but I heard what was shared today. And what was shared today was the issue regarding why Mr. Logan and others who are on video and listening may have heard that not everybody sees a packet.
 They clearly started talking about amount of minimum wage. You heard it. That's why I wanted to thank you for bringing it up. That's why I wanted you to clarify that because of the fact that I know what's in the package, y'all. I ain't a fool. The thing is, but I also have to recognize the people out here who may not read that and they actually heard minimum wage. And if I vote on this, which I hope to do, and I vote on 67 minimum wage jobs like this, I will have to account for that.
 So I appreciate you saying that that's $22 plus per hour. Now, only all the question I have with that when it comes to these abatements issues, because there are times when the issue that people do have about abatements is people don't keep their promises. I remember we had Councilman, the late Timothy Rouse. We had a time when we had to bring a lot of companies back to check on things, okay? When people promise us things like that,
 in terms of so many people they're going to hire and so many the salaries they're going to do and all these other wonderful things to get all the points that you have to have to get this what happens when they don't do that when they don't keep their commitments well during the annual review of the forms that are submitted to the department of community investment we make that determination uh
 whether or not they are meeting the obligations that they had made when they when the abatement was confirmed by council
 And if you find that they're not meeting their obligations that they promised us tonight and people are getting minimum wage for these positions or they say 67 and only higher than 15 and all these kind of things and all these things that they promised you that they are doing, they're getting, they're not following their honor. Plus, they're still getting tax dollars abatement kind of issues. Then what then after you've done your study, what do you do?
 Well, my experience is we haven't come across an issue where we've had to, you know, proactively assert an issue of compliance on a person. We do provide counsel the annual report, which outlines how each of those companies or abatement recipients have reported both, you know, their current jobs, the pay them, the pay amounts, everything that's related to what they've.
 the obligations that they had made so you're saying you can you give us that and so the public has a right to monitor the kind of how many people they have the salaries that are going on and then if they're in violation you then can you can we can see it then we can come back and then we can check with our attorneys and everything else to see um is there any kind of clawbacks any kind of issues that we can have because they have violated what they promised us that they
 That would be my understanding. I appreciate your kindness. Thank you for the question. Any other comments? Just one. Well, from my comments earlier today about the wage level, I don't think you're going to find nobody that's going to work minimum wage anyway. It's got to be a little bit more than minimum wage. Let's go forward. Thank you. Anyone else? I just had a question or actually an observation in the packet.
 where they ask about supporting a municipal facility. And I see the Morris, Potawatomi Zoo, Howard Park. Are these, these are things that they're already supporting in our community now? Is that why those are listed there? Yes, yes. Okay, so they're already supporting facilities in the community that support families and neighborhoods? Yes. Okay, thank you, thank you.
 With that being said, I will now entertain a motion regarding 2406. Move for adoption. Passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Based on the clarification, aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nigh. Thank you. Resolution 2406 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado, will you please give resolution 2407 a reading. A resolution appointing the initial community police review board members. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Councilor Gooden-Rogers. The Committee, the Community Relations Committee was given a favorable recommendation. Thank you. The petitioner, I'll turn it over to you. We need a motion to accept the sub. Yes, we do need a motion to. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. All right, petitioner, I'll turn it over to you for your presentation.
 And with that committee, the committee met today and we discussed the police community review board and each district selected their their person. And we voted to send it to the full council of recommendation. Thank you, Clerk Toronto. Would you please read the names of the nine? Um.
 recommended members for the Civilian Review Board.
 Mr. President, I'm sorry, I just want to clarify. The resolution contains the names of every nominee by every member of this council and every member of the past council is from that total list of nominees that the committee makes the recommendation as to who the final appointees should be.
 Should be OK, and after that the substitute names if I'm not incorrect during the committee, all names were submitted and it was recommended for the nine to come tonight for the vote for the resolution. So if I'm not mistaken, the substitute resolution name is the nine individuals that the Community Review Board recommended.
 That's correct. Okay. So at this point, is Clerk Tirado reading all nine names or is she reading the nine from the substitute? The nine from the substitute. Yes. Yes. So Clerk Tirado, if you could read those names of the nine recommended members for the Civilian Review Board. District 1, Sierra Williams. District 2, Komani Thomas. District 3, Kelly Johnson. District 4, Uella Webster.
 District 5, Dennis James Givens. District 6, Clara Davis. At-Large District 5, Joseph Adams. At-Large District 6, Otis B. Davis. At-Large District 5, Cheryl Ash. Thank you. At this time, I will turn to counsel to see if you have any questions. Questions. Dr. Davis. Questions and comment.
 When will they who will call them together for them to meet and how would that go? How soon will they be able to meet and all those kind of things? Who actually the church? Good question. And actually, we have some.
 Pastor Charles King here. He is the Civilian Review Board Director. So he has been on board for several months now, and he will speak when I turn it over. He can actually come up and speak after questions.
 and I turn it over to the public, but he is here. He has been the one that is the director. He has been out meeting with community leaders, faith leaders, the police department, and a whole list of others getting prepared for this time, a long time coming. So he can speak a little bit more to your point going forward. And my comment, it is two things. Number one, I want to thank you and the members here who are already here. Okay.
 for allowing the new people to put a name in. I really appreciate that. I really appreciate, for the record, Councilwoman Valerie Shea, who worked with us 10 years ago. I appreciate Councilman Henry Davis, who not only worked with us 10 years ago, but also worked on the resolution.
 uh the ordinance i appreciate councilwoman laurie hammond who also worked on the ordinance i appreciate councilwoman karen white who also worked on the ordinance i appreciate secretary now buddha judge
 who supported and also signed off on the original resolution back in 2014. I appreciate our mayor, James Mueller, for continuing this effort and by hiring Pastor King, who you just mentioned. I appreciate all the meetings that have been held over the last 10 years. I appreciate our chief of police. Not all chiefs of police would want to welcome this or work with this. But.
 But Chief Rakowski has been on board and I appreciate him and our public safety board. I appreciate the leaders there.
 because of all the things that they have done. I appreciate everybody who has tried to work on this from the time it's been given. And here we are now ready to implement this. This is an exciting moment. And I look forward to the results of this. And my prayer and my hope is that this will continue to build public relations with our police, with our public safety, so we can continue to expand and grow as a city. I thank you again.
 Thank you so much. Anyone else? With that being said, I'll turn to the public to see if there's anyone in public wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2407. Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Charles King III. My address is 319 North Adams or North Niles Avenue is where I'm officed at.
 I just wanted to say thank you to the council for putting things together and selecting. It sounds like we're going to have a very diverse and a very good board, and we're excited to hear that moving in the good direction.
 We're looking forward to, you know, there's going to be a lot of training involved in getting this board ready to operate and function as it should. So it's not going to happen overnight. It may take some time. And one of the key elements is we need to go to this Police Citizens Academy.
 So I personally went and I look forward to seeing the board being able to go to that same training and get the information that they need so they know how the police department works first off. And then just to be a voice for the community. So it's going to take some time. It's going to take some training. And I look forward to seeing this board move forward.
 Thank you. And I know Pastor King, the council definitely supports you. And I know working with Clerk Toronto's office can get you the email addresses and addresses and names of the board. So I think I would request that there's a formal meeting introduction and maybe we can have it at either your location or here at Council Informal Room.
 And then from there can talk about your expectations and if there's any support that you need from the Council because I know you guys will be drafting policy and procedures. So anything that you need from the Council, I know that we have
 Troy was one and Councilor White in spearheading this endeavor along with our attorney to make sure that we're moving in the direction of the ordinance and that you have the support of the council. Thank you. Thank you. Long time coming. So this is a great day for our city. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of substitute resolution 2407? Yes.
 I do not see anyone online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition or resolution 2407? I have Mr. Jordan Geiger. Mr. Jordan, please unmute yourself. Thank you. Mr. Geiger, please state your name and address for the record.
 Jordan Geiger, 302 South Falcon Street, 46619. I'm obviously speaking in opposition to it.
 primarily because I think it's unfair that two of the bill sponsors who were really most engaged with the community and having conversations, particularly with the groups that were pushing for the passage of this legislation. I think it's just unfair that we don't even get to hear from the people who've been nominated, just like we did with the directors, so we can understand their level of experience with this issue, what they bring to it.
 You have 13 nominees. You narrowed it down to nine. And really the public has no ability to weigh in into the selection process. So I think it would just be good if we were able to hear from the 13 nominees before you all just.
 pair down to nine. I know among the nominees, Tiana was nominated by Henry Davis Jr., who spearheaded this bill. She has a lot of experience working in the schools, being a principal, relationships with the community are strong. The IDI is referenced as a training modality in the legislation.
 Largely because of the work that she did going back to 2019. And she doesn't even get a chance to really talk about what she brings to this. Dave, Brian, community psychologists, it just seems like there are qualified people who are not even given a chance to be a part of this. Because this work has been delayed. I mean, it's been like almost four years, two different presidents.
 And it just makes no sense that the public has no way in at this process. And we've submitted guidance from community about, you know, how this should be done. So it just seems like now this is, I don't know, being rushed. And coincidentally, when the two of the bill sponsors, you know, are gone now. Thank you. Dr. Rado, you see anyone else? Tiana, Ms. Tiana, please unmute yourself and state your name and address. Thank you again. Can you hear me okay, Bianca? Yeah.
 am i okay yes okay i appreciate you thank you tiana batiste waddell 330 west colfax avenue um south of indiana and just for the record um just to add to what jordan geiger just spoke to as a nominee who applied over a year ago i was never contacted by this city i was never engaged with a conversation about why i would like to sit on this board
 And as I sit here tonight, just like I've sat at other city council meetings over the years, we're not respected. There's only certain people in this community that are respected, that are heard, that are seen, and that are cared for. And it's quite evident as you all sit there and you work and you write and you type and you just act like you're not even listening to what we're saying. There's maybe one person, two people up there that are really paying attention.
 And it's unfortunate because our kids continue to die in these streets.
 As our schools continue to fail, as we continue to see the unemployment rate among a lot of people, as you continue to push out certain people, you're going to continue to get what you get. And we know you suffer in your own way. So, again, for the record, I was never interviewed. I was never questioned. I applied over a year ago. It hit the paper on Saturday, and here you are already nominating and voting people in. And you didn't even interview anybody. You didn't even ask.
 I didn't even meet the director. There was nothing. Was he involved in making the selection? Did he have any input? Is that allowed? Where's the transparency in any of this? So, again, lived here for a very long time and I continue to be disappointed in my adulthood. This community is not inclusive at all. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else? I do not see anyone else from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition.
 Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to my colleagues. Do you have any comments regarding Resolution 2407? Counselor Lee? Yes, I would also, I think that even though people may not be part of the board, there should be some kind of way to engage and be a part of the process to help people.
 the community and and and and still be a part of whatever efforts this board is going to create so mr king i hope that that that's something to think about is how can people maybe they're not on the board but they can be part of citizens group to help with this because it's the
 This is a big issue and it's an important issue. It's been one that's been a long time coming. Again, as Councilman Davis has said, we stand on the shoulders of a lot of people who have wanted this to happen. Today is the day that we're finally in that step of presenting a board, and we're very excited about that. Everyone on that list who is participating,
 On that board, they bring something very unique to the table and bring experiences to the table. So I'm hoping that maybe somehow that there also can be ways that citizens can be a part of this, even though they're not on the board. But this is a great day for our city, something that has been long overdue.
 hard fought is now coming to fruition and hopefully this will help to build relationships between the community police department and make south bend a better city i'd like to say something as the um
 As the chairperson of this committee, Mr. King, I welcome this committee that was chosen today. I do want you to know I want the police to be in check because I have family members that are policemen. I would like to see them treat everyone like they would want to be treated. I would like to see our young males treated better. I welcome this review board.
 So I hope that when you get it together, that these people that we have chosen step up, show transparency, show the communities that they care. And that is why they are being selected, because we want them to care. And working with this council, we are here to help keep it all in check. Thank you, Councilor Bowden-Simpson.
 Well, I want to thank everyone who applied. And I just want to say something to my colleague and my friend, Ms. Tiana Baptiste. And I'm urging you to reach out to her because she does have a wealth of information that
 I'm not I'm raising her up not to put other people down, but I just I know of her, her passion about this. And I know of her intelligence and knowledge about these things. And I do think that she could definitely be a significant positive force. So if any way that you could use her, I'm asking you to. And I asked the whole thing.
 the whole body of South Bend to stay engaged, remain engaged. Come here to the council meetings if you have something to say. I'm listening. I believe my colleagues are listening too. Thank you. Anyone else? Dr. Davis? Yes. Thank you. Could we clarify how long are the terms of office for the public?
 And will they have to come before us again, like we do with transport boards and the other boards in town? Could you clarify that just again for the public so they can say, is it a one-year office, a four-year office, two-year office, and all of those things? And what happens if there's a vacancy or somebody is not able to go to the meetings? Will the board choose somebody or will that come back to the council? And all of those vacancies, term of office,
 And those issues could you clarify? Thank you. I know. Sure I have an open I can read it if you'd like. Councilor Warner can speak to the terms as I'm sure he has them right there. If I may? Yes. Okay so this is section 2-12.1.13.
 a the review board shall be composed of nine members appointed by the council can you speak up a little bit louder sure number two the initial review board shall be composed of three members appointed to a one-year term three members appointed to a two-year term and three more members appointed to a three-year term after the term of each initial member is completed the comic council shall appoint members with each member serving a three-year term or until their successors are appointed
 but for no longer than 60 days beyond the expiration of their term. Each member may be reappointed, but may not be reappointed to more than two consecutive terms on the review board. If a member is unable to complete a term for any reason, a new member shall be appointed by the Common Council. The new member shall reside in the same councilmanic district as the departing member.
 Such new members shall then be eligible to be reappointed no more than one additional full consecutive term. If the member has served 18 months or more of the original term, all members serve at the pleasure of the common council. So in that vein, I'm turning Warner Councilman Warner.
 Some people are to be appointed for one year or two years, the way you outlined that. When will we come together to make that determination of who's going to be one, who's going to be two, who's going to be three? How do we go ahead and do that? Because that's something that.
 You do as you add. What do we do? My understanding is, and correct me, Mr. Palmer, if I'm wrong, but that is determined by the director of the review board to select those initial terms. So the review board is actually ran by the director. I understand. Our council duties and obligations regarding the review board are basically appointments and then budgetary.
 So, therefore, will there be criteria that he will have outlined for those who will be for one year, two years, three years? So that would all be one of the very first things that Mr. King is supposed to do is create a set of policies and procedures for the board, how the board will operate and function. A...
 Oh, the term is escaping me right now. But basically operating procedures for the board and the complaint procedures and this is way of support. And I know Mr. King has been working on that for a while. And when he makes those kind of recommendations, will he be kind enough to present that to us so we have clarification ourselves?
 and not just to just the chair, but to actually present what he came up with. As again, a criteria across the board of those who are one year, those are two years, those are three years. What the qualifications and all that, because oftentimes we have boards. People think that the board's
 he would still be appointed through the mayor from that standpoint um so the higher on fire will not be of this board but the criteria of the other issues that are there it would be great i like what he said about one of the criteria is to make them all go through the police training which is excellent that it needs to do that but i mean besides that to have a consistent criteria across the board who are one year who are two year who are three year and how do you mix all of that what
 he utilized to make that determination, I think would be very meaningful given the nature of this and how it's going to be watched and all the different factors going along with it.
 Thank you. I know a lot of it is outlined in the resolution of what they are expected to go through in the training. And then it is solely now Pastor King's puppy, if you will, for him to take it and just run with it. And also he has the support with also our attorney Palmer and the discretion of driving policy. So we are still here to, you
 for budgetary. I know that he came in front of
 administration and the Council with a budgetary item, but the Council was also committed that with the unknown of how much that would be, that the Council would also support those efforts. So anything that they need as well, the Council is supporting in that fashion. But from this standpoint, now once the Council have, if this is passed tonight, we are pretty much letting Pastor King do what he does, and we're here for support. And it will go like with any other board,
 after he determines the years and who set for those years, it will come as an appointee of the council, the same way it is for transportation or diversity inclusion or human rights or the redevelopment. That's the role that the council would play that when someone is asked to be placed on that committee, that's the extent of what the president at the time will do is the recommendation of Pastor King. I appreciate your clarification.
 Thank you. With that being said, I will now entertain a motion for the passage of Resolution 2407. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 2407 has been adopted. Nice. Next, we have bills on first reading. Clerk Tirado, will you please read Bill 17-24.
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 922 East Colfax Avenue, Councilmanic District number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1724 to the Board of Zoning and Annexation on 4-1 and then for public hearing and third reading for the council on 4-8.
 So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Any opposition? The motion is carried. Is there any unfinished business of the council? Yes.
 Dr. Davis? I sent everybody a copy. We had a good meeting with Ms. Simmons-Taylor, and we will have some more initiatives that I will be bringing. So, again, I appreciate you and the clerk reaching out to her, and we met. And so that's good. And you already know about the updating the profile and everything else. So I'm at peace.
 Thank you so much. Anyone else? Yes, I would like to remind everybody about the St. Patrick's Day Parade that steps off at 11 o'clock. I believe it's Jefferson and Notre Dame Avenue is where they step off. This year, there will also be, as they do every year, Dying the River Green right after the parade. And there will be some other activities right downtown in the Howard Park area. So it's a great time for all the residents to come out, enjoy the city, and enjoy St. Patrick's Day. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Yes. I want to thank the EMTs that took care of my dad. He's doing better and they were excellent. Also, I want to extend a public invitation to the council to attend restorative justice training.
 And it will be great. It is a commitment of four days, but I do want to extend that. Rise Up Academy is a restorative justice school. We believe in the dignity of every person and every person needs to be restored at some time. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to make an announcement on April the 19th at Greater St. John Missionary Baptist Church.
 We're having our annual fish fry. If you want some good old fried catfish, the best in town, come on out. Tickets are $15. Spaghetti, fish. What date? April 19th. We do pre-orders. Thank you. Anyone else? At this time, I would like to open it up to the privilege of the floor. Anyone who's wishing to speak at this time cannot speak of anything that was on the agenda for tonight. Okay.
 but please come up and state your name and address for the record. Ma'am, at this time, if you would like to come up, you can speak. I didn't want to deny you the opportunity. So you are welcome to come up and speak. David Buggs, 3607 South Main Street, South of Indiana. I was listening over the Internet, but for some reason, accessibility, I didn't have to make a comment.
 So I drove over here pretty quickly. And I'm glad you're here, Eric. And, Caleb, on the bill where they purchased the building on South Main Street, purchasing the building on South Main Street, and we had the tax abatement. And you passed that, and it looks like it's going to be a very good project.
 similar to the project that we're offering in the same area. The commission was here. They're getting ready to buy that building in partnership with several organizations in the city. They paid zero taxes, and they're only going to be paying $20-some thousand after the investment. They were taken seriously, and they came in. They're not even citizens of thethey're not from South Bend.
 We're lifelong residents. We came in to purchase a building to get a tax abatement. The process for us coming to have such a smooth occurrence was not presented to us. We have difficulty from the beginning. We were not taken seriously. And we've been paying $18,000 a year ever since for the five years that we've been in the building. I've listened to the things that were said.
 I heard you, Oliver, about the equity that needs to be presented. I'm not going to talk about the issues. I know about the violence. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the equity that needs to be here for every citizen, especially for citizens of color. How in the world can we make a difference if we, the individuals of color, who's putting forth initiatives to make our city better for people of color?
 And we're not even considered with respect. And I saw others come in from other areas, go so smoothly through a process that it was painstaking for us. We're not a company and an organization. We were two people, my wife and I, who purchased a building to do similar things. And for years, we had to go through issue after issue, gentlemen, to get to the points of consideration.
 I'm not saying it's not a good thing that they're doing. I think the things are needed. But I think you need to be equitable and to make sure that the process is smooth for anyone who comes through it. And the information for them to move forward is presented to them before the process so that they can take advantage of the opportunities that the city has for their citizens. That was not given to us. And I would like to make sure that it's given to others.
 I'm very disappointed, not disappointed in that effort. I'm disappointed in the lack of equity. We have to do something about it. Thank you for your comments.
 Caleb Bauer, Executive Director of Community Investment, offices on the 14th floor of this building. I'll take three minutes to respond to what was shared as I do feel like there is some context to provide related to our work with the Nexus Center and thank Pastor Buggs for all the work that him and his wife have done to develop a really wonderful community center on the south side of South Bend.
 I know that Mr. Buggs, Dr. Buggs, Pastor Buggs talked about tax abatement for the property. And I think I want to clarify with the council that, unfortunately, a tax abatement cannot be placed retroactively on a property. So if improvements have already been made to a property, unfortunately,
 We cannot abate those going backwards. That's why in virtually every case when we bring an abatement before you, it's before work has begun, before a building permit has been pulled for that work. Indiana Code does not allow us to issue an abatement for a building permit that has already been issued.
 We are able to abate existing taxes, and we do that in the form of the vacant building tax abatement. We've had a few of those come before you. They're typically two-year abatements.
 Those are the only abatements that are abating existing property taxes on a property. Otherwise, we are looking at taxes going forward. But for the Nexus Center, I know the abatement is a point, but I did want to note through a development agreement, the city has provided $525,000 in tax increment financing dollars
 to support a $1.6 million private investment from the Buggs' in the Nexus Center. Those city dollars primarily went towards roof replacement at the Nexus Center and development of an ADA entryway. So just for your context, I just wanted to clarify that. Thank you. I just think the clarification comes in the fact that I think Mr. Buggs felt that the 
 It's not just the dollars. It's the process. It's the way he was treated. It's the way his family was treated. And so there are some things that money is not amount of money. It's amount of the relationship. The cure is always in the relationship. And that's what I think he's trying to express why he got in this car to do. I know this is a privilege of floor, but given the fact that administration.
 I'll respond to doing the privilege of the floor. I have to respond because typically doing the privilege of the floor, when people respond, whether they say they love me or hate me or they say they love the administration or not, it's really not the place of the administration to come up here doing the privilege of the floor to criticize the people who have shared their pain. They have a right to share their pain without us responding to them. I'm not criticizing. I was just sharing context. But that you were out of place in my opinion. Can the administration not speak as members of the floor during the close of the floor, Bob? They can't. Thank you.
 Not in my, still out of Florida. This could cause this. Let me just, his clarification was not correct. I did not come up here to what has been given or you think that was given. For me to even get the tax abatement, Mr. Bauer.
 i had to hire an attorney to get the same taxes abatement that others have gotten for the same project that was not correct all right you weren't here so you can't provide appropriate context to fight provide appropriate context you need to do some research before you follow up behind me who was there from the beginning right now
 After that, other places have gotten tax abatements for roof. They got tax abatement for HVACs. They got tax abatements for all sorts of things. I paid, I don't know how many, tens of thousands of dollars before others got the abatement. I paid for them. I paid $50,000 for that.
 I didn't pay for the roof. You helped pay for the roof because you paid for the roof for every other entity that was similar to ours, and it was not granted to us. I had to fight for it. We had to fight for it because we weren't taken seriously.
 The issue of concern that I have and I have now is that when we came up, they asked if we could purchase the building, then they would consider tax abatement. That was before we purchased the building. After we purchased the building, they said, oh, we should have done this before you purchased the building. The process needs to be made clear.
 You would have not have said that to this other organization that came up here if you could purchase the building. They were able to go through the process unscathed and the process was explained to them as they went through each step.
 You didn't give us, let's make it clear, you didn't give us anything other than you gave anyone else. Mr. Buggs, you have 30 seconds. Okay, 20 seconds. And the $1.6 million investment, we satisfied in record time. We did it completely. Even when we got letters from the administration telling us to get things and that we were not on track. The $1.6 million was there. I just want to
 That someone speaks for the African-American and the black people in this community so that they're not always looked at as being a scab on society. That we can do something, but we can't do anything if the systems are not in place to help us move forward. And if the systems are not in place to help us move forward, then we won't move forward. Thank you, Mr. Buggs. Thank you.
 And if you're going to clarify something, come with appropriate information. Mr. Buggs, that is your time. Thank you. Mr. Foster, please state your name and address for the record. Yes, this is Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So I want to clarify something that was brought up during the committee meetings. What is it in relation to? It's a comment made during the committee meetings. So I was going to clarify that. Which section?
 So when Dr. Davis brought up that the minutes were out of order for year 2014, I made a note to myself to check during the downtime. And as of 6-24 today, the minutes are in fact not all updated on the LaserFISH website, the website that the City of South Bend uses to update meeting minutes. In the last Common Council meeting minutes,
 for the year 2014 are updated as of 7-28-14, and they're even not all up to date as of 7-28-14. So we're not even all up to date to the July 28th, and then after the 28th, we have nothing.
 So you said, President McBride, you said that Davis was or Councilman Davis was out of order and was spreading fake news. I didn't say he was out of order. I said that there was misinformation. Sorry, but if I can reclaim my time, you said he was spreading misinformation. We can go back to the tape and play that. But you said you're spreading misinformation. So I made a note of that to check that. And he was, in fact, not spreading misinformation. Those those minutes are not there for the public on the Laserfish site. Right.
 Secondly, I believe if I can clarify, I did not say where. No, and I will still make sure that you have your time. But since you addressed me, I think what I also said is that he can check with clerk Toronto to find out where the minutes are, because they may not be in the same location when he was the former council person. But he needed to get clarification of where those minutes were specifically.
 So I appreciate your thought on that, but that wasn't the entirety of that comment. Because whether it's at Laserfish, Archives, or another location, I don't know where it is. That's why I directed him to meet with Clerk Toronto. Okay, and as I said in my comment, we can go back to the film and the record. So I would like, in part of my three minutes, to the record in the current minutes to show that the 2014 minutes are not up to date as of,
 today, March of 2024, 10 years later. Thank you. And additionally, I do think it is, even if the parliamentarian says that the city of South Bend is allowed to rebut an employee during the privilege of floor or allowed to rebut a citizen during the privilege of floor, it is very bad optics and very poor taste for them to do that to Pastor Buggs. That's just poor taste. Why? He's on the city payroll to come up here to pretty much dismiss
 pasture bugs as concerns. That's just, I appreciate your comment. That's, that's very, do I still have time or is my, okay, sorry, if I could not be interrupted, please. Thank you. Thank you. I just, I remember earlier you asked a question of administration also when you were questioning. So it has to be a distinction of when they can respond and when they can't respond. So, but, but definitely you can continue on with your comment.
 If I may, I asked a question during the bill when there was Bill 2406, and he was a petitioner for that bill. So am I not  are we not supposed to ask the petitioners? Absolutely. And that's not what they do. And I've attended a lot of meetings, and a lot of the people talked to the petitioners during the bill. So that was not something that I'm the only person that has done that. Absolutely. But I've never seen in all the meetings I've attended 
 A city employee come up after after a citizen has expressed concerns. And even the comments today where you keep interjecting right now, I find that kind of hostile, if you will. You're not you're not letting me get my my work. I'm actually agreeing with you. So that's not hostile. I'm saying you're correct. So that is nothing hostile. I am agreeing with what you're saying. And I'm taking note. It is on record what your points are. So I don't have a hostile tone. I am totally agreeing with you.
 So if I may. Absolutely. Okay. So to recap, our 2014 minutes are not up to date, as Councilman Oliver Davis said in the earlier minutes or in the earlier committee meetings. And I do find it very in bad taste for the administration to come up and rebut a resident. So like if I were to go sit down right now, should someone from the mayor's office come up and rebut what I just said? That would be in very poor form.
 Thank you for your comment. Is there anyone else? No, you're good. I'm sorry. Oh, you heard it right. Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Is there any other comments? My question is directed to Pastor Buggs. So what I would like to know from you, are you saying in plain layman's terms that there's two standards? Is that what you said? Would you answer that for me, please? Yes.
 in plainly layman's terms there is definitely two standards so you there's two standards has been here they persist and they will remain until an act of means to end that occurs thank you that's what i was asking thank you thank you is there a clerk toronto do you see anyone on line wishing to speak at the privilege of the floor
 I do not see anyone online wishing to speak under privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that being said, and that's what restorative justice is about, about the dignity of people and dignifying their experience. Thank you, everybody. Have a good night.