Order clerk Jones. I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Can everyone hear me? Can everyone hear me now? Speak up a little bit louder. OK, good evening members of the public for audio quality. We will be muting.
 For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert your name and your address into the chat and the topic you want to talk on, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Also, please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Due to the executive order of Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the Saupin Common Council meeting legally held by way of a virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams application. At this time, our invocation will be given by Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Thank you, Chair White. If you would bow your heads with me. Dear Gracious Heavenly Father, we ask today that you would be with us as we begin to work on the business of the city. God, we know that there has been an outbreak of violence, so we ask God that you would allow your spirit of peace to be upon our city. We ask God that you would allow all of us as council members to be able to work together.
 peacefully and to be able to accomplish those goals that we've set. We ask that you would bless our city. We ask that you would bless this community. We ask that you would bless every individual that's connected with our government. We ask God that as we work for the people, that we would receive supernatural results to work on the issues of the day.
 and we just pray that you would bind us together with cords that cannot be broken and that we would all join together in the mission of moving South Bend forward. In your son Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Councilman Lee. We'll now move to the roll call. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis? Henry's here. Councilmember Lee? Present. Councilmember Warner? Present. Thank you.
 council member wax president council member nizgatsky council member tomas morgan president council member hammond president vice president mcbride president president white president nine present thank you clerk jones we'll now move on minutes clerk jones will you please read the report from the subcommittee on minutes yes
 Report of subcommittee on minutes to the Common Council of the City of South Bend. The subcommittee has inspected the minutes of February 22nd, 2021 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. Before asking for a motion, Clerk Jones, I want to make sure you mention the minutes from the February 22nd meeting. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Is there a motion to accept the minutes from the February 22nd meeting? So moved. Is there a second? Second. There's a motion and has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Niesgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye.
 9 ayes. Thank you. The February 22nd minutes of the South Bend Common Council meeting have been accepted. We'll now move to special business. We have two special resolutions under special business. Clerk Jones, will you please read Bill 21-12? Yes. 21-12, a special resolution of the South Bend Common Council
 honoring South Bend's own Eva Jones Young during Women's History Month for her historic athletic career. Claire Jones, the first special resolution is 21-12, the special resolution honoring the South Bend, Washington Lady Panthers. That's 21-12. That's the first special resolution that we have on the agenda. 21-12.
 Okay, I'm sorry. I apologize. Oh, that's no problem. Will you please read that one? I can't hear you. School basketball team for its success in the 2021 basketball season and in the Indiana State basketball tournament. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilmember Henry Davis Jr. is the presenter of the special resolution. Councilmember Davis? I'm here. Am I on? Okay.
 Hello? Yes, we do hear you. Okay, great. Okay, you can hear me. Okay, I didn't know if I got through or not. But I wanted to acknowledge the fact that members from the community, do we have anyone from Washington High School that is in the waiting room or online right now? Clerk Jones?
 Yeah, we're all here. Oh, you're all there. Okay, great. So what I want to do after I get done reading it, I'm going to ask you guys for comment. And then thereafter, there will be, you know, discussion between the council, obviously congratulate the team, and also from the community. So this is a bit of a process, but you get to participate and just not only listen, but you get to participate. So thank you for joining us.
 This is a special proclamation awarded by the South Bend Council member honoring the South Bend Washington Lady Panthers high school South Bend Washington Lady Panther high school basketball team for its success in the 2021 basketball season in an Indiana State basketball tournament whereas each 2020.
 The 2021 athletic season at every level has been described as a season like no other due to COVID-19 pandemic. And whereas the 2021 basketball season has been like no other for the South Bend Lady Panther basketball team for us for a much better reason. And whereas the 2021 South Bend Washington Lady Panther basketball team consists of the following individuals. Seniors Kamaya Robinson, Karen.
 Derova, Francisca, Galacia, and juniors Samara Allen, Milo Reynolds, Lauren Gillen, and Leronda Kendrick. And sophomores Amaya Reynolds, Roshanna Jones, and freshmen Skylar Fultz, Miss Clay, and Lena Hudson. And whereas the team is coached by head coach Daryl.
 Steve Reynolds Jr., assistant coach Marcy Reynolds, together with Karis Phillips, Kenneth Hunt, and Eddie Clay. And whereas the team averaged an early season loss to Michigan-Walker Marion to win the Class 3A sectionals and then beat Lakeland in the regional championship with the ultimate destination of the Class 3A girls state championship game. And whereas the eighth ranked
 Pride of the West Side entered the state championship game as an underdog to top ranked Silver Creek, but was nevertheless determined and confident. And whereas the team battled back from a 12 point deficit in the third quarter to twice coming within one possession of the lead in the fourth quarter. And whereas the Lady Panthers simply ran out of time before receiving the
 They're running up meadows and plaque. And whereas the next year's team returns many of the same players to continue in the footsteps of the 2021 team and to build on the rock, the rock solid foundation.
 Now, therefore, let her be publicly and proudly proclaimed as follows. Section one. On behalf of the citizens of South Bend and the South Bend Common Council, we are proud to publicly recognize and congratulate the South Bend Washington High School Lady Panthers basketball team for this outstanding season in reaching the state three eight girls basketball championship game. Section two.
 We wish to honor each and every one of these young women as great athletes they are and wish them all continued success in the remainder of their educational years, educational years and be it as high school or college level, both on the court and off and in the future careers where they will continue to do great things throughout their entire lives, motivated by experiences and successes they've had this season.
 Signed and approved on this day in March 2021 in the city of South Bend County, St. Joseph in the state of Indiana.
 Would like to publicly again acknowledge and commend a Washington high school the athletic program the coaches the players and Everyone who had a hand in ensuring that this was going to be a successful run as it was and thank you so much for making Our day here in South being worthwhile from your athletic process
 Prowlers, thank you so much for your continued success. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Principal Sims, are you on right now? I am. Yes. You are more than welcome to deliver right now, sir. Well, I want to say, first of all, to the council, thank you all for this tremendous honor in recognizing these phenomenal young women. And this is just.
 Sims, as you continue, could you please state your name and your address? I'm sorry. Anyone else that will be speaking, just share your name and the address for our record. Sure. Thank you. My apologies. Well, no problem. My name is Tom Sims. My address is five three zero zero five Fernwood Drive, South Bend, Indiana.
 Again, I want to thank you all for the tremendous honor and recognizing our young ladies and their achievements with reaching the IHSA state competition. We could not be more proud and more excited for what they've done. I will tell you each of these young ladies will make history, mark my words. They are amazing young ladies, their coaches are phenomenal. And we just want to say thank you all for this time that you've put aside to recognize Washington High School and the achievements of these young ladies.
 So on behalf of Washington's administration, we want to say thank you and we sincerely appreciate it. Mr. Reynolds, I believe your team is there. Yes, yes, sir. Do you want to state your name and any comments? Yep. This is Coach Steve Reynolds. We are all at 4747 West Washington Avenue. Yeah, we just want to say thank you to the South Manhattan Council for this recognition for our...
 All that we've been doing for the city. And so we don't take this lightly. What we have done has been not only for Washington, but for the city. And to be recognized for that is a huge deal for us.
 So as we continue to go on the school year, we have two young ladies who will be going on to, our two seniors will be able to go on to play college basketball, continue to dream in doing that. And we expect everyone else to return
 Just doing well in grades, doing well on the court and so that we can continue to do things like this. So, again, thank you. We really appreciate it from the bottom of our hearts. And again, we don't this lightly and this will encourage us and inspire us to continue to to to move forward. So thank you.
 Thank you as well. Councilmember Davis, are there any other representatives from Washington High School that would like to speak at this time?
 Good evening, President White. May I speak? Yes, you may. Good evening, President White. Todd Cummings, Superintendent of South Bend Schools, 215 South Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard. I want to say thank you first to President White. Thank you to Councilman Davis for this honor, recognizing these amazing young ladies. I also want to say thank you and congratulations to their coach, Mr. Steve Reynolds.
 On behalf of my Board of School Trustees, I know Board Member, Third District Trustee, Board Member Ms. Leslie Wesley is with us this evening. I want to say thank you to Mr. Tom Sims, the principal. Thank you to Mr. Garland Hudson, the athletic director. Mr. Howard Edwards, the district athletic director. But I want to say just how proud we are of these young ladies, how well they represented not only Washington High School, but South Bend.
 we are really grateful for the honor of the council this evening so thank you um very much and thank you councilman davis for for sponsoring tonight's science proclamation are there any other representatives wishing to speak
 If not, I'll go to the public hearing portion prior to coming back to council members, and each council member will have opportunity to give their remarks and comments at that time. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under the public hearing portion? This is Dawn from the clerk's office. I do not see anyone waiting to speak from the public at this time.
 Thank you. I know no one would dare to speak in opposition at this time. Is that correct? That is correct. There is no one that would dare to speak in opposition. Thank you so much. We'll now move back to the council members. I'm going to start with the sixth district representative, Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, and then I'll just go straight down the road.
 Thank you, President White. And for the Lady Panthers, I just have to really congratulate you on your accomplishments.
 You're amazing, you're inspiring, you represented our city well, you are the pride of the West Side, but most importantly, too, you represent to so many other young women out there on what they can do and what they can accomplish together. So not only are you amazing, you're a very important role model in our community. So I would like to congratulate you and tell you job well done. Thank you. Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Yes, thank you, Council President White. I would just like to say that to coach and to the young ladies, cultural notes and to all of the young ladies as part of Washington, you know, going to that pep rally was really electrifying. And just hearing the words that you gave the young ladies was just uplifting. And so,
 Um, though we didn't get the championship, you all are champions in all of our eyes and we really appreciate your hard work, your dedication. I know we've had some rough times at, at, at Washington, but to see you young ladies persevere through all of those oppositions and actually, uh, go to the state championship, it, you took South Bend on your shoulders and we appreciate that. And, and, uh,
 And great things are going to come. And to the young ladies is going on to college. We are believing that you guys will be coming back to South Bend after you get your education and be world changers right here in South Bend. So God bless you. And we are so proud of you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, President White. I just want to add my congratulations to my fellow council members and congratulate you all. Lady Panthers, you are a beacon in our community and we're counting on you to lead our community and our world to a brighter, more peaceful place. Thank you. Thank you. Councilman Eli Wex.
 Thank you. I just want to congratulate you all on an amazing season and accomplishment through a lot of challenges. And I want to wish you all the best of success, both in athletics and academics and whatever you do in the future. I know if you overcame the challenges of this year and succeeded the way you did, I'm sure you will continue to succeed in everything you do. All the best of luck to you all. Thank you. Councilwoman Sharon McBride.
 Thank you. Just want to say congratulations to all of you young ladies. A wonderful job and a special thank you to the coaching staff and to your lovely wife. I know that you guys are doing more than just coaching. You guys deposit moral values into those young ladies and spiritual values and follow with academics. So I just want to say congratulations and thank you for being a village.
 to help instill in those women not just trust in one another but in you all as well. So congratulations to all of you, the coaching staff, and all of your families as well. Thank you. Thank you. Councilman Troy Warner followed by Councilwoman Lori Hammond.
 Thank you, President White. Again, I try not to go the same path as everybody else. I'm going to congratulate your parents and send a shout out to them. I've got a daughter who's a college athlete. I spent a ton of time taking her to practice and
 and picking her up at practice and dropping her off at 5.30 in the morning and picking her up at eight at night. And so congratulations to you girls. And I give a shout out and a huge round of applause to your parents for their commitment and dedication to you and way to go. Thank you. Councilwoman Lori Hammond.
 Ladies, we are all very proud of you. We're excited for the things that lie ahead. And we have such strong hope that we'll return to South Bend and help us to grow this city. And we thank you for all the energy and the effort that you have put into this year. We appreciate everything that you have done. Congratulations.
 I would like to add my words of congratulations. It's so exciting to see each and every one of you. Not only are you talented athletically, but you are outstanding academic,
 set of young ladies and sometimes we lose that. But this group of young ladies, they are academically solid and have a high level of GPAs, but also their character speaks in regards to the work that the coach
 has poured into them, the principals, the counselors, everyone has had opportunity to touch their lives. And so not only have you made South Bend proud, but you've made the state of Indiana take notice that South Bend, we're coming back and we're coming back strong. So thank you so much. At this time, I would like to obtain a motion to accept the motion.
 Special resolution. President Wyatt? Yes. Okay. Council Member Lee had his hand up. Okay. Then I think I saw Council Member Henry Davis. Council Member Lee? I forgot to mention this. I used to go to the cafeteria with GBI with the students at Washington. And is Mila? Mila, let me see your hand. Where you at?
 You might be great on the basketball court, but I used to smash them in neck four and car shark. So I just wanted to throw that out there. Get better. Thank you. Is your hand up? Yeah, you did. I was just want to say that I am even more proud that there is a standard here on this West Side.
 as it relates to academic achievement and also athletic prowess. The standard is greatness and it has been set. This is not my first time congratulating publicly at Washington High School girls basketball team. As a matter of fact, the first four was with the team that Skylar Diggins and so many others were on. I think Karras is part of the team as well. I don't think, but I do know that. But what I want to say out loud publicly,
 We are great on this West Side. We're not anyone's charity case. We're not anyone's problem. We're not any of the things that could be caused to a negative discussion. We are great. We are beyond belief and measure. And I want to, like I said, commend the school, the teachers, the administration, the coaches,
 the children, their parents, everyone that has participated in developing the standard that we are graded upon now. And the standard is greatness. So, again, congratulations. And I look forward to next season. You bring it home the championship because I know that that is what's going to happen. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you as well.
 At this time, we would like to entertain a motion from the council to accept the special resolution 21-12. So moved. Is there a second? A second. There's a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nizhkovsky? Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Yes, and I have you all back. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. The special resolution has passed with a vote of nine zero. And thank you for joining us and feel free to stay on the meeting
 tonight as well. Thank you so much. Okay. I'm now going to ask Clerk Jones to read Special Resolution 21-13. Can't hear you, Clerk Jones. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. 21-13, a special resolution of the South Bend Common Council honoring South Bend's own Eva Jones-Young during Women's History Month for her historic athletic career.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Sharon McBride, 3rd District Representative, is the presenter. Thank you. Resolution on Bill number 2113, a special resolution.
 of the South Bend Common Council honoring South Bend's own Eva Jones Young during Women's History Month for her historic athletic career, whereas March of this year is designated Women's Histories Month, and whereas one such historic woman, Eva Sweet Magic Jones Young, was born in South Bend on July 14, 1964, and whereas Eva won several national championships in karate and has earned a fourth-degree black belt in taekwondo.
 And I'm sorry, somebody's trying to join in the middle of me talking. And Eva finished 1995 and 96 ranked number one nationally in women's black belt, lightweight fighting by North American Sport Karate Association. And whereas Eva had a two and old record in a short lived kickboxing career before following in her two brothers footsteps to become a professional boxer in 1996.
 After only two weeks in the boxing gym and whereas Eva competed in venues throughout the United States and in the Virgin Islands before temporarily retiring in 2000 with a 13 and three and one record with five knockouts in her credit record.
 And whereas Eva returned to the competitive ring in 2008 before finally retiring from competing competitive boxing a year later with a 15-4-1 record. And whereas during her career, Eva won 12 martial arts world championships and became the first woman ever to win three world boxing championships before being inducted into the Indiana Boxing Hall of Fame in 2019. And.
 Whereas Eva's 18 year career in martial arts also included teaching martial arts and coaching young boxers at the St. James Boxing Club. And whereas Eva has also been a positive influence and role model while raising her daughter, Eva Marie and.
 Whereas Eva currently is a local small business owner of Clean America Building Services and champion pressure water and window cleaning. And whereas Eva and her husband, Richard, also enjoy managing a local hobby farm where they raise beefalo chickens and dogs. And whereas Eva is now retired from enjoying her life as a mother and grandmother.
 Now, therefore, be it publicly and proudly resolved as follows. Section one on behalf of the citizens of South Bend and the South Bend Common Council, we are proud to publicly recognize and congratulate a truly historic woman from South Bend who has not only conquered the athletic world, but also excelled as a business owner and a mother and grandmother. Section two, if you can lift it up some more. Thank you so much.
 Eva is an exceptional role model for young women and is justifiably honored during Women's History Month. Signed and approved this 22nd day of March 2021 in the city of South Bend, County of St. Joe, and state of Indiana.
 I would like to welcome Miss Eva Young. She is on the Zoom. Would like to congratulate Miss Young. And we have a living legend among us. Yes. Right here in South Bend. And gave a lot of hope to young women and girls to follow into your footsteps and look up to you. And it is a talent and unnoticed talent.
 that we are proud today to honor you, well-deserved and a long time coming. And we want to say thank you for your service. Thank you for being a role model. Thank you for being a farmer. And thank you for all that you have done to instill the qualities of life for South Bend and being a crucial part of our community. So at this time, I'll give you an opportunity if you can state your name and address for the record.
 Well, hello, everybody. I sure appreciate you guys. My name is Eva Jones-Young. My address is 2130 Pine Road, Plymouth, Indiana. And I'm so I'm just so happy to even be here amongst you guys this evening. I truly appreciate it. And I'm and I'm I'm honored.
 Well, we want you to just speak briefly a little bit about I know we just read your bio, but some of the things that you have done have been amazing work. And I know that you have had a boxing gym. Is that gym still open or are you still working actively? Well, we're not open right now. We closed down in February of 2020. We had over 75 kids in the gym at the time. And me and my husband, Larry Young.
 We ran we run the St. James Boxing Club. We have not opened back up due to COVID because we just had too many kids and we didn't want to put the kids at danger along with the parents. And so, yes, we have not opened back up yet and they are burning our phones up. Well, we thank you so much for your service at this time. I'll turn it over to counsel to see if there is any. Well, first of all, do you have any family or anyone who would like to speak?
 Yes, I have my daughter, Eva Marie. She would love to speak. Yes, she can. Can you state your name and address? Okay.
 Yes, my name is Eva Marie Young-Ray, and my address is 1104 South 30th Street, South Bend, Indiana. And I'm just so glad that my mom is getting recognized because sometimes people don't recognize her for the good things that she's done. And they really should because she's done more than anybody that I've ever I ever known. So I'm just so happy that everybody is starting to recognize her now.
 Thank you so much. At this time, I'll turn it over to council to see if there's any comments. I'll start Councilwoman McBride with the council members. If you would raise your hand or I can start just calling you by names with that word. OK, I'll start off with Councilwoman Lori Hammond and I'll just go down the road. Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you.
 Thank you President White. Ms. Jones, it is such a pleasure and I was fascinated to hear your story and you are definitely a role model for so many young women and we
 We appreciate the work that you do in your gym. Hopefully you'll be able to open that soon. We're hoping that COVID starts to back away so that you'll have that opportunity. But the blessing that you have brought to South Bend and to Indiana, we appreciate you so much. Thank you so much. Councilman Eli Wax. Can't hear you, Eli.
 sorry about that thank you for joining us tonight and i just wanted to uh you know thank you for coming and it's really honored to have you and i just wanted to thank you for all that you do for our community and wish you much success going forward thank you again thank you thank you councilman kenneth lee followed by councilwoman sheila naskowski and councilwoman rachel thomas morgan and then i'll circle back
 Congratulations to Eva Jones Young. You probably don't even remember me, but I used to work at the hospital, at Memorial Hospital. I do remember you. And she, they clean all of the glass mirrors, all the glass at Memorial Hospital, all the way up. And so not only is she, I used to call her the chocolate wonder woman, but...
 Not only is she a great boxer, we would have discussions on how they would get up there and not be afraid to wash those windows. And she said it's good funny and a lot of people scared to do it. So, so Lois Majors is a friend of yours. Yeah. And she really was putting a lot of
 She really was advocating that we honor you for the wonderful work that you do and you have done. And so we're so grateful and so honored to have you part of our community and part of our history. So I'm just so proud to sit here today and for us to be able to honor you because you were just always fantastic.
 fantastic and phenomenal woman that I'm so proud. So thank you. And I'm praying God's blessing on everything that you do. God bless you. Thank you so much. And I do remember you. Thank you. Councilwoman Naskowski, followed by Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, President White.
 Eva Jones-Young, I have to say, listening to your accomplishments that you have, I am honored to be sitting here in your presence. It's just amazing to me to think that you have met all of all of those accomplishments, championships. I mean, to me as another woman, I find it amazing, especially in that sport, that you conquered it and you truly did.
 So for me, it's an honor being here and being able to meet you. And thank you for continuing to be in our community, to inspire the young people in our community, to help give them guidance as they move forward into their life to become hopefully as productive as you have. But I don't know if that's possible because you have quite a list of accomplishments.
 But I certainly hope that they all strive to be the person that you are because your accomplishments are just amazing to me. So thank you so much. Thank you. And this is very well deserved. Thank you. Thank you so much. You're very welcome. House of Women, Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, President White. Ms. Jones-Young, thank you.
 I was tired listening to all that you've done in your life, that long list of accomplishments that Councilwoman McBride read off.
 I think I've known some super moms and super grandmas in my life, but I think you top that. Thank you. Thank you for all that you are in our community, for the legacy that you are in our community, and many blessings to you in the years ahead. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you so much. We'll go to Councilman Troy Warner, followed by Councilman Henry Davis, Jr.,
 Thank you, President Wyatt. Congratulations. I'm very proud of you. South Bend is proud of you. You know, I think this goes to show that everybody in the city has some kind of story. And unless you sit down and actually listen, you don't know where people have been and what they've been through and all the things that they've done in life. It's amazing. You know, congratulations. And it was great to see the pride in your daughter. That's made my night, made my week. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Councilman Henry Davis. It's kind of hard following and being the last one to say something or last few to say anything. So I don't want I'm not going to repeat most of what people have said because I'll be saying the same thing. What I am going to say is thank you. Congratulations. We honor you. We appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you all so much. And thank you as well. We'll now move to our public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in support of the special resolution 21-13? I don't see anyone from the public waiting to speak in support of this resolution. Is there anyone waiting to speak in opposition?
 I don't see anyone from the public waiting to speak in opposition of this resolution. The public hearing portion is now closed. I would just like to add my words of congratulations. And it's indeed an honor to have met this outstanding, outstanding woman. We will be recognizing her as well this coming Thursday. So I look forward to really learning more about you, Mrs. Jones, and wish you the very best and keep up the good work.
 Thank you. I appreciate you guys so much. It is such an honor. I appreciate you. Thank you so much. We appreciate you too, okay? Okay. Thank you so much. I would entertain a motion to accept the special resolution. So moved. 21-13. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Warner? Yes.
 Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. President White. Yes. There's someone's hand has been in the lobby for a while.
 okay she may be for the upcoming bill okay because it's been up no i i was actually wanted to say hi to eva um i had purchased a puppy from her so i'm sorry because i asked if anybody was oh okay i'm sorry there's no problem that's why i just wanted to be like
 Telling you about how incredible she is as a woman. OK, thank you so much. We appreciate that. Thank you. Right. Before going into we have no reports from city officers and before resolving into the committee of the whole councilwoman, Rachel Thomas Morgan, you had made mention that you wanted to make some comments. Do you want to make those under new business or now?
 That would be fine. I can make it under new business. Thank you, President White. Thank you. Okay. I will now entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Is there a second? We have a motion that's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 I Councilmember Lee Councilmember Warner. Alright President White I nine eyes.
 Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that have been given a second reading and public hearing have been first given, have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed.
 Our first bill is bill number 7721. Clerk Jones, will you please give bill 7721 a second reading? Yes. 7721, public hearing on an alley vacation north-south alley between North Mead Street and Eclipse Place running north of Westmore Street to east-west alley.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. There is a committee report. This was heard in the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee, and it was sent out of the committee with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? If you are, I ask that you state your name and address for the record and share with us the key points of the bill that is before us.
 Hi, yes, my name is Amy Frantum and my address is 2629 Westmore Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46628. And the reason why I was vacating the alley was due to safety for my two children due to both entry doors facing the alley that is with three feet from the door, both entry doors. Okay. Do you have any further comments you would like to make? No.
 I'm just hoping that this will everybody will approve it. And I'm thankful for this because it will be the longevity of the safety for the kids. And I appreciate everybody for your time. OK, well, thank you very much. We're going to move to our council members. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? I see Councilwoman Lori Hammond. You have a question.
 Not so much a question. I just think it would be helpful for everyone on the call to understand that this received the approval of the, I don't remember the board, but it's gone before the administration. So if someone could fill in that blank for us. Right now we are under the... Just so we know that... Go ahead. I'm sorry.
 Yeah, right now we are under the questions for the petitioner. If you would like to make a statement once we get through this process, you could certainly make a statement for clarification. No, I'm asking her to find the city group that she has met with for clarification for everyone on the call. We heard it and it would be useful, I think. Gotcha. Yeah.
 Ms. Franham, did you understand the question? She's asking just for clarification that with the City Engineering and the Board of Public Works that you had the support of both of those bodies. Okay, thank you. I appreciate you. I'm sorry to seem like I don't really, this is, I'm new to this, so. Yeah, it's okay. I'm sorry, you guys. Thanks.
 Little nervous over here. No, no. So did you understand that was the Councilwoman's question, that you did have support with the Board of Public Works and the City Engineering in request for the vacation of the alley? Oh, thank you. Thank you so much.
 Yes, I do understand. Okay. And so you did have their blessing, so to speak, that it was okay for you to move forward? Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay. Is there any other council members that have a question for the petitioner? Okay. Seeing none at this point, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion.
 Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7721? This is Dawn from the clerk's office, and I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill.
 Okay. And is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 7721? I do not see anyone wishing to speak in opposition of this Bill 7721. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 7721 is now closed. Is there any council member that would like to make a statement regarding Bill 7721? Councilman Troy Warner? Yes.
 Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to thank Ms. Frampton. She had nothing to apologize to the Council about and just confirm that with her materials, there was a letter of support and a favorable recommendation from the Board of Public Works regarding this vacation. Thank you, Councilman Warner.
 And I see that Eric Horvath is on. I would just like to state just for the record, so we all are clear, that that was considered with the City Engineer's Office and the Board of Public Works both supported this vacation.
 Yes, Eric Horvath, Public Works Director with office on 13th floor of the County City Building. Thank you, Council Member Nitzgatsky and Council Member Warner. That is correct that the Board of Works that it's July 23rd.
 2019 meeting, it's actually been a while ago, had approved, or I should say, recommended a favorable recommendation to the council. They did ask in that, that it be subject to them eliminating the alley approach by hiring a private contractor that's bonded to tear out the approach and replace with curb and establish a tree lawn so that it keeps people from driving there and they don't,
 continue to think that it's an alleyway, but it did have favorable recommendation from engineering and from the Board of Public Works. Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome. Is there any other council member wishes to make a statement? So at this point, the public hearing on Bill 7721 is now closed. Oh, I'm sorry. I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7721. Councilman Warner?
 I just had a question for uh for Ms. Frampton if she uh understood that contingency that the Board of Public Works was requesting uh that basically then hiring a contractor to uh do a curb cut and uh add curb there so there wouldn't nobody not be a driveway anymore correct
 I understand that. Thank you. It's okay that I can continue the back of it as to conjoined it for the rest of my backyard. Because the buddy neighbor, his name is Art. He said that he didn't want any parts of the half of the property. So I don't know what my next step would be for him to sign a paper giving up his half.
 because I guess due to finances, he didn't want to be involved or have his taxes go up. So I would be gaining the whole alley. Okay, I believe Eric or legal can help. I believe there's a form for that where he can vacate that. Is that right, Eric? Yeah, I think if you want to reach out to either engineering office, they can get you in touch, but it will go through our legal department. Okay, no problem. Thank you, everyone. You're very welcome.
 Okay, so at this point. I would make a motion. I know you opened it up for a motion and I went backwards, but I would make a motion to send this to the full council with a favorable recommendation with the contingencies that were mentioned by Mr. Horvath regarding the curb cut. As a second.
 Okay, so there has been a motion made and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll regarding the motion on Bill 7721? Clerk Jones? Can you hear me? Oh, I can hear you now. Okay. Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 7721 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. We're now going to move on to Bill number 7921. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7921 a second reading? Yes. Yes.
 7921, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving of a form lease with the City of South Bend Building Corporation, authorizing and directing the execution of the lease and the publication of a notice of its execution, authorizing other actions in connection therewith in all matters related thereto.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is the petitioner present? First of all, is there a committee report? Yes, thank you, Chair. This bill came out of Personnel and Finance Committee hearing earlier this evening with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address for the record and give us the key points regarding the bill that is before us.
 Yes, thank you, Chair Nizgatsky, Dan Parker, City Controller. My office is on the 12-4 of the county city building. If it pleases you, would you like to hear Bill 7921 and Bill 7821 together? I believe we would have to have a motion to do that. I'm not sure if we can...
 Yes, you can. You can have a motion to hear these two bills together just for the purpose of public hearing. Then you would have to vote on each one of the bills separately. So is there a motion? So moved. I make a motion to hear the two bills collectively. Second. There's been a motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Thank you.
 aye council member hammond vice president mcbride aye council member davis aye council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax all right council member nizgatsky aye president white aye nine eyes thank you clerk jones you may proceed now um
 Councilwoman, Mr. Councilman, Clerk Jones needs to read Bill 78-21. Yes. Gosh, thank you. No problem. Yes. Clerk Jones, would you please read Bill 78-21? Yes. 78-21, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating the proceeds of the sale of certain real estate to the City of South Bend Building Corporation.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. And is there a committee report on the bill? There is, Chair. This bill was heard in the Personnel and Finance Committee earlier this evening and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Okay. Thank you, Councilman Warner. And the petitioner is present for both bills. Thank you.
 Yes, Chair. Dan Parker, City Controller, office on the 12th floor of the County City Building. So these both of these bills are related to a proposed bond issuance.
 And what I would like to do with the council this evening is just kind of set the stage regarding the city's overall debt structure and debt capacity, and set up the thought process into why the proposed projects are proposed to be bonded as opposed to be funded from cash or from another mechanism.
 So the overall debt profile of the city, as of the end of last year, the beginning of this year, we had about $225 million in outstanding debt.
 That sounds like a big number and it is a big number, but to put that into a little bit of perspective, this is how we compare to other second-class cities in Indiana with respect to outstanding debt. Particularly, this list is organized by debt per capita, which is a nice way to size the various second-class cities in terms of population. You can see how we fall relative to other second-class cities in terms of outstanding debt.
 We fall, as you can see, somewhere in the middle of this list and maybe a little bit more towards the top side of this list, meaning that we have slightly less than average debt per capita relative to other Indiana second class cities.
 means that we have a little bit of capacity and we have a little bit of capacity to issue some more debt in order to finance the projects that are most meaningful to the residents of the city. When I look at this list, obviously you don't want to be all the way down at the bottom, meaning you don't want to have just a lot of outstanding debt per capita.
 where the debt service payments on an annual basis might be a little bit difficult to make on year to year. But you also don't want to be too far towards the top of this list, because if you're not taking advantage of your debt capacity and you're not out there bonding, issuing debt for the funding of projects, it means that you're not able to do those large scale projects that really have a big impact on your community. So really,
 where we're at or even a little bit below where we're at on this list is where I'd want to be. And just showing that we have some capacity relative to others in our city. Another way to look at this is this is the debt payments and overtime as well as the debt payments as a percent of total expenditures. So that blue line is our total debt payments every year.
 over the past 10 years. And then that orange or yellow line is our debt service payments as a percent of our total expenditures. So you can see our debt payments really stayed pretty flat over the last 10 years. You know, it did go up in terms of nominal dollars from $31 to $34 million. But if you factor in inflation, that $31 million in 2011,
 It's really more like $36, $37 million today anyway. So in terms of real dollars, our actual annual debt payments have decreased slightly, and that's evidenced by the orange line as well, that as a percent of our total expenditures, our debt service payments are very manageable. 9.7% in terms of a percent of total expenditures on debt service is among the best that I've seen as I look at other municipalities, not just in Indiana, but also beyond.
 We have a relatively low debt load, particularly when you compare us with some of the larger municipalities. And that means we have capacity to really issue some debt and do some of the large-scale projects that are going to be impactful to our community. Which brings us to the proposed bonds that we'd like to get Council's blessing to issue tonight.
 So last week at the Public Works Committee meeting, the committee heard Eric Horvath and Jatin Cain from the Department of Public Works talk through some of the projects that would be financed by these bonds. It's primarily streets projects, as well as some additional infrastructure and intersection projects.
 that would really go and jumpstart the city's rebuilding our streets plan, which was released by the administration probably a month and a half or so ago now. So this financing is really to get a kickstart on that financing of that streets plan as we move forward.
 The proposed bond, these are the numbers as they stand today. The most important number on here is that second number of $8.6 million. That's the money that would go to actually fund the projects themselves, the street and the infrastructure projects themselves.
 The actual bond proceeds, the par amount of the bond proceeds at about $9.6 million, as we talked about in committee this afternoon, is probably a little bit high. That's aiming on the high end, and what we do when we put together these estimations is we really put together some conservative assumptions regarding interest rate and regarding
 cost of issuance and those kinds of things. So the interest rate that's built into this debt issuance is what they call a single A plus, plus 50 basis points. So essentially, it's the market rate for single A plus rated bonds and then add to that half a percentage. And given our current market, that came out to just over 3%.
 We anticipate, given just the strength of our issuance, the strength of our fiscal strength, essentially, we anticipate that our issue is going to be quite a bit lower than that. As we've said in previous presentations, we've issued our previous bonds somewhere in the 1% to 2% range, and the market hasn't really moved a whole lot off of that in the past several months.
 So this is to be conservative as we put forward these numbers. We want to make sure that Council has approved a sufficient amount that in case the market changes between now and when we actually issue, we can still issue the bonds. But we also want to make sure that if it is at that higher interest rate, that we're still able to make the repayments.
 With this issuance, I did want to just spend a minute, and we got into this a little bit during the committee meeting, talking about the structure of the bonds. So this is what's called the sale-leaseback transaction. And so you'll notice that the two ordinances that are in front of you, the first one, 7921, is to approve a lease with the South Bend Building Corporation. And the second one is to appropriate the proceeds from the sale of property from the city to
 So neither one actually is directly appropriating the proceeds from the bond itself. And so I just wanted to talk through why that exists or why it's structured that way briefly. So the way that this works is the South Bend Building Corporation
 issues the bonds, the bondholders pay the money to the South Bend Building Corporation. And then the building corporation gives the money to the city of South Bend in exchange for certain assets. So they essentially purchase assets, in this case, some of the streets that will be worked on with the proceeds from this bond from the city.
 And then what they do is they turn around and they lease that bond or those assets back to the city. And we, as the city, make lease payments to the building corporation to fund that lease. So we still are able to use the assets as the city within the structure of the lease. And then the building corporation goes ahead and makes the debt service payments to the bondholders.
 There was a few questions at committee meeting this afternoon, so it's probably worth saying that the building corporation is a separate legal entity, but it's not an organization as you would typically think of it. It doesn't have an office. It doesn't have any full-time staff. It is included in the city's financial statements. It's what's known as a blended component unit organization.
 That's kind of a technical term, but essentially think of it as a related party that we actually include in the city's financial statements as if it was a part of the city. Because for all intents and purposes, it operates in that manner. So the debt, when it's issued through the building corporation, is going to be included on our financial statements as if we issued the debt directly. I'll let Randy Rampolla from Barnes & Thornburg speak to this, if there's a desire. Sure.
 I believe he's on as well. But the reason why we use this structure is to really account for the fact that the issuance of debt through the economic development income tax or that's pledged or backed by economic development income tax, which this debt is proposed to be, is subject to the Indiana constitutional debt limit on municipalities, which is 2% of one third of the net assessed value of all of our property in the city.
 For the city, that comes out to about $16 million. So you can imagine, especially given that first slide where we have $225 million in debt outstanding, that the 16 million isn't really relevant to our actual capacity to repay these bonds. And so we use structures like funding through the building corporation to really account for the fact that we can't issue directly backed by income tax at this point.
 This, although it is a little small in detail, does give the full repayment schedule for the bond. So the bond is proposed to be a 15-year issue. And again, this is that single A-plus rating plus 50 basis points, which comes out to about $780,000 a year in total debt service payments.
 As I said, the proposal is that this bond would be funded by economic development income tax funds. This is the cash position of the economic development income tax fund. As you can see, over the past eight, nine years, it's really increased dramatically, and we're near, if not at, the most cash that we have.
 that we've had in that fund at any point, really, since it was implemented. And you can see also that over the past few years, the economic development income tax distribution has increased pretty dramatically from $10.6 million all the way up to $12.5 million. Just a note that supplemental distribution
 Essentially, what happens is if the trust fund, the income tax trust fund that's held by the state gets above a certain amount, the state is actually legally required to make a supplemental distribution of those income taxes to all local units. And so really over the past three years, in every one of the three years, we've gotten that supplemental distribution, which has helped.
 is one of the reasons why our cash balance is where it is. We don't plan on those supplemental distributions. And certainly as we talked about in committee this afternoon with the impacts from COVID, we're anticipating that the
 income tax distribution in the short term will go down slightly. But over the long term, we anticipate with the investments that we're making in the economic recovery, we anticipate that the income tax distribution will continue to grow over the long term. And as you'll see in just two slides here,
 We do have a fairly healthy coverage rate, actually a very healthy coverage rate. So even if there is slight fluctuation up or down, it's not going to significantly impact or really impact at all our ability to repay these bonds.
 That brings us to the concept of parity bonds. So there are two other bonds that are also backed or paid with economic development income tax revenue. So the first one are the 2015 bonds, and these were issued to fund parks projects. So these were originally $5.6 million bonds. There's about $4.4 million outstanding in those bonds. And the second one were issued in 2018.
 And this was to fund various projects at the Potawatomi Zoo. There's about $3.4 million at the original issue price and just over $3 million outstanding currently. You can see both of those bonds run through 34, 35. So they'll be on for a little while longer. Okay.
 It's also worth noting that note down at the bottom that we are also obligated for about 29% of the debt service payments on the county's bond issuance that they issued in 2014 to construct the PSAP Center.
 So, those debt service payments, 25% of those payments are actually automatically withheld or withheld by the county from our economic development income tax distribution. So, we don't actually directly make those payments, they withhold that from our distribution.
 And that was expected or did is going to reduce our income tax distribution by about $200,000 this year. So the numbers that $12.5 million that I put up there earlier, that takes into account the fact that we are going to get about $200,000 less than we otherwise would have because of this commitment to that we made in 2014. So this is how all of that comes together here.
 This is really what we look at from a financial analysis perspective. We look at the next 15 years all the way out to the bond maturity. We look at all of the debt service of the proposed bonds in the middle there, the proposed 2021 bonds and the two parity bonds. And then we compare that combined debt service to the estimated lit revenues and we calculate what's called a coverage ratio. And that coverage ratio, which is the far right column here.
 Essentially gives you an idea of how much flexibility you have in your revenue source. So if your revenue source were to decrease, would you still be able to make your bond payments?
 And to give you an idea, I mean, this never goes or just barely goes below 850 percent over the life of the bond. That's a pretty phenomenal coverage ratio. Generally speaking, 250 percent is seen as a fairly conservative coverage ratio. And so certainly 850 percent is well above and beyond what we would want to see to showcase the debt capacity that we have here. Yeah.
 So with that, I am happy to take any questions that council may have or I believe Eric I saw Eric earlier is on if there's questions about the projects and I believe Randy from Barnes and Thornburg is on as well if there's questions for him. OK, thank you Mr. Parker. So at this point, Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner? I believe I see Councilman Henry Davis.
 Sure. The question I have, it has something to do with the amount of money that's being paid out to float the bonds, because there is a fee to float the bonds on the market. And so how much money does the city spend floating the bonds?
 Good question, Councilmember Davis. So, in general, we usually estimate about $200,000 in bond issuance costs. This particular issuance, the issuance costs themselves are going to be right around $175,000. In addition to that, we have what's called the underwriter's discount, which is essentially the fee that we pay to have a bond underwriter purchase our bonds and then resell those bonds to the issuance. So, that's going to be
 to various investors, and that's anticipated to be about $80,000. So between those two, or excuse me, $90,000. So between those two, we're looking at about $265,000. The last question I have, it has something to do with the healthiness of our financial. Do we have enough capital
 to do this without floating bonds. We seem to have like float a lot of bonds. Over the last five years, there's been a lot of bond influence for various projects. And so right now I'm just looking at, because these bills do come due, they do. And there are some coming due soon. And so I'm just wondering, given the financial forecast, the different things that we've talked about over the last year or so,
 What are we? I know we have to be healthy enough to ask for the bond. And obviously we have enough health or we're healthy enough to float the bond. But I'm still questioning the I guess the temperature that we're that we are filling right now. And why are we continuing to like folk bonds and not spend money out of the TIF districts?
 Sure, yeah. So the answer to that question is yes, we're in a good position to float bonds right now. Actually, while we've issued a lot of bonds over the last five years, in totality, our total debt service payments annually in terms of real dollars have pretty
 much stayed flat or even gone down a little bit. Um, so we're, we're in a good position. And the answer to why we might, uh, put out a bond right now, as opposed to spending some of the cash that we have on hand. So you saw the slide that shows our cash increasing. Um, the reason why we would do that is, is, is a couple of reasons. One, uh, we want to make sure that we're maintaining that cap, those cash reserves. Those are important for a lot of reasons. Uh,
 not least of which is because when we do go out to the bond market, that helps our bond rating to have those strong cash reserves. But it also just is good fiscal sense because it makes sure that if there is any issues with respect to
 revenue decreases, we're able to not have as quickly feel the impacts of those revenue decreases. So one of the benefits that we saw really out of the COVID crisis, even though we are going to see some income tax decreases is that we were kind of able to smooth out any kind of cost reduction related to those income tax decreases because we can fund any deficits from cash reserves. So we wanna make sure we have those cash reserves.
 And it's in terms of why we would want to issue, it's sort of similar. The mayor made this analogy, too, which I think is a good one. Sort of similar to somebody who has as a has the cash to buy a new car, but interest rates are really good. And you might borrow money to buy the car just even though you have the cash to finance it.
 because interest rates are really good, and so you can use your money in other ways. That's kind of the situation that we're in. Interest rates continue to be pretty good, and so it makes sense to borrow this money as opposed to use the cash that we have on hand. Thank you. And I seen the next person who had their hand up was Councilmember Hammond. Did you still have a question? Yes, I was wondering something very similar in terms of the remaining bonds that
 projects such as the smart streets and the amount of money that the city put in for the remodeling of the library. How far along are those payments and how does that work into this? Sure yeah so and I can get you the repayment schedules in full on both of those are actually any of our debt schedules but
 But those are funded by different revenue sources. So the library bond was funded or is backed by TIF revenue. So that is being funded through TIF, whereas this is economic development income tax. The Smart Streets, I have to look back to see where that's funded from. I can't remember. Also a TIF bond. That's what I thought. I didn't want to say it and be wrong, but thank you, Eric.
 So those are TIF funds. So it's just a different revenue source. And so they're sort of to a certain extent treated independently, but they both relate to that overall picture of total debt outstanding and total annual debt service payments as a percent of expenditures, which is a metric that we do track pretty closely. Thank you. Are there any other council members that have a question for Mr. Parker? Okay, seeing none at this time, we're going to go to the public hearing portion.
 Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7821 or 7921? This is Dawn from the clerk's office, and I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill. No.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 7821 or 7921? I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition of these bills. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, then, the public hearing on these bills are now closed. Council members, is there any council member that wishes to make a statement? Councilman Waxe?
 Thank you. Thank you, Dan, and I appreciate your presentation and I do understand the explanations you've given as to why it does make sense
 to ask for bond issuance despite having the ability to finance this project. I do just want to make a general statement that especially as we have a bunch of issues coming down the pike, I do think that we need to make sure that the city, as they prepare their budget, we're focusing to make sure that we are able to actually finance the project
 the critical functions of the city that we need to do. And streets and other similar projects is really need to be made a priority. And the idea cannot be that we, these are projects that we just borrow for while we spend general fund money and other things. And I know that's not what is happening here. I just think that's something that we should keep in mind going forward. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Wax. Councilman Warner, you had a question for the Mr. Parker.
 No question. I had a comment. Oh, I'm sorry, a comment. That's okay. You know, we've been talking about this bond now since November. The mayor has rolled out his streets plan. I'm excited to get that funding and get that going and kind of agree with Councilman Wax. In 2019, we all knocked on a lot of doors. And one thing I heard,
 At a vast majority of them, it was streets, street school crime. You know, you focus on those three key elements. Do we want to always have to take out debt to do that and get the streets closed?
 No, we don't want to. But I think we're at a point here where we can either take this debt and spend this money now or we wait. These roads need fixed. The paving needs to be done. And in the long term, it costs us more if we hold it off and we wait and we do it later. I also think given the pandemic, you know, the governments are spending a lot of stimulus money. This will do just that. We're going to inject 8%.
 $8.6 million into the local economy. Those are good jobs into paving and streets projects.
 And then additionally, the interest rate is at a level that you almost can't turn it down. And you've got the cash on hand. And then last, you know, President Biden and the Congress has passed the American Recovery Act and we've got some money coming that.
 It's also, I think, is going to give us some leverage to do some creative things with and hopefully get us back towards equal on the debt graph there. And so I support this project and this financing. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Warner. I also seen Councilmember Kenneth Lee, you had a statement you'd like to make? Sure.
 Yes. Thank you, Dan, for your presentation and trying to make sense out of all of this. For those of us who are not numbers geniuses like yourself, I don't know how you understand how to do all this stuff. But I'm very grateful that you're making it plain that, you know, this is an opportunity to improve the city and
 And the interest rates are so low that it's better to go ahead and do it now than to wait later. So and right. And as Councilman Warner said, it is very important that we give the streets and the inner city some love and and get these things established. So.
 Thank you for clarifying that. I was really struggling with that earlier in the committee meeting. So you did a great job of explaining that. It makes sense to, you have the money to do it, but if you can borrow it and use money for other things, I understand that. That's how we understand our natural budgets that we have at home. So thank you for explaining that for us. And we're excited about the progress that's getting ready to be made. Thank you, Council Member Lee.
 Is there any other council members? Councilman Henry Davis? Yes. I only ask those questions for because of a number of reasons. But I'm very clear about why I ask the questions, because government financing is based upon projections. There's not really real numbers there. There are some. But, you know, it's projections. So it's a forecast. You may or may not get that.
 when you're dealing with private industry, they're dealing with the bottom line that's there. It's not a fixed number, but it's very close to being a very fixed number. And so when we're deliberating over numbers, I mean, because that's our job, we're a fiduciary agents of the city. So this is really our job.
 We have to be very critical of numbers. I think Mr. Daniel Parker did a very good job of presenting his case and how he felt like this was a good idea. But it's still up to us to say yes or no. I'm saying that I'm more interested in what happens in the future than what happens right now. Yes, people want information.
 Better infrastructure. I want better infrastructure. I've talked about how I destroyed my front end of my car numerous times on these council meetings because of a pothole. And then I went around thereafter. So that was like, you know, seven thousand dollars, I think, in access because of the damage that was created on the two incidents. So I would be the first to say, yeah, please pave the streets and fill the potholes.
 But what I don't want to do is create such an environment where we have borrowed so much cash, regardless if it was at a reduced rate or a high rate, that we still have to pay it back. It's not free money. And so I want people to understand that this is not free money. And just because the money is being loaned at a very low interest rate does not mean we should borrow.
 It just says that money is at a lower interest rate. And so I am like really concerned about the future and the financial health of the city because all last year, that's all we talked about. And we talked about cutting jobs. We talked about cutting services. We talked about doing all of these things that say cut. And now we're back out here this year borrowing more cash.
 Yes, I want infrastructure. I want update. Yeah, it's a hard decision to make, but I don't want to think that we should put the city's future in jeopardy because of low interest rates. Yeah, I think that there needs to be a lot more discussion. I and we have to be a little bit more critical and interrogate these numbers more than what we have.
 Daniel Parker is going to come in here with a great report because that's what his job is for the administration. I think that's phenomenal. But again, I think this council needs to make their mind up about what happens over the next two or three or four or five years financially for the state. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Davis. Is there any other council members that would like to make a statement regarding the two bills before us?
 Okay, I don't see any. So as we did hear these together, we'll ask for to entertain a motion regarding the first bill, which is Bill 7921. And then I'll ask for a motion on the second bill, which would be 7821. So I'd like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7921. I move to send Bill 7921 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second.
 Okay, so there has been a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll for bill number 7921? Yes. Vice President McBride, can you hear me? Aye. Yes. Council Member Davis? Nay. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nizgowski? Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 7921 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. And I'd like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 7821. I would like to make a motion that Bill 78-21 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second. Aye.
 Okay, the bill has been, motion has been made and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please take the roll on Bill 7821? Yes. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Nay. Council Member Lee? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye.
 President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 7821 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Parker. We are going to move on to Bill 8021. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 8021 a second reading? Yes. 8021, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Aye.
 superseding and repealing ordinance number 10482-16 to establish updated internal control standards. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report? Yes, this bill was heard earlier this evening in the Personnel and Finance Committee and comes to you with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is the petitioner present? And if you are, I ask you to state your name and address and give us the key points regarding the bill before us.
 Yes, thank you Chair Niesgotski. Dan Parker, City Controller, office on the 12th floor of the County City Building. The bill before you is really a reinstatement or a recommitment to the standards of internal control that are outlined by both the Indiana State Board of Accounts
 and the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, it's called COSO. It's really, it's a broadly used structure and framework of internal control that many different types of organizations used and that the Indiana State Board of Accounts has adopted. The background or the history of this bill is that in 2016, the Indiana General Assembly adopted a law that required all local governments to establish internal control standards
 that were guidance, per the guidance from the Indiana State Board of Accounts. And then to ensure that all individuals who had control or influence over public funds received training in those internal control standards. So in 2016, following the passage of that law, the Common Council did adopt the previous ordinance
 the purpose of this ordinance is not to change those standards because the standards have not really changed. The standards themselves are exactly the same. The purpose of this ordinance is twofold. One, as I said, to sort of recommit to these principles of internal control and making sure that our city's objectives are achieved properly.
 our operational objectives are achieved, our financial statements present fairly, the city's financial position, and that we stay in compliance with all government or with all laws and regulations. So it's really to recommit to the importance of those internal control standards. And then also to put the internal control policies that we have as a city within the context of the rest of the financial policies that we have.
 The standards that are adopted or that I hope will be adopted by council this evening will then be translated into both policies and procedures that really are how those standards get implemented at the on the ground level. And those policies and procedures will be published on the Administration and Finance Resource site, which is an internal website that all city employees have access to and
 where they go to find information about how to do their job. So if a city employee wants to know how to put in a purchase requisition to buy something on behalf of the city, they go to the administration and finance resource site to figure out how to do that. And so this is.
 tonight really gives us the opportunity to integrate internal control and the standards set by council as the oversight body into everything that we do and really have it be the foundation of that entire site.
 The other thing which I'll mention is that we are going to also use this as a springboard to, if council sees fit to adopt this ordinance this evening, we're gonna use it as a springboard to re-up that internal control training. So the last time everybody in the city was trained on internal control was back in 2016. As new employees came into the city, we've tried to make sure that they received that training as well.
 but we haven't really done an across the board everybody get trained kind of thing since 2016. and so we really want to say hey our council our fiscal body has recommitted to these standards um and and so we want to make sure that as as our city employees go about their day-to-day work they recognize the importance of that um so so that's really um why we're coming back to you guys with this evening but i'm happy to answer any questions on that
 Thank you, Mr. Parker. Council members, do you have any questions for Mr. Parker? Any questions? Okay, then seeing none at this time, we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 8021? This is Dawn from the clerk's office, and I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in support of Bill 8021.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 8021? There is no one from the public wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 8021. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 8021 is now closed. Council members, would you wish to make any statement regarding this bill? No.
 I do not see anyone wishing to make a statement, so I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 8021. I'd like to move that we send Bill 8021 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and the bill has been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Nuskowski. Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 8021 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Our next bill is Bill 8121. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 8121 a second reading? Yes.
 8.121, Public Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 18, Article 1, Section 18-15 of the South Bend Municipal Code to clarify sidewalk accessibility for persons with disabilities near sidewalk cafes.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 8121 was heard in the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee, which I chair, and that was given a favorable recommendation to counsel. Is the petitioner present? If you are, I ask you to state your name and address for the public and share with us the key points in reference to the bill before us.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Jatin Kane, Deputy Director of Public Works for the City of South Bend, offices on the 13th floor of the County City Building. I would like to present my screen and share a couple of slides to highlight the changes today. Okay, first let me start by saying that Section 18-51 of the South Bend Municipal Code
 offers the rules for the operation of sidewalk cafes in the public right-of-way. This portion of the city ordinance defines the fees for sidewalk cafes, it defines the length of the permit, and also the clearance required for pedestrian accessibility. The ordinance is administered through the Board of Public Works,
 applicants who are interested in applying for Sidewalk Cafe file an application with the board, which is reviewed and then the permits are issued.
 What you have in front of you with this bill are two changes to that current ordinance. And I'll just go through them briefly. The accessibility guidelines for pedestrians come through the pedestrian right-of-way accessibility guidelines or PROAG, which defines the optimal minimum and maximum requirements for pedestrian and ADA access.
 A four-foot access is considered
 The minimum requirement and a six foot access is considered the maximum. A six foot allows for two wheelchairs to be side by side. The city of South Bend has chosen to use five foot for ADA clearance as that allows for one wheelchair and a companion to be side by side the wheelchair and allow for easy accessibility.
 The city is not asking to change that portion of the current ordinance, so the 5 foot clearance will be maintained. What we are asking for are really these two things.
 making amendments to the current ordinance to allow some changes to that five foot access under certain circumstances when there are obstructions in the right of way, and then changing the second thing is changing the duration of the permit from one year to two year. And to explain my first point, let me point to this next graphic.
 If you can see the example of this sidewalk cafe in front of this business, you can see that the cafe has a fence around it and you see the obstruction in the right-of-way, which is a streetlight. This applicant would be asked to maintain a five-foot clearance throughout the length of their fencing except where there is a streetlight present. In that situation,
 situation, they would be allowed to go to the four foot clearance, but then maintain the other five foot through the rest of the duration. In the past, the current ordinance is written so that that four foot clearance must be five foot. So it must be five foot clear everywhere. And what that does is it minimizes
 the ability of a business to operate a sidewalk cafe if the sidewalk widths are limited. And in this example, would severely hinder the ability of this business to operate their cafe. So again, the clearance here is
 Only in certain circumstances would this be offered, but the five foot clearance would remain in place. That's the end of my presentation. Aladin, who is our ADA coordinator, is also present and we'd be happy to take any questions. Thank you, Mr. Kane. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? Councilman Davis.
 Yes, I want to tell Jatin and everyone else from the team. Thank you for speaking with me all online We were going back and forth and there was other things going on in the background So I'm gonna ask this question out loud about the ACLU Article newspaper today. Could you explain that a little bit further in depth for me? I
 Um, Councilman Davis, I have not had any conversations with ACLU, so I can't comment on what was stated in the newspaper. So you know nothing about what was stated? I did read the newspaper article, but that is the newspaper's opinion and I'm presenting presenting the facts to you of what we are proposing to change in the ordinance. Thank you. Are there any other council members that have, would like to ask a question? Councilman Warner?
 I have a question for legal for Alladeen. If Alladeen is on. Alladeen, could you state your name and address for the record, please? Thank you. I'm Alladeen DeRose in the legal department of the city of South Bend. I'm also the ADA coordinator for the city. My office is on the 12th floor in the county city building. Thank you.
 Thank you. So, Aladin, I think my understanding, and it's just, if I am wrong, let me know, is that the requirement is four feet, but generally the city has gone to five feet. We're keeping that five feet except where there are extenuating circumstances which will be determined by city staff in which they would be allowed to go to four feet, which is the minimum ADA. Is that correct? That is all correct. It's a case-by-case requirement.
 study and we will do our best to assure and accommodate those with disabilities. And even in that four feet, that still is legal ADA? It's absolutely legal ADA. It allows the passage of a wheelchair and allows passage with some space left. Thank you. Are there any other council members that have a question for the petitioner?
 Seeing none, at this time we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 8021? Clerk's office, and there is no one from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you, Clerk Sloan. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 8021? There is no one from the public wishing to speak in opposition of this bill. Thank you.
 Thank you. 8021 or 8121? I believe it's 8121. Oh, yes, I'm sorry. Yes, it is 8121. I was on the wrong page. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Okay, so at this time, we're going to close the public portion. Is there any council members that wish to make a statement in reference to Bill 8121? Council Member Warner.
 Thank you, Chair. I also read the article that Councilman Davis was referring to. And I think I know Mr. Falk from the ACLU. I respect him and agree most of the time. But I think it was pretty telling when you went in there and he said, well, I'm not sure if a city whose requirements are beyond ADA can reduce them down to ADA.
 He really didn't argue that this was illegal or violated the ADA law. I think what we're doing is just making some reasonable reductions where necessary. I've heard from some businesses, and they support this, and I support this change. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilmember Warner. I believe the next person that had their hand up was Councilmember Rachel Tomas-Morgan.
 Thanks, Chair. I just want to voice my support for this bill. I think it strikes the right balance of being wheelchair accessible and being business friendly to allow for outdoor seating, and especially during the pandemic where it's been such a difficult time for our businesses, our restaurants. So thank you for bringing this bill to us, Mr. King.
 Thank you, Councilmember Tomas Morgan. I believe the next person that had their hand up was Councilman Davis. Sure. And I'm going to stand by what I said earlier, and I'm going to tell you that the optics on this is not the best. I don't know who called the ACLU to ask them any questions.
 And right now, I'm not necessarily interested in finding out who. But I do know when the conversation about accessibility to federal law and just whatever else could be said about the South Bend Common Council or the city itself making these sorts of moves, the optics gets pretty fuzzy. And I know this job is also political as well as factual. So the optics for me are a little bit off. And I won't be supporting it, but I
 you know, we'll see a brighter day in South Bend. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilmember Davis. I believe the next Councilmember was McBride. Councilmember McBride. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to say thank you for the presentation, Mr. Kane and Mr. Rose. And also I was sitting here visualizing, you know, the Michigan Street quarter, if you will, downtown. The businesses like the Chocolate Cafe, Linden Grill, the Brew Works.
 And seeing that in my mind, I forgot to ask if you guys could have the image of that, because I'm seeing in Navarre Cafe that I can see the outside seating and the light posts and that there's still no impediments in the.
 you know, sidewalk. So I can see that if it were to have a case-by-case basis that we would be in compliance. So I appreciate you for specifying that you will look at it case-by-case, but that I don't think, and if you can answer, I don't think any of those businesses are impeded by any of those changes as I see it right now. And thank you for the presentation. Okay. Thank you, Council Member McBride.
 Looks like the next council member we had was Council Member Wax.
 And thank you, Mr. Cain, for your presentation and for bringing this bill in front of us. I'm going to echo what a lot of my colleagues previously said, that this is I'm appreciative of this bill as it tries to balance the needs to provide accessibility while allowing our businesses to improvise and to do what they need to do, especially in these difficult times. So I appreciate that.
 We're looking to see what we can do to help those who need it while making sure that we're still maintaining accessibility to those who need that extra access. So thank you. Thank you, Council Member Wax. And we also have Council Member Lee. Thank you, Mr. Kane, for your presentation. And, you know, the restaurant businesses have been hit hard, so they've had to try to figure out ways to recover. And so...
 And then we also want to make sure that our individuals in our community that are handicapped, they have the access that they need. So thank you for thinking this through and thank you for your presentation. And hopefully once we get through all of this, again, we'll have a brighter day, as others have said. So thank you for your presentation. Thank you, Council Member Lee. Is there any other council members wishing to make a statement? No.
 Okay, so at this point, I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 8121. I would like to make a motion that Bill 8121 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There has been a motion and a second for Bill 8121. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Can you hear me? We can hear you now. Oh, okay. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Okay.
 Council Member Niesgotsky. Aye. Council Member Tillmots-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. I don't know if I got a vote. Did you call my role? If you did, I'm sorry, I didn't hear it. Um, yes, you said aye. Okay, okay, sorry. It's been a long day.
 Okay, Bill 8121 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Yes. And Bill 8221 was tabled until April the 7th, so I believe that concludes all the business for the Committee of the Whole. So at this time, I would like to entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Okay.
 There's been it's been moved and seconded clerk Jones. Could you please take the role? Council member Warner. All right Councilmember wax. All right, councilmember Nisgatsky. I Council member Thomas Morgan. I Councilmember Hammond. I vice president McBride I Council member Davis. I Council member Lee
 Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 77-21 a third reading? Yes.
 77-21, third reading on an alley vacation north-south alley between North Mead Street and Eclipse Place, running north of Westmore Street to east-west alley.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes, President White. Bill 7721 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much. I will now entertain a motion for Bill 77-21. I move for passage of Bill 77-21. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammonds. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 77-21 has been passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give third reading to Bill 79-21.
 7921, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving of a form lease with the City of South Bend Building Corporation, authorizing and directing the execution of the lease and the publication of a notice of its execution, authorizing other actions in connection therewith in all matters related thereto. Thank you. Council Member Sheila Noscovsky, is there a recommendation
 from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 79-21. Yes, President White. Bill 79-21 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding Bill 79-21. I'll move for passage. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Noschofsky? Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President White. Aye.
 Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 79-21 has passed. Will you please give third reading to Bill 78-21? Bill 78-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana appropriating the proceeds of the sale of certain real estate to the City of South Bend Building Corporation.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 78-21? Yes, President White. Bill 78-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion. Move for passage. Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 78-21 has passed.
 Clerk Jones, we now give third reading to Bill 80-21. 80-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, superseding and repealing Ordinance No. 10482-16 to establish updated internal control standards.
 Councilwoman Sheila Noskoski, is there a recommendation regarding Bill 80-21 from the Committee of the Whole? Yes, President White. Bill 80-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Is there a motion for passage? Second. Is there a second? Second. Second. Thank you. There's a motion that's been seconded. At this time, Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Hammond? Second.
 Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morton. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 80-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you now give third reading to Bill 81-21?
 8121, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 18, Article 1, Section 18-15 of the South Bend Municipal Code to clarify sidewalk accessibility for persons with disabilities near sidewalk cafes. Thank you.
 Councilwoman Sheila Neskovsky, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Hall regarding Bill 81-21? Yes, President White. Bill 81-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now introduce. We have a motion, and it's been seconded. Senator Jones, will you please call the roll? Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 you know i just got lost we're on 8121 yes okay that was the day council member lee hi council member warner hi council member wax hi council member nisgatsky hi council member thomas morgan hi council member hammond aye
 President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Bill. 81-21 has passed. We'll now move into our resolutions. Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 2107? If you need a couple moments to catch your breath, please do so. Thank you.
 21-0-7, a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as intersection of Nims Parkway and Mayflower Road, South Bend, Indiana, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Clay's Candy, Inc.,
 Thank you. This is a confirming resolution, and therefore there is no committee report. I will now move to the presenters and ask that you state your name and your address and give us a brief overview of the confirming adoption of this resolution.
 Thank you, President White. This is Dan Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development from the 14th floor of the City-County Building. Again, as you noted, this was unanimously passed in a declaratory resolution two weeks ago, so I'll be brief. We are talking again about Clay's Candy, a 102-year-old company in South Bend. Since 1941, they've been located at 525 South Spiller next to the ballpark.
 They are looking at expanding. They will be moving to a new location out on NIMS Road. And there is a rendering there of the new building. They will be making over $8 million in private investment, retaining and creating 33-plus jobs in the process of their move. And, of course, carrying a legacy of being a...
 great corporate citizen of South Bend for over 100 years. So this first one, catch up slide here, bill number 2107 is the
 personal property tax abatement supporting a $2.4 million investment in capital equipment for that new location. It's going to include basically an entirely new candy and confectionery production line, steam generators, syrup tanks, piping, dust collection, as well as warehousing and pallet racking and so on.
 That is my present. We have the additional one after this, but just for that personal property tax statement 2107, that wraps it up. Unless Mr. Greg Clays has anything to add. Mr. Clays, would you like to add any comments? If so, state your name and address, please. Mr. Clays, I don't know if he's on or not.
 But if not, we can still move forward. We can move forward. I know he was on earlier. I saw him. I sure did. Can you hear me? Oh, there we go. Okay. Thank you, Clay. Can you hear me now? Sure can. Oh, good. I've been listening to the whole event.
 Your council meeting, and I think in the future, I might have to provide some sweets for you folks to keep you energized to stay up this late. I want to thank the council members for.
 given me this opportunity. Yes, we have been part of the city of South Bend and we are looking forward to the next century here at Clay's Candy and by doing so we're investing heavily in some new equipment, very automated equipment for our old-fashioned sugared hard candy line which is very popular and plus
 the building itself, which is turning out to be very expensive. There's a shortage of steel. It seems like a shortage of everything right now going forward, unfortunately. But we're moving forward and we look forward to continuing our participation with the City. And thank you, Council Members, for
 supporting our request for tax abatement to help with our financing of this huge project for a company our size. Thank you as well. Prior to going to the public hearing portion, council members, do you have any questions that you would like to ask of the petitioner or of Mr. Buckmeyer? Council member Eli Watts. Yes.
 thank you just a quick question assuming everything goes well and i know a lot is not in your control when would the new factory be operational we are shooting for next spring spring of 22. we have not started construction or broke ground or finalized any of that yet perfect thank you thank you are there any other questions from council members i do not see any
 Hands up. We'll move now to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in support of Resolution 21-07? This is Dawn from the clerk's office. I do not see anyone waiting to speak in the public on this resolution. Is there anyone waiting to speak in opposition? No.
 I do not see anyone waiting to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed. Council members would like to, do you want to make any statements before I would entertain a request for a motion? I do not see Council Member Kenneth Lee. I was trying to raise my hand. It wouldn't do it. So I just want to say that we are so excited about this opportunity. First of all, that it's coming to the first district.
 and that another century of delicious candy will will be made right here in south bend i love the story uh greg of of of you know of just those who who have not had a chance to go and see the factory you can see the love in the eyes of greg as the candy is being made and uh
 And I'm just excited that another hundred years or more will continue with Clay's Candy. Thank you for everything you have done in our community. And thank you for being such a great South Bend story. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other council members who would like to make any statements at this time? Seeing no hands raised, I will now entertain a motion regarding Resolution 21-07. So moved.
 Is there a second? Okay, there's a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 21-07 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 21-09?
 2109, a resolution confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as Intersection of Nips Parkway and Mayflower Road, South Bend, Indiana, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for GFC Holdings, LLC.
 Thank you. This is also a confirming resolution at this time. I will go directly to the presenter, which would be Mr. Buckenmeyer, followed by if the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and your address for the record, please. Thank you, President White and Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development, offices on 14th floor of the City-County buildings.
 So this goes hand in hand with the equipment that we just talked about for Clay's new investment. We need a place to put that now. So this refers to the $5,720,000 estimated investment in land and building for that new location on Nims Road,
 And this just phases in the tax burden over a period of nine years, as stated, to give Clay's the opportunity to make these investments and keep their great operation in. So anything to add, Mr. Clay's? Mr. Clay's, would you like to add some comments?
 My only comment is I'm anxious and excited to see this plan come to fruition, believe me, since we've been in this building since 1941. But we appreciate the opportunity in requesting the tax abatement because it will definitely help us move
 slowly get into the increased taxes we'll be paying. And that'll give us an opportunity to grow our sales, to increase the revenues, to pay for the building and taxes and all the other expenses that are going to go with it. Thank you. Thank you as well. Council Members, do you have any questions that you would like to ask of Mr. Buckenmeyer or Mr. Clays? Yes.
 Seeing no hands raised, I'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone present wishing to speak in support of Resolution 21-09? There is no one present from the public wishing to speak in favor or support of Resolution 21-09. Thank you. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition?
 There is no one from the public present wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2109. The public hearing portion is now closed. Councilmembers, do any of you would like to make any statements at this time? Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan?
 Thank you, President White. Just briefly, Mr. Clays, it's a pleasure to see you again. And I add my thanks to Council Member Lee to the 100 years of commitment that you've had to our community.
 We look forward to having all of us on council tour your new factory when it's open. And just to let you know, I've just done all my Easter chocolate shopping and bought Clay's candy. So sending it, getting care packages ready to send to the kids and my children in college. So thank you. Well, thank you, Council Member Thomas Morgan. We appreciate it.
 having you visit us, that's for sure. And we look forward to, once we're up and running, to invite all of you council members for a tour. Thank you. Are there any other comments or statements that council members would like to make at this time? Seeing none, in terms of hands raised, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 21-09. No move.
 we have a motion i second and it's been seconded clerk jones will you please call the roll council member lee council member warner hi council member wax hi council member nizgatsky hi council member tomas morgan council member hammond aye vice president mcbride aye council member davis aye president white aye nine eyes
 Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Plais, and the best of luck. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, and for this opportunity again. And look forward to seeing you on tour next spring. Okay, thank you so much. Well, now Bill's first reading. It looks like the flat blades are going into the mixer.
 Okay, Clerk Jones, will you please give first reading to Bill 83-21.
 83-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, Partial Street Vacation, Francis Street, the east 9.25 feet of right-of-way with running from Howard Street on the north to Corby Boulevard on the south, a distance of 403 feet plus or minus 10.
 uh south bend indiana thank you i'd like to entertain a motion to send bill 83-21 to public works and property vacation and council public hearing and third reading for april the 12th 2021 so moved is there a second second it's been moving seconded clerk jones would you please call the role council member warner hi council member wax
 Aye. Councilmember Niesgotski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you please now give first reading to Bill 84-21.
 8421, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2801 West Western Avenue. Thank you. We'd like to entertain a motion to send this bill to zoning and annexation for committee meeting for council and public hearing and third reading for April the 12th, 2021.
 So moved. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nosgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner.
 Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Would you now give first reading to Bill 85-21? 85-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1119 Lincoln Way West.
 Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 85-21 to Zoning and Annexation Committee and Council Public Hearing and third reading set for April 12, 2021. So moved. Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. All those in favor, I mean, I'm sorry, Claire Jones, will you call the roll? Yes. Council Member Neskotsky? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. And our last first reading is Bill 86-21. Clerk Jones, will you please give first reading to Bill 86-21.
 8621, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 617 North Cushing Street, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 86-21 to Zoning and Annexation Committee for Council and Public Hearing and Third Hearing on April 26, 2021. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. We'll now move to unfinished business. Is there any unfinished business at this time? Council Member Henry Davis. Aye.
 Thank you for recognizing me. This city suffered another person who died from gunshot wounds at this time. It was down, not in the assumed area of things happening, but right outside of downtown on the corner of, what was that, Jefferson and Eddie Street. A very tragic loss. I'm sure the family is devastated. Everyone in the community should be devastated. I've
 said in the Vax, you know, several weeks ago about our plan for violence, how are we going to counteract it? And I don't think that I, you know, received any answers because no one probably doesn't have any answers. And I'm not, you know, pushing anybody to give answers that they don't have. But we are entering into the one month of
 of the year and we do know that violence increases here and everywhere else, but we live here. So I'm just really interested in seeing what's gonna happen and how this is going to work. Are we gonna suffer from the same afflictions and numbers that we had last year? Cause it was very high last year.
 And so I'm just really interested in having a discussion. I don't know if that goes to Mr. Wax with this committee and having a discussion about violence prevention here in the city, or are we going to just not give it any thought, just continue to listen to the news and the bad reports?
 um the other thing that i wanted to bring up because this is a part of the old business um you know south bend um the city invested you know a number of millions of dollars i think it was 4.5 close of five million dollars into the charles black recreational center several years ago district is in the district uh and we worked really hard to uh along with the south park neighborhood association to make sure that we were
 push it for investment over in that area. And we got it.
 Western Avenue, we got Lincoln Way West, and we got the Charles Black Center. However, there's been some things that have changed over with the Charles Black Center here more recently. I think I sent some pictures out to a few members of the council. I'm going to send the rest out later on to everyone else, but the walls are cracking over there in the Charles Black Center. I did get Sharon's reply from an email earlier, and I appreciate the reply, but
 What I have done and what I did before is I spoke with people who have done concrete work all of their lives as well as construction experts. And there appears to be something structurally wrong with that particular development that's over there. We obviously need it because it wouldn't be there if we didn't need it.
 What we don't want to have happen is that that continues on and it gets worse and worse. The floor itself is starting to, you know, will or starting to buckle as well. I went over there today and, you know, what I saw was not good, but what I saw was present when the center, when the new structure was erected.
 So it doesn't look like it's getting any better. There was cracks in the floor then, now it's in the walls. And so there's a growing problems when I'm getting that. And I'm just really interested in finding out more about it. I did get the response that Sharon gave me. I'm really interested in having a committee hearing about this so that we can ask some frank questions and get to the bottom of it. I don't understand if we spend that type of capital
 And these things are starting to happen. That's not necessarily a very good investment. That's a poor investment. So I get this contractor is on a hook for correcting it. But I think the people in the community deserve an answer on why this is happening and what's going to be done to correct it. If there's anything that can be done to correct it.
 So I'm looking for some feedback. I will have a meeting and get back with you on that, Mr. Davis. I'm sorry. I will let you know when we have a meeting scheduled or see your availability of the council. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other unfinished business? I would go to new business first, Councilwoman Rachel Thomas. And then I'm going to make some comments and I just want to share some things as well.
 Thank you, President White. I'd just like to share some comments regarding the Atlanta shootings last week. I have a short statement that I'd like to read, if that's all right. Hate crimes, covert and overt assaults on Asian immigrants and Asian Americans in the United States is nothing new, but we have been witnessing a new wave of hate and violence.
 the March 16th shooting of the eight victims in Atlanta, Georgia, many of them Asian women, should be viewed within the broader scope of racial violence targeting the Asian American community during the pandemic. To the community organizations who came together this afternoon during our committee meetings, the campuses who held prayer vigils last week,
 Thank you for your solidarity with the Asian and Asian American and Pacific Islander community here and across the nation. Let us continue to stand together to condemn anti-Asian sentiment connected to the virus, condemn ongoing acts of hate and violence toward Asian communities and all communities of color, and confront systems that dehumanize and make invisible Asians.
 May our mournful prayers for the women who were massacred on Tuesday translate into actions and a continued commitment for justice and equality for all people who experience prejudice and hate in their daily lives. Thank you. Thank you, Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. And we stand with you as well and with all victims. I do see a hand, Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Thank you, President.
 As a member of the joint committee on to the other two at-large council members as well as Councilman Warner, probably two weeks ago in regards to the next step solutions for the almost 500 homeless in our city, we're actively searching for a viable location to house these folks in need.
 I was hoping and am continuing to hope for involvement from other council members that commit to being constructive and decidedly nonpolitical as we try to move forward to help these people in very desperate need. So just to let you know that this...
 Mission is still underway. We have decided to pull away from the old Madison Center building, but that doesn't mean that our mission, their local location is not acceptable, and we must find a place for these folks to be housed. So thank you.
 Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. I would like to say that I don't know if most of the council members are aware. Our attorneys also are parliamentarian for the council. And we'd like to say that as we move forward, we want to make sure that everyone is treated with respect. And that goes from the council to council and council to our public and also to our presenter. And I will be working with...
 Attorney Palmer to kind of outline some of those expectations. I would be asking for your input as well as we do move forward. And I'm going to ask Attorney Palmer if he would like to add any comments. Thank you, President White. As you mentioned, I'm also the parliamentarian here.
 even though it's a word that I find difficult to pronounce. Me too. And that's a position that's given me under the municipal code. And in that position, I'm tasked with offering advice on parliamentary procedure when requested by council members.
 After the committee meetings this afternoon, I was approached by council members asking for advice regarding two issues that occurred at the committee meetings. The first having to do with two people speaking at the same time, interrupting each other.
 That is a violation of parliamentary procedure. Only one person can have a floor at a single time. Interrupting is not only rude and disrespectful, it also makes it impossible to carry on any meaningful discussion. The second issue that came up as a result of those committee meetings is whether issues that
 should have been discussed during a committee meeting or council meeting that were not fully discussed can be brought up again after the committee meeting has been adjourned. That is improper. It is improper in the committee setting where
 We moved on to President White's informal meeting. All issues should be discussed and resolved during the committee meetings themselves and not afterwards in the informal meeting.
 Thank you. Thank you too. And council members, this is just as we move forward, we want to make sure that we're operating as professionally and properly as possible. I will be inviting each council members for your input. The goal is to make this council be the very, very best. It does not take away your right to ask questions or anything like that. We just want to make sure that we're operating as properly as possible.
 So again, you'll be getting an email from me probably next day or so. And I welcome your input and also your recommendations and your suggestions as well. We'll now move to the privilege of the floor. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under privilege of the floor? There is no one from the public waiting to speak.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. I would like to thank all the council members for a great meeting. Council Member Henry Davis, and then I'm going to adjourn the meeting. I saw your hand up. Yeah, you know, just a resident who was on my phone texted me back and forth saying that she's trying to get in so that she can speak on the previous floor, but for whatever reason, she's not getting in.
 And I'm not sure what link she's using or not, but I'm just putting it out there so that she has the opportunity if she's somewhere in.
 In cyberspace. OK, Claire Jones, do you see anyone or if we can at least get a contact information for her and I can reach out to her? But as it stands now, I do not see anyone. Do you see anyone? I do not see anyone. Councilman Davis, do you have her name? Yeah, actually, I do. And give me a moment. Miss Clark, Bernice Clark, Bernice Clark.
 Do you have her contact information? Yeah, I can get it to you. Okay, just email it to me. Sure. Thank you, Councilmember Davis, and we will reach out to her and ensure that she has the opportunity to give input. And hopefully she'll be able to join us at our next meeting. But even prior to that, I will give her a call and have a conversation with her and report back to the council. Thank you so much.
 Seeing that there's no one waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor, this meeting is adjourned. Thank you so much and pretty soon we'll be meeting in person. Have a great evening, stay healthy, and stay safe. Thank you so much. Thank you President. Thank you. Good night everyone.