Good evening. I'm called the March 28th 2022 meeting. I'm a councilor called to order. I'd like to make some comments regarding the length and other expectations. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you. Good evening members of the audience. For audio quality your mics will everyone's mics in the virtual audience will be muted so that you can hear both yourselves and the council as well. If you would like to speak during the agenda item
 Whether you speak in support or in opposition, please say so in the chat. Put your name and your address in the chat and directions to do so are also located in the chat. For privilege of the floor, we ask that you do the same thing.
 during the privilege of the floor, put your name in the chat along with your address and the president will call on you. For the privilege of the floor, you have three minutes. For public input on agenda items, you have five minutes. Thank you. Thank you so much. I would first like to announce that if you are here for bill number 12-22 for the property located, let me get the right address,
 the alley vacation for the far northwest neighborhood association that has been tabled until april the 11th for the next council meeting two weeks from now and also if you are here for make sure i'm getting the right information bill number 2217 which the housing uh resolution that has been tabled until april 25th 2022
 so any of those bills if you are here for that or in the virtual audience those two bills have been tabled thank you point of order yes does there have to be a motion to take the bill in an order i was announcing it and then i'm going down the line when i'm announcing in the case someone is here in the audience or in the virtual audience that they don't have to stay for the meeting thank you for the clarification thank you that is still on the agenda yes sir
 Thank you so much for that. Now I will go into the original agenda. Disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in the individual without notice, forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. At this time, we will have our invocation by Minister Ken Hardy. Let us pray. Heavenly God, our Father, we thank you, Lord, for this meeting. We thank you, Lord, for these leaders.
 We thank you, Lord, for our citizens. We thank you, Lord, for our leaders, that they will look to you when the winds get too high and that they may not lean on their own understanding. We pray for your gifts of patience and understanding. And also we pray for your spirit of peace in Christ. And we pray. Amen. Thank you so much. At this time, may we stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 to the republic for the rights of all nations under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Council Member Davis. Good return. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. And Council Member Tomas Morgan is excused. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Haight present. Thank you. There are no reports today on subcommittee on the minutes. Yes.
 And for special resolution commemorating March 2022, a Women's History Month sponsor, Councilman Davis. Yes, please read it. Thank you so much. A special resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana commemorating March 2022 as Women's History Month. Thank you.
 The sponsors, please. Appreciate it. A special resolution was put together because we do have National Women's History Month and I didn't want to miss it. I wanted to the last time, but we couldn't get it done. But I think it is necessary to recognize all the women that are in our society that have made positive contributions to our society.
 Even though those that I serve with here on this Common Council, I have a wife at home, I have a mother and have cousins and aunts. So it's always a good thing to recognize those who are obviously out there to help and support us. Without a woman, we can't progress as a society. So I just think that this is a thing, a necessary thing. And I'm going to begin starting reading, whereas the first International Women's Day
 was a global celebration of the economic, political, and social achievements of women was celebrated on March 8th, 1911. And whereas
 The United Nations has sponsored International Women's Day since 1975 when it adopted a resolution to recognize the fact that securing peace and social progress and full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms require the active participation, equality, and development of women, and to acknowledge the contributions of women to the strengthening of international peace and security. And whereas...
 President Jenny Carter issued the first presidential proclamation declaring March 8th as National Women's History Week in 1980, and whereas United States Congress expanded the week of the entire month of March in 1987.
 And whereas the United States and several other countries around the world recently celebrated International Women's Day on March 8th, and whereas the theme of 2022 is designated by the National Women's History Alliance is women providing healing, promoting hope,
 which is both a tribute to the ceaseless work of caregivers and frontline workers during this ongoing pandemic, and also a recognition of the thousands of ways that women of all cultures have provided both healing and hope throughout history. And whereas current events establish more than ever the need for women to contribute to providing healing and promote hope,
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows.
 Section 1, the Common Council of the City of South Beneventiana recognizes and appreciates the countless contributions women make in all areas of life, not only during the month of March, but also during each and every day. Section 2, the Common Council also recognizes and appreciates the five women members of this Council for their contributions to the well-being and progress of this city.
 Section 3, this resolution shall become effective upon the date of passage dated this 28th day of March 2022. Thank you. May I have you both state your name and address for the record? Lori Hammond, 2658 Tomahawk Trail, South Bend. Thank you.
 Henry Davis Jr. 5117 Idlewood Drive, South Indiana 46619. Thank you. Are there any comments from the council? Seeing none, I would ask for a vote by the council by acclamation. Are all those in favor of resolution, the special resolution commemorating the March 2022 as Women History Month? All in favor, aye. Aye. Any opposition?
 Motion carries. Thank you so much. There are no reports from the city offices. I would now entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole. So moved. Second. There's a motion on the floor and it's been seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? You didn't have public comment for the resolution, but you don't have to, I guess. You burned past it.
 I don't have to I think I closed it I'm sorry no I was fine but I was just like pointing out that's what happened you have public here so thank you so much you're welcome it has been motioned and seconded and I don't remember if we all voted I believe we did you voted by acclamation yes thank you so much the motion is carried
 The Committee of the Whole is in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. We're going to have a reading of Bill 1022. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 1022 a second reading? Yes.
 1022, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property, a 12-foot wide public alley running from Dewey Avenue on the east to Howard Street on the west for a distance of 205 feet plus or minus, South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. That was at the Public Works and Property Vacations Committee, and it got a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? And I ask that you state your name and your address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us. Thank you. Mike Danch from Danch, Harner & Associates, 1643 Commerce Drive here in South Bend, representing the petitioner.
 And as we had mentioned in the committee meeting, what we're asking to do is to vacate a 12-foot wide public alley that runs from Dewey Avenue on the east down to Howard Street on the west. This area is bounded by South Bend Avenue on the north. What we're asking to do is to vacate this alley so that we potentially can have a mixed-use development on the property. Presently, this alley bisects several parcels of ground.
 and the owners would like to combine everything together, which necessitates having this alley vacated. As we had mentioned in the committee meeting, what would also happen here is that after council would hopefully approve this alley vacation, we would go ahead and prepare
 a lot adjustment to create one larger legal lot of record for the development. And as had been mentioned by Angela Smith from Community Investment, depending on the type of development we'll go in there, we potentially would be back before council to ask for rezoning for the type of use that would go on this property. And if you have any questions for me, I'd be glad to answer them. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner at this time? Then we'll go to the public hearing portion.
 Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 1022? There is no one from the public that has expressed interest to speak in favor of Bill 1022. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 1022? Neither is there one any present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 1022. Point of order. I see some people in the audience raising their hands.
 Okay. Are you 22? Come over to the microphone, the microphone and give your name and address. And are you for or against? My name is Gloria Murphy. And there's a church that the only access to the church. Gloria, Gloria, we're so glad to have you, but we need your address. Oh, well, 211 South Michigan Street. The church address.
 There's a church that sits on Howard Street, and the only access to the church parking lot is from the alley. So we need clarification as to is that going to be eliminated? Mr. Danch, or can somebody from the clerk's office put the map up? I believe you'll see this is on the east side of 23, and the church is on the west side of 23. Is that correct? Yes. Yes.
 So I believe this won't affect the church at all, but... No, this shouldn't have any effect on the church. We can put a map up so that she can see where the alley that's being closed. There you go. All right, sir. I'm missing...
 The church on Howard Street? The church is on Howard Street. The alley is right, the alley runs alongside of the church, which is on Dewey. The alley is Dewey's alley, I guess. Commissioner, if you can give us some clarity. Yeah, the church, I'm not aware the church was using this particular alley. This alley is on the west side of Dewey.
 And it runs down toward Howard Street. There's not anybody using this particular alley to get to a parking lot that I'm aware of. This alley is totally bounded by South Bend Avenue on the north, Dewey on the east, and Howard Street on the south. This does not have a parking lot on it. The church has a parking lot there, and that is the only access to the church parking lot.
 The church would have to be able to get to the parking lot from Dewey Avenue. What's the church? That's it right there. What's the name? What's the name of the church? The Light of the World Church. Is it possible for you to point to where you're saying the church is? Oh. Be careful on the steps, but you can come up to, we're trying to see where you're. I'm going to put a bigger map up. Yeah. This is not the main Howard.
 Can you minimize him. DIRECTOR MACK- Yeah. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Oh sorry. DIRECTOR MACK- Okay. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN. DIRECTOR RANKIN.
 I'm pretty sure this is what we're. Okay. I can't find it. Okay, wait. What did they call it? Okay. Alley. This is due. Okay, here. The church is right here. Oh, it doesn't. Yeah. Wouldn't you have that alley? That's a different alley? Yeah. They do one on the church. Yeah, the alley is up there, and the one they're doing is up there. Yeah, the black and.
 Thank you for coming. All right. No one in opposition, no one in favor. The public portion of this bill is now closed. Council members, would you like to make a statement regarding Bill 1022? If not, I will entertain a motion regarding Bill 10-22.
 I'll make a motion to send Bill 1022 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Okay. The motion has been second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Yes. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davids. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 10-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Thank you. We won't hear 12-22. It's been sent to
 for next for the next council meeting correct that was the i believe we still need a motion okay so i would like to motion that we table bill 12-22 until april 11th second
 It is the motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, please give the roll. Yes. Council Member Wex. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Right. Bill 12-22 will be tabled.
 the next council meeting now i need a motion to accept substitute bill 13-22 so moved second all right okay roll call please yes council member white aye council council member hammond aye vice president naskowski aye council member davis
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. So we will now hear Substitute Bill 13-22. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name, your address, and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Yes. Corey Lance. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Clerk Jones, will you please read Substitute Bill 13-22? Yes. Yes.
 A public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, Alley Vacation, Street Alley near 1101 King Street. All right. Is there a petition present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Yes, Corey Lance, 615 Cushing Street, South Bend. We purchased the property at 1101 King Street in June of 2021. And we, by recommendation of Public Works, we are trying to vacate the alley south of McCartney and north of King Street and east of Kessler Boulevard. I'm so sorry. All right. We need to ask for the committee report. I'm sorry.
 This was in Public Works and Property Vacation, and it received a favorable recommendation to the full council. Oh, I'm sorry, to the Committee of the Whole with the updated language of the substitute bill. Okay. All right. Petitioner, you can now give us your key points.
 Yes, the alley is not being utilized at all by anyone. There's actually on the west side of the alley, there's brush and overgrown stuff there. So we are vacating it. We would like to, we own two properties north of our property at 1101 King Street, lots 56 and 55. And by vacating the alley, we'll be able to join our properties together and then use that for parking.
 parking space and actually drainage for our parking area. All right. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? I have a woman, Lori Hammond. Thank you. So you're stating that the alley currently is not usable because of overgrowth?
 Correct. And no one utilizes it because there's no garage doors or houses on those properties that would need to utilize the alley. Thank you. Anyone else? Any other council members? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 13-22? There is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill.
 We'll get a step up to the podium, sir. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 13-22? You can now come to the podium and state your name and address. It's Frank Mercado. I'm at 709 Juniper Place, South Bend. So the development of this recreational center, is that right? Is that going to increase property taxes in that neighborhood? I don't know.
 no that's a it's something that we would we would have an answer to well that's a concern i have a rental property on that area i'm sorry sir what's your question again is the development of that recreational center going to increase probably absolutely and the whole the whole area will get a an increase well that's not very sitting very well with me probably anybody else that lives on that
 Well, no, but that's how development happens. So as new things, new infrastructure is placed in there, new buildings, whatever that is, the area gets a new assessment and it's usually an increase of taxes. Doesn't mean exactly that that happens at a very high level, but my bet will be that you will receive some sort of increase. And you can always appeal those increases as well. There's also a concern about possible tax.
 trouble that might come from the youth that are going to be using that facility, fighting, maybe potential trafficking of substances because of, well, you know how kids are. They're going to gather together and they're going to try and use that as like a hub to meet other people. There's already a
 problem in that area with gunshots at night and drug dealing and whatever. And I think this is just going to might even add more blame to that already problem that's there by bringing more younger kids in there and creating different problems to add to the ones that are already there. They're going to be gathering around outside the building around there
 And it's just going to be it's just going to be a bad thing. OK, well, providing that, you know, that, you know, nobody's going to be watching it or anything like that. Besides that, you know, there's the Brown Academy that's being used for after school programs. And, you know, now the same situation is going on.
 with uh that over at the uh martin luther king center when there was a shooting over there because they were selling uh drugs or in that area in the corner meeting there okay well thank you sir for your comments and i'm gonna allow the petitioner to be able to address it
 Yeah, we appreciate your input on that. We want to make sure our neighbors are on board with what we're doing. But at the same time, you mentioned it being a hub. It's going to be a hub for youth and families in a way that's going to mitigate a lot of the things that you're concerned about, the violence, the drugs, all of those things. In fact, we've been on Portage Avenue now for four years and been in the neighborhood, one Calipark neighborhood for 13. And we've seen a lot of these issues.
 go down because of the impact that we've had with developing real relationships and being invested in the lives of students and families. So I understand your concerns, but
 The violence, the drugs, those things that you're concerned about are only going to go down. And it's been proven the last 13 years. The students and the families just need people to be in a relationship and not fear them. And you mentioned it being a hub for violence. It's actually going to be a hub for belonging, safety and hope. So.
 while it might increase some property taxes by ten dollars a house it's going to provide a ton of value and impact for this community for decades to come so um i also don't understand how that's necessarily connected to vacating the alley um the development of the property is still moving forward whether we vacate the alley or not uh vacating the outage just allows us to do a few of the things that that are needed to maximize the property well my conservative is what's
 going to happen after afterwards the development of that record center what what I would suggest is is that um is that you have a meeting with them and and get to see their plans and and so that you'll be on board what they're what they're doing okay
 But then there's the semi-traffic that goes down that street as well. They still use that King Street to bring heavy trucks in and out of a steel warehouse. What they're vacating is an alley. They're not vacating in the street. No, I understand. But, you know, if you're going to have kids around there, you're going to have that big traffic in there.
 We've been in close communication with Steel Warehouse and the ownership and manager there, and they're totally on board with what we're doing. And so we talked about that exact thing, and they're excited that we're bringing this to the neighborhood. And like I said, we've been here for a while, and this is just in addition to the good things that have happened. I would love for you to stop by at our building at 1519 Portage to discuss further and show you our plans, like Councilman Lee said.
 Thank you, sir. The time allotted is up. Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments. Council members, would anybody like to make any statements concerning Bill 13-22? I just would like to say that I've watched Transformation Ministries from the beginning come into the neighborhood and the great work that they're doing with our inner city kids community.
 They're teaching them job skills. They're teaching them education. They're doing a really, really great service to the neighborhood. And so I would again encourage you to schedule appointment and go see their facility and what they've been doing. Nothing but good things, a lot of hope for individuals that are, for our young people, and we gotta find positive things for them to do. So I support this effort.
 I will now entertain a motion regarding bill 13-22. I'll make a motion to send substitute bill 13-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Yes. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Right. Substitute Bill 13-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Miscotsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Motion carries. Thank you. The full council is back in session. This portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole.
 Clerk Jones would you give bill 1022 a third reading. DIRECTOR MACKAY. Yes.
 1022, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, a 12-foot-wide public alley running from Dewey Avenue on the east to Howard Street on the west for a distance of 205 feet plus or minus. South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1022? Yes. Okay.
 Bill 10-22 comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 10-22. Motion for passage? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Melton, will you please call the roll? Yes.
 Vice President Neskotsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 1022 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, would you please give Substitute Bill 1322 a third, will you? Yes.
 1322, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property alley vacation street alley near 1101 King Street. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1325? Yes. Substitute Bill 13-22 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute Bill 1322 for passage. Second. Dr. Jones, would you call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 1322 has been adopted. Resolutions. Resolutions.
 This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name, address, and comments on the bill. If you have any questions,
 There will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes, with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Resolution 2216. Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 22-16? 2216, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing and approving the City of South Bend...
 Indiana's opt back into the state of Indiana structured settlement of opioid litigation under Indiana code 4-16-15. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, Bill 2216 was heard in front of Health and Public Safety Committee earlier today and it was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. We have a presenter. Will you state your name and address for the record?
 Yes, thank you. My name is Aladine DeRose, City Attorney with offices on the 12th floor of this building. Thank you, members of the Council. It's a pleasure to be here to introduce this bill this evening. It is a request that you authorize and approve the opt-back into the state structured settlement for the opioid litigation.
 Opioid litigation was the result of an opioid epidemic across the country affecting South Bend and all other parts of the state and country. It arose in the 1990s when certain drug manufacturers began manufacturing opioid pain relief medication, synthetic opioid medications, and marketed them heavily without...
 notifying the public or physicians that they were addictive. In fact, they were highly addictive. And in the 2010 to 2017 era, it resulted in deaths, overdoses, fetal or newborn dependency, and a host of other problems that our city as well as cities throughout the country have dealt with.
 Last year around this time, we came before you to request that we opt out of the state's plan because at that time, the state, which was organizing settlements on behalf of its cities, had a very inequitable, in our opinion, plan that provided for 15% to cities and towns and counties and the balance to the state itself for its purposes.
 In the time between our last appearance here for this purpose and today, legislation occurred in the General Assembly that has been much more equitable and which we think is fair and reasonable. And the new legislation allows the cities and counties to participate and share.
 in structured opioid settlements, 50-50 between the state and the local governments. The distribution has been changed. It was based on population. That is the distribution of monies themselves. It was based originally on population or per capita. It is now based on actual harm to a community with three factors, each being equal and
 the amount of opioid distributed within a community, the number of opioid deaths that have occurred, and the number of persons who suffer opioid use disorder. The city of South Bend believes that this proposal is fair. The 50-50 participation rate.
 Also requires that a certain ratio be applied to different purposes. So 15, I'm sorry, 30% of what the city would receive is unrestricted. 70% must go to programs for the treatment, prevention, and care of opioid residuals within the city.
 That same formula is used by the state for its share, so it will also receive 30% unrestricted and 70% for state programs also devoted to care and treatment and prevention of opioid disorders.
 So with that, we're asking that you allow us to opt back in. This will be the last thing we can do. Once we're in, we have to stay in, but we believe that distributions through this formula and through this state settlement is in the best interest of the city. If you have questions, I'm happy to answer them. Thank you so much. At this time, I would open it up for council. Do you have any questions?
 House of Woman, Lori Hammond. Thank you, Aladin. Do you can you give us a number of those in South Bend that have been impacted? We we I do not have that data at this time. The the data has been collected nationally and there's a national determination of impact for every community.
 We have ourselves collected data as to the harms that we've experienced through the costs of caring for those who are affected, those who are overdosing or who have died. And that's through the police and fire departments because they are the ones who see these problems. We do have data. We have not been able to organize it in a fashion that we would be comfortable sharing it at this time, but we have raw data.
 Thank you. Any other questions? Oh, Councilman Warner. Thank you. Aladine, can you remind me? I believe last fall when we were looking at this the first time, the state was at 15%.
 Yes, the state was. Yes, it was gone up from 15 to 50. Yes, 15 to 50. So it's a significant adjustment. And then my second question is, I seem to remember from earlier that this would be the payments would be over 18 years or more. Yeah, yes, there are. Well, there are two settlements currently that have been approved and are ready for distribution.
 One settlement, the larger settlement, is between distributors McKesson and others, and that is an 18-year distribution. It's the larger number.
 The smaller distribution is called the J&J distribution, Johnson & Johnson, and it's affiliates, and that's distributable over 11 years. Outstanding yet, and we don't know what the numbers will be, but that's the Purdue Pharma and the Shackler family distribution.
 bankruptcy that is, I think, has been approved by the bankruptcy court, but there have been, there's a time in which others, some persons can object, and I think the objection was mostly to whether the bankruptcy court could allow, could be the final disposition of Shackler family liability. Thank you. We don't know when that will happen. Councilman Lee. Well,
 But without any exact number, you said that South Bend stands to receive $2.6 million and $655,000? Correct. Could you talk about that a little bit? Yes, it's actually closer to the total. The net is about $2.6 million.
 The total gross is about 2.8 from the McKesson Distributors Liability Fund, and the 655 is from Johnson & Johnson. But the payout after attorney fees is somewhat less, so the net is about 598 for the J&J and about 2.5 for the McKesson Distributors.
 And 30% of that is unrestricted and 70% of it has to go towards programs. Correct. The payout each year under the 18-year distribution is going to be a small one. So we won't have a bulk fund to do large programs. They will need to be probably, we'll see how we need to structure them. But they'll probably be small things or the funding of, of,
 drugs that will assist those who are dependent. Thank you.
 Mr. Davis. Sure, thank you. So the monies that we're talking about, I'll be coming over an extended period of time, will obviously go to outside organizations that do programming that helps out with folks who have been impacted by the opioid crisis and also education, probably for kids, so that they don't, you know, getting caught in that web. Would you know if any of the other dollars go to like city-driven organizations? I mean, you have,
 Crime prevention could be one. I'm just asking. And I think we would look at that with the council's input at budgeting time because these funds will be available for budget purposes for their intended purpose. As I said, 30% for whatever use is appropriate as the council determines.
 with the administration and 70% that must be designated for prevention care. So that would be like a South Bend Police Department, that could be like a SAFE, that could be like a GVI. Exactly. Yeah, okay, thank you. Yes, anyone else? Thank you. At this time, I would open it up to the public for public comments. Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the
 i do not see anyone in the virtual audience who is expressing the interest for a public comment on this resolution anyone in the audience wishing to speak in favor or against resolution 22-16 thank you at this time the public portion is now closed um i will turn to the council do you have any other questions comments
 there are no comments sure i'm sorry i i asked that question specifically for the reason of we've talked about members on this council not having a not should not have the ability to vote on their own budget because it is against state law i asked a question about crime prevention and i'm saying that those who are a part of that because they will receive their money that's exactly what this is getting ready to happen that they recuse themselves from voting
 I know it's probably going through, but it'd probably be good practice that we do not vote on our own salaries or our own budgets from additional dollars coming in from the state. Councilman Wax. Give me a little more clarity. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It was two people talking at the same time. I didn't hear it either. That's why I asked what you said. I'm going to step back for a minute. Okay. Councilman Lee. I'm trying to figure out where, where that, where that comment came from or where,
 What do you mean by that? What I mean by that is that you were for SAVE, which is through a program that the city helps fund and hopes that, you know, you guys do the best work that you can to prevent crime. I'm saying that this money is going to end up in your guys' bank account. And I'm saying that because of what we do here, it will probably be good practice that you recuse yourself from the vote because you are going to benefit from your vote today.
 Mr. Davis, I work with group violence intervention. You should listen to me. You really should listen to me. Point of order. You have to let the man speak, Mr. Davis. You can't interrupt him. I work with group violence intervention. We deal with gang and gun activity. Stay, man. You can go ahead and vote for it. I'm just trying to help you out. Mr. Davis, he's speaking. This is not your floor. This is not your meeting. It's the chair's meeting.
 No, you're out of order. No, you're out of order because what you're saying doesn't make any sense, brother. Let me interject. Right now, the money is not received, the money is not allocated, and the council has authority to have input whatever administration proposes to us, which for us to guesstimate or –
 I think we can deal with that at that time. Your comment is definitely well taken and noted in the minutes, but I think it's a little premature for us to argue about something that we don't even have the funding for and don't know when that's coming down. So if I may just say that to everyone. Is there any other comments? Mr. Wax.
 thank you i'm just going to thank aladdin and the rest of city legal for continuing to make sure i know we made a decision decision to opt out earlier and they stayed on top of it to keep up on what the best opportunities for the city is so i appreciate those efforts and forward to doing good things with this money when we get it whatever those things may be thank you thank you any other comments
 thank you at this time um i would entertain a motion for a resolution 22-16 i move for the adoption of resolution 22-16 second clerk jones council member lee aye
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 22-16 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 14-22 a first reading? Yes. 14-22. A point of order, I'm sorry. We need to...
 22 17. no it was already uh voted on in table and I think it was wasn't which one oh thank you thank you there is a second one I'm sorry it's already on my notes absolutely thank you so much clerk jones would you read resolution 22-17 yeah I'm sorry clarification um
 Robert Roosevelt says you have to open back up that session for resolutions before you go back into reading the resolutions to go back into voting resolutions. You just can't call it back because there was a mistake made. So you're still stuck at first reason what I'm saying. You have to recall this section back. Parliamentary. Can you give me the proper language? Yes.
 Since there is no motion required to move on to first readings, I believe that you can simply go back to the resolution and read it. If there had been a motion, required motion, then it would have to be withdrawn. Thank you so much. Clark Jones, could you read resolution 22-17, please?
 2217, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, calling for the cooperation of the City of South Bend, South Bend Housing Authority and developers to create fund and implement an initiative to remove barriers to affordable housing in South Bend. Thank you. I move that a bill 2217 is tabled to the 25th of April. Second.
 2022. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. No. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 14-22 a first reading?
 First, 1422, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the South Bend Municipal Code at Chapter 2, Article 9, Section 2-129 to change the residency restriction of commission members. Thank you. Motion is in Bill 1422 to Community Relations Committee and public hearing and third reading for April 11, 2022. So moved.
 Second. It has been moved and seconded for Bill 14-22. May I have a vote by acclamation? We're doing by acclamation. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion's carried. Unfinished business. Is there any unfinished business from the council at this time? Yes, there is. And I wanted to bear with me for a moment. We, I think it was, the date is...
 the date was uh march 21st 2022 i sent them a message of a letter to president mcbride and three of the members from the council for um clarification and also for help i asked for support because i have been getting stories and conversations about how i am a detriment to my district and i am not necessarily helping my district i am
 not signing up for lights i'm not signing up for you know infrastructure updates things that i think that are completely offbeat and it's coming from members of the council i'm not going to name any names right now because i think that that's insufficient but what i will say is that um south i mean south business the second district of the city the district that i represent we have
 A list of probably like seven different projects that's going on. Marlowe the King Jr. Center, neighborhood plans for the Kennedy Park Neighborhood Association, Monroe Park Neighborhood Association, and the Northwest, near Northwest side Neighborhood Association. You have demolition projects that need to happen in order for the district itself to grow, which is the Drury's building.
 the building that's on Sample Street that has decayed because of the fire last year and years and years of not being used. You have several of these manufacturing plants that's off of Circle Avenue across the street from Frankie's Barbecue. You have the factory that's on Cherry Street, and you have Beck's Lake, which we just got back and we figured out that there was contamination. You have the South Bend Housing Authority,
 you have this still dealing with and have been confronted with a thousand houses a thousand days with the lights the lots excuse me and the overgrown fields and weeds that we have to take care of because of the houses being knocked down you have the container home projects that are going to happen on pagan street there has been two rounds of federal funding that has gone to administration
 There has not been any affordable housing plans put together. You have a third coming in this summer around the June-July mark, which is going to be more millions of dollars for us to help plan and reduce or to bring up the area as it relates to housing. None of these things have been put on paper. I've asked for help from four members of this council. I get a phone call from one.
 But the rest I have not. And when I'm the point I'm going to make and I'm pointing that I'm trying to make is that if we're not here to help each other, then we shouldn't be here trying to hurt the next person. Those things are real things. That contamination thing over there in LaSalle Park is real. Many of you grew up in that area. So did I. I'm sure that we have been recipients of lead.
 And also arsenic in our system during the course of the time that we lived over there. I am sure that that's been it. And there needs to be a focus on what is happening with people of lower economic scale and people of color in this city, because every place that I just named off of this list, that's where we sit, that's where we live, and that's in our environment. So, again, I ask for help.
 I'm asking for more help. I just don't understand why the help hasn't come or why I haven't gotten more phone calls or emails from members of the council that I sent this email to.
 Well, if I can speak for myself, but why I didn't respond because the same access that I have and the same issues that I have in the third district, I'm the third district representative and the president, which just runs the meetings and have one of nine votes. But that some of the same issues regarding whether it's housing, poverty, poverty.
 regarding the census information that we receive, we have the same type of disparities. So my job in the third district is to address the needs of the third district. And one of the second point I would make is the budget of 2022 the items that you emailed most of those things that you named are in the budget that most of us passed.
 from the Council and which in fact you were one who did not vote for uh things and that was in the 2022 budget but those things that are alighting the demos and all that stuff is in this year's budget that we passed overall
 So that's just my comment. I don't know who else was, I don't remember who else the email was referred to, but I just speak to myself. It went to you as well as three at-large members. That's what it went to. Rachel's not here, so you can't talk for her. So I talk to Lori on a regular basis, so I understand where she's at. Thank you. But what I will say is that regardless of my vote,
 If you have the same issues in your area as I have in my area, the collaboration should be a lot stronger than you shutting me off or saying that that's your problem and this is my problem. It's a citywide issue because when you vote for the budget, the budget is not for per district. It's for the city across the board. I agree. And it's just if it's reciprocated both ways, we definitely can work together. Well, you haven't asked me for any help.
 That's because I represent the district that I serve, and if it's something that we vote on together that we need, I've also always been an advocate of supporting, whether it's in my district or not. I was a firm believer in supporting the housing authority. I was a firm believer for the juries and things of that nature. And I still need that help. I support it. That building is still up there. And I'll yield my time. And that building still has the specimens that's leaking into the sewer system.
 It's the same conversation as well as when you did become the president of South Bend Combat Council, you took on a role of leadership to help facilitate the necessary conversations and also policy matters that impact the city as it relates to each district or just
 THE ENTIRE CEE AS A WHOLE. THE ENTIRE CEE AS A WHOLE. THE ENTIRE CEE AS A WHOLE. THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANK YOU SO MUCH. SO YOU DON'T GET TO PICK SO YOU DON'T GET TO PICK SO YOU DON'T GET TO PICK AND CHOOSE HOW YOU PARTICIPATE AND CHOOSE HOW YOU PARTICIPATE AND CHOOSE HOW YOU PARTICIPATE AND HELPING OUT. AND HELPING OUT. AND HELPING OUT. I CAN WHEN I REPRESENT I CAN WHEN I REPRESENT I CAN WHEN I REPRESENT A DISTRICT. A DISTRICT. A DISTRICT. I'M NOT AN AT-LARGE I'M NOT AN AT-L
 give the standing committees in which of what I've done. Other than that, I support by coming to all the meetings and functions. But like I said, if you look at the budget and the things that you voted in, it does matter if you are asking for the same help in which you voted against, that's difficult to assist with.
 No, it's not difficult to assist because the money that I asked for it in your own district, but I know it didn't vote for it against the whole entire city budget. That's what you're missing in that. You keep saying it's not based. It's public. Our budget is not based. Our district is not our district based. Our budget isn't. Our budget is citywide. And if you have we can have those same issues.
 No, we're going to have it now. No, we're not. Why can't we? No, we're not. Because you and I can have this conversation. You don't talk to me. You just said it. You don't talk to me. I didn't say I didn't talk to you. Yes, you did. I just asked you for help, and you just said that you are unwilling to help. I said the reason why it did not, because if there's a light out,
 or something happening in the second district, I go to those meetings, I reach out, and I do what I am tasked to do in the third district. I'm not an at-large council member, but I also have supported of everything that you've asked by approving the budget per my vote. Is there any other comments or unfinished business at this time? I say we move on to new business. Unless there's other unfinished business that someone else has? I would just like to...
 say that I do think it's important that we revisit some of the arpa funds that as a council we set aside we were not in full agreement as to some of the proposals that came from the administration around budget time and we do want to make sure that we get those funds appropriately
 assigned um thank you and I believe that we do have an uh a copy of the APRA funds that we approved of doing that budget so it will show what the balance remaining is in it so I'll make sure everyone get a copy of that thank you I would I would just second that I think uh sometimes between appropriations and when things come into play
 So instead of waiting until later on for inter budget transfers, maybe it would make sense to get an update to see if there is any changes from the budget proposal. And I think my memory serves me right. The last update that I had asked for was that most of the monies we appropriated for APRA, but it was not passed. Well, it's an appropriation for housing, demolition, and green...
 and things of that nature is all outlined, but being that we did not pass the salaries, it held up from the administrations. But we do have the layout still of what we appropriated. So we'll make sure that that's sent out to everybody again. Yeah, President McBride, I have been in dialogue with Mr. Parker. Okay. So I'm in the beginning that date set up. Thank you. I didn't hear what you said.
 Should be getting a personal finance date set up for that. Okay. Thank you so much. Is there any new business? At this time, we will open it up for privilege of the floor. We have someone virtually, I believe, Lee Davis.
 Mr. Davis, if you would unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please. Let me make the statement, please, before. No, you're fine. Disrespectful, rude or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any one person, may result in an individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted times. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address.
 Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the Council has heard previously tonight on the agenda.
 the council president may assign a topic raised by an individual doing the privileges of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting clerk jones okay we have um two speakers the first is uh lee davis mr davis if you would unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record please
 Hi, I'm Lee Davis from South Bend. I've been to the Whole Woman's Health Clinic on Lincoln Way. Regardless of how we feel about abortion, the protesters there are very noisy, disturbing the peace, and they are rude. Standing with their signs, the protesters obstruct the traffic line of sight, getting in and out of the clinic.
 They had a tent there Saturday that got blown off the grass into the street, and inside the tent were two kids. This was very unsafe. I know that they're standing on public property, but this was dangerous for everyone involved, even people driving by on Lincoln Way. I'm concerned for the safety of the patients and the protesters.
 Our police need to enforce the obstruction and noise laws and cool things off out there so that something worse doesn't happen. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next, we have John. John, if you would unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please.
 Sorry, but I'm not sure why it says John, but this is Jordan 424 South Michigan Street, unit 660, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. I just wanted to...
 share some thoughts. I'm really happy to see that Rebuilding Together is receiving CDBG funds to do home repair work out in the far west side areas. I know specifically there's going to be a number of houses addressed in the lakeside, but I think it's also important to note that in the last budget cycle, there were a number of people in
 A number of organizations in District 2 that actually pressed Henry to vote against the budget because there was a lack of clarity around where the funding and the dollars that were proposed were actually going to go. So we have reached out, had call for meetings with council members, sent in comments, concerns.
 asking specifically where these dollars will go. For example, we wanted to know if there would be a housing plan, if housing dollars for a plan would actually come to the lakeside, just as other neighborhoods have received funding last year for a neighborhood plan. I'm sorry, I meant a neighborhood plan. So I know there were at least five or six organizations, neighborhood groups,
 just activist organizations that had met with Henry and put pressure on him to ensure that the mayor was clear about where those dollars would go and clear with the council. And there was a lack of clarity there. And so I feel like that's kind of where a lot of this confusion is, is because it's not clear to the public or to those of us who've been pressing for,
 for dollars to specifically come to our areas, it's not clear to us what exactly is coming. So if there's a way that folks can try to collaborate, you know, to ensure that folks who've been waiting a long time actually get the support that they want, I think we can move in a better fashion and get things done. Thank you so much, Mr. Geiger. Anyone else, Clark Jones? Yes, we have Kat Redding. Ms. Redding, if you would unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please. Yes.
 Hi, Catherine Redding, and that is 418 Lamont Terrace, South Bend, Indiana. It seems to me that what Henry is asking for is he's asking for support. I know that many other districts and census tracts also have lead contaminants. Actually, there's nine other census tracts that has also been identified with lead.
 lead poisoning. And I don't think it's too much to ask that as city elected officials, we come together and figure out a reasonable way for to spearhead the 80% of the housing stock that contains lead contaminants. This to me, it's essentially injustice to the
 black and brown community. So if we can figure out a way forward together, I think absolutely what Henry's saying is very relevant to our conditions in this community. And if we can't find a way forward, we're just spinning the wheel. And, you know, at that point, I mean, I just have to say it's arbitrary to think that, you know, you know, just because we're not
 Select officials, not essentially, you know, what is it, you know, based on their district, you know, if they're not at large, that's what I was looking for. This is going to take all of us to come together and figure out a reasonable way for. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Redding, for your comments. Clark Jones, anyone else? No, that exhausts our list.
 Unless we have someone's presence. Yeah. Please state your name and address when you get to the microphone. Good evening, Council. My name is Marva Williams, 946 East Soren Street in South Bend. I want to start off by saying that I am very nervous, and I hope I make it through this, but I've been having a problem with the LID program, and it's taken me—it's going on four years now—
 that they have just started on my home. And they're about finished with it. During the time before they even started on my home, excuse me, my home and the basements full of black mold, ceilings falling down in my bedroom. I've just been having so many problems with that house. Like I said, I've been in since 68 and trying to reach out here and there for help.
 During this time, someone told me to go to a heritage foundation, and I went to them, and I had told Mr. Markle, my, what my problem was, and he told me he thought they could help me with it. But I was speaking about the mold and the fountain in my...
 bedroom, ceiling falling down, and then in the bathroom. He asked me at that time, how was my roof? And I told him I thought it was okay, but there's some leaking in the house. He asked me about my hot water heater, and I told him I thought it was okay. So he told me that they would try to help me out. So he sent over Mr., I believe his name was Sadafi,
 and he was speaking to me and tell me just what they could do for me so I told him okay so they came to the house check things out and then at that time I was thinking they were going to address these problems that I was having but they were basically talking about putting me on a new roof for the leakage in my house and that we would go from there well as the day I still
 They didn't do everything that they said that they would do. And it was, I thought that it would have been a grant. But I come to find out when Mr. Sadafi was talking to me, it was for $10,000 and I had to pay $5,000 back. And like I said, my back was up against the wall then. And I just went ahead and said I would. And I signed agreement for him and they put a lien on my house.
 telling me that I could stay in my home for as long as I'm thinking, but when I'm gone, that that debt would have to be paid back. And I told them, okay, I just did not have the money and I just didn't know what to do because I'd been waiting on this organization for over three years. And I have family there, great-grandkids as well as grandkids, and I just couldn't take it any longer. So Mr. Mario came along
 Marco came up came up house and we sent him the porch and we talked about the situation and everything and I usually read over everything but then like I said my back was up against the wall and something had to be taken care of so I had signed it then but ever since this has been two years ago and ever since then I've regretted signing it because that is my only legacy for my family as well as myself and I've been.
 worried to death about this ever since this has happened and regretted that I ever signed it. And I just don't have the $5,000 to pay it back. But I know, like I said, I signed that paper and that was my fault. But at the time, like I said, my back was up against the wall and I'd been reaching out, reaching out, reaching out for help. So like I said, they finally came after almost
 that's all i have to say thank you very much thank you miss williams do you have copies of the miss williams pardon me do you have copies of the contract yes i do okay if you don't mind giving it to the clerk's office to make a copy please yes i will thank you so much for your time and thank you is there anyone else with that being uh said there's nothing no one else i call this meeting adjourned thank you
 Thank you.