default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so is listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers in at-person council meetings.
 Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome Pastor Thorntonson from First Seventh-day Adventist Church to please come. Welcome. I'd like to invite you to bow your heads. Lord Almighty, Ancient of Days, I come before you on behalf of Distinguished Body, South Bend Common Council. And I ask that you bless our council members with wisdom, with understanding, that they may lead our city, South Bend, faithfully.
 to a future of prosperity and a place where it is good to be. I pray also be with each one here present and those online, that you allow us to enjoy this week with good health, with happiness, and the coming weekend ahead of us, that our homes may be full of joy and peace. I trust that you will answer this request. I ask in the name of my friend, the one known as Jesus the Christ. Amen.
 thank you for toronto the role please council member dr davis president council member lee president council member warner president council member bolden simpson president council member white president council member thomas morgan president council member good rogers vice president noskowski president
 President McBride. Present. All nine present. Thank you. This time we have a report from the subcommittee on minutes for Toronto. I have two separate minutes for 2022 and then I'll read 2024 separately. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the September 12, 2022 and the September 26, 2022.
 minutes meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. This recommendation for approval is made recognizing that three current council members, Council Member Dr. Davis, Council Member Bolden Simpson and Council Member Gooden Rogers, our current council members that were not seated in 2022 or 2023 and as such will be abstaining from any formal approval of old minutes.
 Thank you. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of March 11, 2024, meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. Make a motion to approve the March 11, 2024 minutes. Second. Move in second. Clerk Corrado, the roll. I can do a vote. Acclamation. Acclamation. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 the motions carried now i make a motion to approve the september 12 2022 and september 26th 2022 minutes second it's been moving second all in favor all right any opposition the motions carry thank you thank you at this time i will entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole so moved the movement it's been moving second all in favor any opposition the motions carried
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading in public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and a public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Toronto, would you please? First, I'd like to make a motion to accept Substitute Bill 02-24. Second. There's been a motion and a second.
 Clerk, all in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carries. All right. Clerk Torado, would you please give Substitute Bill 02-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 711 Leland Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 All right, is there a committee report? Yes, Mr. Chair, there is a committee report. The zoning organization met today. We bring this to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you for your patience with this one. All right, I see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address for the record and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Thank you, good evening. Carrie Myers, zoning specialist with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 The petition is brought to you this evening by Casper Shutt Family Trust and the requesting to rezone the property at 711 Leland Avenue from U2 Urban Neighborhood 2 to UF Urban Neighborhood Flex, as well as a special exception for retail and service and restaurant use. The petitioners are proposing a non-residential ground floor use, excuse me, with residential dwelling above. Next slide, please.
 The site is adjacent to a small park that's owned by St. Paul Bethel Baptist Church, and they also own the adjacent block to the west. There's residential to the south, and across Leland Avenue is number 6 Restaurant. The site is also in close proximity to the Portage Avenue, and the unique street configuration makes it feel like it's part of the Portage Avenue frontage. Any exterior alterations would require approval by the Historic Preservation Commission.
 The petition is consistent with the Near Northwest Neighborhood Plan, which encourages amenities that serve the neighborhood, increase housing choices, and encourages a mix of uses.
 Rezoning the site to UF, along with the approval of the special exception, will allow for the continued use as a residential dwelling on the second floor with a small-scale retail and or restaurant on the first floor. The request for rezoning and a special exception come to the Council from the Plan Commission with a favorable recommendation, and the petitioner is here as well. All right. Petitioner. Any questions before we pass it on? Yeah.
 good evening angela smith with dance harner associates office is located at 1643 commerce drive the petitioner here is seeking to do a rezoning and special exception for this property it's a unique historic building uh they feel that there's a need and have uh needs expressed to them by community members
 for a small little breakfast, lunch, grab and go kind of place. They've had great success with number six, and they'd like to do this to kind of supplement that. So when Amanda's not busy working at number six, she's going to be across the street baking and cooking for the neighborhood to kind of come and join Amanda.
 They're really hoping that this will be a walk-up location. While this particular house does not have the history, this type of development is very natural to South Bend's history, where you might have a ground floor, small deli, there used to be grocery stores on the ground floor or a restaurant. That's what this is looking to kind of bring back to this area.
 The by maintaining the residential on the second floor, you could have a great situation where somebody could maybe work at the restaurant and live upstairs and still keep this as a residential character. The historic preservation protections really make sure that this maintains and looks like a house.
 which is exactly what the UF district was designed to do to have a house that could go back and forth between residential and non-residential uses. And there's a lot of protections in place within that district that keep it from being tobacco sales or a liquor store or anything too intense for the area, as well as some square footage regulations. So it's a really good fit for this property and we would respectfully request your approval. Be happy to answer any questions. All right. Council members, do you have any questions?
 No questions, just comment. Just again, thank you for meeting with the church. I thought that was excellent, and I'm glad that they have come together to work to make everything come together. It was a great opportunity to kind of bridge that neighborhood. Yes.
 And thank you for the visuals. I don't know if Pastor Washington has this, but I'll make sure other people see it. That always helps. Yeah, the brochure that I passed out this afternoon at committee was shared with the church when I met with them on that Saturday. I think I left a couple extra in case they had questions, but I think that will really they're they're very aspirational images, but I hope we can pull it together. All right. Anyone else?
 At this time now we'll go to the public portion. Clerk Torado, is there anyone from the public looking to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 02-24? I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 02-24 is now closed.
 I would just any other comments from council members. I just want to say that I'm very happy as a first district person. One of the things that we wanted was restaurants. We don't want to have to go all the way to Grape Road or far away to get breakfast or lunch. So I'm excited about this opportunity right in our neighborhood. All right.
 All right, I'll entertain a motion regarding bill substitute bill 02-24. Motion to send the bill forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. Clerk Toronto, there's been a motion and a second. Please call the roll. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye.
 Aye. President McBride? Aye. All nine. All right. Substitute Bill 02-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Torado, would you please give Bill 10-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Section 2-7C of Chapter 2, Article 1 of the South Bend Municipal Code, duties of the city clerk as clerk of the council to permit the city clerk to hire outside contractual services for the initial preparation of drafts of meeting minutes. All right. Is there a committee report? No.
 There is a committee report. The Rules Committee moves request that this be sent to the committee as a whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present?
 thank you chair uh yes this bill we've been through this a few times but this bill section 2-7c of the city code states that the city clerk shall prepare the minutes without outside assistance this bill is needed to allow the clerk to contract out to assistance for the minutes and that would be uh to
 and get the backlog caught up from the 2023 minutes. There's a backlog of council minutes and even greater backlog of committee meeting minutes that need to be completed. Clerk Tirado, anything to add to that? I just wanted to just briefly send an update regarding the breakdown of the 2022-2023 minutes. This audit was completed in January of 2024.
 And these are the 7 p.m. council meetings that have the legal minimum requirement for 2023 and were never brought to council for approval.
 These are the 7 p.m. council meeting minutes that have been completed in our office as of 2024. This evening, the September 12th and September 26th minutes were approved. So we are all caught up on the 7 p.m. 2022 meeting minutes of the council.
 These are a breakdown of the 2022 and 2023 Common Council meeting minutes that do not have the legal requirement and so these need to be heavily modified. These are the Council minutes that have not been drafted per the audit and so our office needs to complete these minutes.
 These are the list of committee meeting minutes from 2023 that need to be redone because they lack information that meets the minimum standard of the open door law. And then these are a continuation of committee meeting minutes that have not been completed or approved by chairs. And that completes my presentation.
 council meeting members do you have any questions yes um is there a particular time frame that is part of this or will they have um when um we contract out will there be any um unless the time that a a contractor would have or what will be their parameters of that for the um per the ordinance
 So the timeline that I have set for the office regarding 2022 and 2023 minutes are to be done by August 1st. Our office is during the 7 p.m back in minutes for 2023 so you will continue to see those come before you but I would like to see these minutes finished and completed and as we've talked to
 the vendor that is a very realistic time frame because we're entering budget season and we want to maintain to ensure that we have a proper turnaround time to you all
 Well, in terms of the ordinance, is there for that when we don't, if they go past that, would they have to come back to us or what would be, we're giving them a blank open or what, how did, how was, what were you thinking when you wrote that? And not so much for you, but to a councilwoman, I mean, Councilman Troy Warner, what were your thoughts? I don't understand your question, what you're asking. Okay.
 The ordinance, the way you shared it, is the fact that the contractor would have unlimited time? Or is there a time frame? No, it gives the clerk the ability to contract to get outside assistance. Let's say. So if it goes past that, that's up to the clerk then? Or will it have to come back to the council? I'm understanding. There's no specific parameters that the contract has to be done in, no.
 that the ordinance gives the authority to the clerk with the approval of the president to enter into those contractual specifics. Okay. And that would be determined with the president counsel from that standpoint? If I can, I think right now we don't know what a date is going to be for them to complete it. But we can assure you that once the backlog is caught up, that's when the contract will terminate.
 The president has the authority to entering to contracts for the council and do appointments. And this follows that same precedent of giving the president the approval, the authority to approve whatever that contract may be. And from the conversation we had earlier today, it is my understanding that attorney Palmer, that Luke Britt, when he spoke earlier,
 has the authority to speak on the state stature, which is the minimum amount of standards. And then to attorney Warner,
 brought about the Council Rules Committee that spoke on a higher level of that. Is that? No, that was a city ordinance. That was city. Yeah, the city ordinance. So there's a city ordinance that's the higher level. And then there's Luke Brits that said the state that had the minimum standard. Is that correct? That's correct. The state statute provides the minimum applicable to every city and town in the state.
 The cities and towns have the authority under home rule law to set a higher standard, which this council has done in the past by requiring the clerk to not only
 uh full council meetings minutes for committee meetings also and to meet certain minimum specifications of the council okay thank you i appreciate that that was good to have that clarified today because of my i thought that when both of you all brought that up that was something that i think a lot of people um are not aware of
 And that's why I asked it again and I brought it up tonight because it's I've heard both presentations of things and hearing you all talk about that today. I think it's something that I really hope that we can go forward with and clarify the state role and then the.
 the city in ordinance because they both relate to the same issue, but one goes high and then we bring it here. I think that's a good clarification of that I don't think is out there at all. Thank you, Dr. Davis. Anyone else? Just for the record and for the question is that this is just for the past minutes. They're already getting them done for this year.
 Just for the past minutes, correct? Yes, they so the turnaround for 2024 minutes as we've been going along through the year is generally within three to five days. Miss Bolden Simpson sits on the subcommittee. We see the full council meetings and then I've also seen my committee meeting minutes.
 Within three to seven days turn around so that they're getting the 24 minutes are being kept up with. It's just now we need to go back and get the backlog to take it. So we're in compliance with state law and we don't have any issues with state board of accounts. I saw Ms. White also had her hand up.
 Ms. White. Yes, this is not a question. I just want to add some context to the minutes. If I'm not mistaken, I'm going to ask the clerk to go back and to confirm or to say that my interpretation is not correct. But at that time, it was President Tim Scott and I believe I was the vice president.
 It was during COVID and also during some other issues that individuals were experiencing. So the council did not reach out to this minute solution. We were asked if we would support the clerk office in getting caught up.
 with the minutes, but also in response to COVID. And so what happened was that the president and I, and we worked with the administration also with legal because we cannot hire a full-time employee. It's only two entities that can hire, and that is the mayor and the clerk's office. And so in response to that request,
 that we went into a contract with a minute solution. And as time went, you know, moved forward, and once those minutes had been caught up, we did not continue without,
 particular contract, but I do believe that we enter just a very slight one, try to make sure that we stay up to speed with our minutes. So I think that's important for the record. That's the history that I was recalling in regards to how we enter into contractual agreement with minutes solution. It was that we were asked to assist and support at that time the clerk's office.
 Okay, thank you. And you can correct that if I'm mistaken. It's best to get the record straight. There's so much going on. And you hear what Lou Britt is saying at the more global level, then you see what we, and so somehow we got to get, you know, so that there's consistency and a better understanding in regards to moving forward. So those are my comments.
 If there's no other comments, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Torado, does anyone from the public wish to speak in favor of 10-24? I don't see anyone from the audience or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. All right. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? Yes. I see two individuals online that would like to speak in opposition. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition? Please state your name and address for the record.
 Don Jones, 602 Cushing Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46616.
 Um, here, just as for the record, uh, I was here earlier and I had the minutes that, uh, I had a stack of minutes that were done in 2023 that were not approved. They were, um, presented not to the council, but to the committee. And so that they weren't sure that they wanted to go ahead and move forward with the minutes. So they just sat there, but, um,
 I did send the minutes to you, President McBride, in an email as opposed to giving you all that paperwork. So I made sure that you got that. And with that being said, the minutes were done. So if you have a source that is available.
 correcting them or whatever, it shouldn't take that long because they're already done. And so I just want, for the record, that the minutes were done. They were in the file. They are in the share draft, which is what I sent to President McBride. And with that being said, there was no ending to the contract with minutes solutions. It ended, I think, in
 February, January, February, I want to say of 22. That sounds about right. And so, but there was no, it wasn't because it was the end of COVID. It was because of the expense. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition? Ms. Kism, would you please unmute yourself and state your name and address?
 Sue Kessum, can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Okay, thank you. Good evening. Sue Kessum, 4022 Kennedy Drive in South Bend. I'd like to speak in opposition for it. It says that artificial intelligence is expensive. It isn't. For under $60 a month with software like Descript, Redux, Sonix, Trent, Otter, TurboScribe, and Riverside,
 You can do it with AI. I think this is unreasonable. I don't like that the contract's open-ended. I think it needs to have a hard stop at December 31st, 2024. I think that needs to be changed. I think we're already playing plenty in the clerk's office. To recap,
 The clerk makes $80,000. Deputy clerk makes $68,000. Administrative assistant makes $58,000. The deputy director of policy makes $55,500. The director of special projects makes $46,000. And there's a public relations clerk for $20,000. So that's $327,000 being spent in the clerk staff.
 I think that's plenty. And we were supposedly paying Ms. Tirado 118,450 to get it caught up when she was a consultant. Now, I don't see the need for a $50,000 new position. And they were given an additional 35,000 in the general fund line items. So I really think that this is not a good thing. I think you need to look at it
 artificial intelligence and based on what former clerk Jones said I really don't see the need for this and I advise you to vote no thank you thank you so much is there anyone else clerk Toronto mr. Jones please unmute yourself and state your name and address yes Joseph Jones 1305 Woodfield Avenue South Bend Indiana four six six one five
 I would like to start by pointing out that if anybody in attendance or watching this meeting tonight were to come to where I'm employed at and apply for a job, no matter what the job is within the company I work for, one of the things they would be asked in that job application would be whether or not they can perform the essential functions of their job
 with or without reasonable accommodation. So I think that the difference between what the expectations are for the governed versus the governing are as startling as what Ms. Jones shared tonight, which I am thankful she shared. That to me alone is reason enough that this bill should not pass. Respectfully, I would state that my opinion is that this bill and the situation surrounding
 us being in a position where we would be considering a bill like this is an example of what causes people to lose trust in government in general, not just
 You guys here tonight, but just government in general. This is the inefficiency and the wastefulness of government that people are quite honestly fed up with. And to be honest, I believe that it's a big reason why in the last two municipal election cycles, we have had historic and disappointingly low turnout. I believe people have just given up. People have just said, you know what? It doesn't matter how I vote.
 We're going to end up with the same government, which we have for 50 years, and it's going to continue to be inefficient and wasteful. If this contract is approved, which I expect it will be, to be honest, if this contract is approved, that's another expenditure by the government, which means another issuing of currency. That money money comes from somewhere. Right. We all understand that.
 Every time currency is issued, that has an effect on inflation, which the mayor spoke about not long ago at the council, what inflation is. The creation of currency, which will have to happen to fulfill this contract, has an inflationary effect because the creation of currency drives down the value of the currency. This is a completely wasteful use of the tax dollar. And with that, I'm going to go ahead and wrap up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there anyone else?
 if i don't see anyone else online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill all right at this time the public hearing portion on bill 10-24 is now closed council members would you like to make any statements or i will entertain a motion oh rebuttal yeah okay don't have any rebuttal you don't have one okay other than we're not printing any currency
 I appreciate the open discussion because it clears up any misunderstandings or brings some clarity. We don't have complete clarity, but.
 i think if i have a rebuttal it's we have a great deal of minutes um we we've got it down to approximately 50 minutes between committee and um that need to be done most of them are committee minutes and we had the clerk earlier tell us she didn't think she had to do committee minutes um we just need to get this done and get the backlog cleared up and move forward yes um i just have a comment to share i just um like others have said it's you know this is a
 this is a new year a new council a new clerk's office i'm looking forward to getting the minutes done that is owed to the public and moving forward um so i'm i'm in support of this bill and and look forward to um a new day make a motion to send 1024 forward with a favorable recommendation support
 All right, this is going to motion in a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. I have eight ayes and one nay. All right.
 This this this this bill 10 national for be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion arise from the community to hold and report back to the full council move. Second. All right. It's been moving second. All in favor say aye. Those opposed motion carry. And I asked that I couldn't open the document.
 Let's see if you could send it to me another way. You can open it. Okay, thank you so much. I appreciate it. And thank you for coming. The full council is now back in session. We will go to bills on third reading. This is the portion of the meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding the bills that were just heard in the committee of the whole. Clerk, to order, will you give substitute bill 02-24 a third reading?
 third reading of an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 11 711 leland avenue councilmanic district number one in the city of south bend indiana thank you counselor lee is there a recommendation from the committee of the whole yes uh substitute bill 02-24 was heard in the committee of the whole and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding bill substitute bill 02-24. Move for passage. Second. We'll move and second it. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Substitute Bill 0-24 has been adopted. Clerk Tarada, will you please give Bill 10-24 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Section 2-7C of Chapter 2, Article 1 of the South Bend Municipal Code, duties of the city clerk as clerk of the council to permit the city clerk to hire outside contractual services for the initial preparation of drafts of many minutes.
 Thank you. Is there a recommendation, Councillor Lee, for Bill 10-24? Yes. Substitute Bill 10-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 10-24. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Abstinently, aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Nay. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. President McBride. I have eight ayes and one nay. Thank you. Bill number 10-24 has been adopted. We will move to resolutions. Clerk Toronto, will you please give resolution 24-8 a reading? Aye.
 A resolution confirming the adoption of an electorate resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 510 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for Momentum Development Group, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 regarding resolution 24 oh yes uh resolution 24-08 was heard in community investment this afternoon and comes with a favorable recommendation thank you petitioner
 Eric Lovitz, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment offices on the 14th floor of this building. Bill number 24-08 is a confirming resolution for a tax abatement for Momentum Development Group, LLC, for the purposes of revitalizing the old Salvation Army building that is at the corner of Monroe and
 Main Street. Here's the image and the parcel on your screen. I'll try to I'll try to flip through this quickly.
 The Momentum Development Group purchased the building from the city in 2023. It had been vacant since 2015 when the Salvation Army had departed the building. The group will transform the building into a co-working space with a commercial kitchen, retail space, other amenities open to the public. You can see an image of a rendering that was provided by the developer here on the screen.
 The developer is planning to invest over $6.3 million in this project. With this project, you know, conservative estimates in terms of employment, the developers themselves would be employing seven FTEs directly, and they would anticipate that people who are renting space in the hub or utilizing it would account for another additional 60 full-time equivalents.
 Again, these are conservative estimates. It was difficult to look ahead, but the space is open. It's think of an innovation or incubator type space. So not only will they be running office space, so if you had a small business, you could run office space there, or if you need a place with a small conference room, you could rent space there, but it also be designed to be an incubator for, you know,
 startups who are looking and they need space. So that's an exciting project.
 If starting because the building is now owned by a private entity and no longer owned by the city, it will start coming out of the city's tax rolls. Currently, it's about twenty one thousand dollars in taxes annually that this project will bring in with the abatement and unlocking this investment. We're looking at a significant increase after the project is completed. We're going to be looking at taxes annually of about one hundred and fifty to fifty thousand dollars.
 something that I pointed out during the four o'clock meeting was, you know, even with this abatement,
 the taxes will increase and the reason for that is that the state's circuit breaker cap is applied to the net assessed value of the property before an abatement is applied so just by approving this tax abatement and unlocking this investment the new assessed value will immediately lead to a almost ten thousand dollar estimated increase in taxes with
 you know the abatement in place so i'm happy to answer any questions that you might have i know that momentum development group is here to answer any questions as well with that being said i will now turn to my colleagues to see if you have any questions of the petition no questions right that being said i'll turn to the public is there anyone in the public wishing to speak in favor of ronald
 I do not see anyone in the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Same said, do you see anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Thank you. With that, I'll turn back to my, the public portion is now closed. I will turn back to my colleagues to see if there's any comments. President McBride, yes.
 Councilor Warner? Yeah, I'd just like to thank Momentum. We've now, because of the process, we've seen this slide and presentation four times, so that's why most of us don't have questions. But it's very exciting, over a $6 million investment in an area of downtown where not too long ago people thought the city had given up and this was an area that was dead. I know Mr. Neal's one of his...
 comments of he and his investors are, you know, we realized at some point if we're going to change the city, nobody's going to come and do it for us. We're going to have to do it ourselves. And I thank him for putting his money and his work and his time, blood, sweat and tears behind that exact statement. So thank you. Thank you so much. Anyone else? Councilor Lee? I just want to say thank you for the investment. Again, we're going to
 This year, make money off of a property that we weren't getting any money for. And as it goes forward, it's going to continue to increase. So thank you, Momentum, for your time.
 thoughtfulness, that building, a lot of people would have driven by it and not seen a vision for it. And so to be able to have office spaces and a commercial kitchen and have all of those things that allow for business, small business to start growing and develop, this is going to be a great positive impact for that area. Thank you. Thank you. With that being said, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 2408. I move for passage.
 Second. Adoption. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk to round on the roll, please. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Eskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Bill 2408 has been adopted.
 Dr. Roderick, would you please give Bill Resolution 2409 a reading? A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, correcting Skirvin's error in Resolution No. 5015-23, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 722 Harrison Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616,
 and 726 Harrison Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, a residentially distressed area for purposes of a five-year residential real property tax abatement for Cross Community Incorporated and correcting the Scrivener's error in resolution number 5016-23, confirming the adoption of resolution number 1015-23. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, the bill was heard in community investment this afternoon and comes forward with a unanimous favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Glavage. Eric Glavage, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor. This resolution before you would correct.
 the assignment of an abatement from 2023 to an incorrect parcel. And not only are we going to have the opportunity to fix this error, but Tina Patton is also here. And this was a project that council supported last year. And I'm excited that Tina was able to come to the 7 o'clock meeting and just give you a brief update as to
 you know, her project and where things stand. This was the image. These were the images from last year when I presented to council on this abatement. And these are the images now. So at this address, it was a vacant lot using the city's pre-approved plans. We now have a brand new, beautiful single family home.
 Right next door, same thing. A beautiful, brand-new single-family home on what had been vacant lots. The resolutions that were passed last year applied the abatement for a single-family residence to the two
 parcels that you see highlighted on your screen. I'd like to point out that this aerial map is from 2023. At the time council had approved the abatement, the house that's below the yellow box actually did not exist. So if I go back to the screen, you can see that there is no house there, but the abatement was applied to these two parcels.
 The, you know, I don't need to go into the tax benefits related to this particular abatement, but if you want to just glance at them really quick, these are the estimates for each house that Cross Community had planned to build.
 So, as I mentioned, the original abatement applied to these two parcels. At the same time that we had done the abatement, Cross Community was in the process of updating the addresses. I remember having conversations with different people that addresses are dangerous things when it comes to looking at parcels because addresses can change.
 while this process was going on, it just led to some miscommunication and some confusion as to which property the houses would actually be built on. So this resolution that you are considering would actually strike
 from the abatement resolutions the property in red which i've crossed out and would add the property in teal the teal and the yellow parcels are the two parcels that cross community had built houses on it's simply does that it changes nothing else about the abatement but cross community has
 you know exceeded their commitments as it associated with the abatement from last year um you know and just the crown jewel for this block um and i know that miss patent's here so i want to give her the opportunity to um just you know provide an update as to her projects welcome
 Tina Patton, offices at 707 Sherman Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, and president of Cross Community. Always excited to talk with anyone about Cross Community and the wonderful things that we're doing on the northwest side of South Bend, particularly on Harrison Avenue. And so I know I've been to the committee a couple.
 a few times, but I know there's new committee members. And so I want to tell her and share with you some information about cross community. And in particular about the program that we have for residents of South Bend, those who want to live in the neighborhood.
 And so how our program works, Cross Community has been in existence since 2016. And so we not only address the issue of affordable housing, but we also try to do is contribute to our community's economic development. And so as you see those beautiful homes there, one of them, well, both of those are the houses that were from the city's,
 pre-approved plans and we were the first to build from the city's pre-approved plans. And so we were really excited about that. So I'll tell you a little bit about how the program works. Our properties are pre-sold.
 prospective home buyers enter into a home ownership program that we put on ourselves. It talks about credit repair, debt reduction. Also, it just gives the overall aspects of how to be a homeowner. We do pre and we do post counseling. We, once the homeowner is ready, we then introduce them to banks who will provide them with a pre-approval program.
 At that point, we begin the build process. So the homeowners have the opportunity then to select the materials for the home that they have, the colors inside and out. And so they are partners in building their homes together.
 We have received funding that allows us to subsidize the construction of the new home, which is how we are able to make it affordable. This subsidy allows us to sell the home to the potential home buyer at an affordable price. And this represents the approximate appraised value of the completed project.
 The current subsidy is up to $99,500, around that amount, which represents the appraised value of the home. So we are actually providing gap funding, gap financing for the homeowner.
 The homes generally take, I'm trying to answer all the questions that perhaps you might have, but homes generally take between six to seven months to build. The funding is not a loan. The homeowner does not have to pay any of the money back. Additionally, to make the homes more affordable, as you see here, we also have...
 are providing the five-year tax abatement, which you are approving for these homes. And then subsequently, we are also going to be building another home once we get approval for the next address, which is next door to these. We hope to be able to do that within the next 30 days. How do you become a part of the program? There is a registration that homeowners use. Usually, it's by word of mouth for people to find out that we have this program.
 There are no income requirements currently, again, because the funding that we have currently is city dollars. We hope to expand that, but currently there are no income requirements. We do have deed restrictions on the home, and those deed restrictions are that the persons need to live in the home for at least five years. And the additional deed restriction is that if they do sell the home, that they sell it to an owner occupied person as well. So we we don't want them to sell it to an investor.
 Our goal is to prepare as many people as possible to be able to be homeowners. And so we want to expand our reach. I retired from my regular day job, and so I'm really working on this affordable housing project. We actually have one home available that we're going to be, like I said, building the next 30 days. And so we are excited for anyone in the city who wants to live on the Northwest side of South Bend
 to come into our homeownership program, that they may possibly be homeowners, because we are really interested in making sure that we are building legacies, making sure that people can then create some generational wealth as well, but revitalizing this area of town. And I am happy to take anyone on a wonderful tour down our project on Harrison Street, because I believe you'll be as excited about it as I am.
 Thank you. Oh, I would love to take you up on that. That is in the first district, too. I'll cross over and visit the first district. With that, I'll turn to my colleagues to see if you have any questions of the petitioner. No questions. I think everybody's excited. Well, I have one question. You did say that most of the time people find out through word of mouth. Through word of mouth. Is there you think it's in the other way? I'm just worried about people missing out on this that you could.
 Maybe more formalize that or so we have social media, so we have a Web site. OK. Yeah, we have a Web site. And so that's how they actually are able to register. OK. But generally, the people that come in our classes, I don't know them most of the time. So, of course, we've introduced this to those that, you know, we know and that we meet. But a lot of times the people that come into our classes, I don't know them.
 And so, you know, we generally ask, how did you find out? They found out from a cousin, from a neighbor, from someone that they know or they saw it through our social media feeds. When's your next class? It actually starts on April 2nd. So that's a Tuesday starts April 2nd. It's going to be at 6 p.m. And that class will go through six weeks. Miss Patton, how many houses are you all looking to build?
 We are looking to build at least 35. And the reason I say that is because that's the number of lots that we currently own. Those are the number of lots we currently own in this area of town. We also own additional lots in other areas of town, but we are focusing right now on the northwest side of town. Nice. Thank you. Appreciate it. Down the street from my church. Yes. All right. With that being said, I will now open it up to the public portion. Clerk Toronto, you see anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2409?
 I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor or in opposition of the bill. Thank you for both. With that being said, this public portion is now closed. I will turn back to counsel. What's your pleasure? Move for adoption of 2409. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Thank you. Council Member White. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye.
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Vice President Naskowski. President McBride. Aye. All nine. Thank you. Resolution 2409 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Fort Toronto, bill 1824. Would you please give a first reading?
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property. The first 360 degrees of Boland Drive east of Portage Avenue. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1824 to Public Works and Property Vacation for third reading and public hearing on April 8th. So moved. Second. We'll move to second. All in favor? Aye. Opposition? Motions carried.
 Clerk Tirada, will you please give Bill 1924 a first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 402 West Navarre Street, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1924 to the South Bend Plan Commission for 418 and to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on April 22nd. So moved. Second. Been moving second and all in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Tirada, would you please give Bill 20-24 a reading?
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 18, Article 5 to update the procedures for vacation of public ways and public places. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 20-24 to Public Works and Property Vacation for public hearing and third reading on April 22nd. So moved. Second. So moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried.
 Clerk Tirado, would you please give Bill 21-24 a first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds of $9 million from the general fund number 101. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 21-24 to a person on finance for public hearing and third reading for April 8th.
 Move. Second. Move and second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 motions carried. Unfinished business. Council, is there any unfinished business of the council? Yes, I'd just like to thank Clerk Tirado for updating my profile. And I'd also like to thank her for the work that she's done on the committee minutes from year 2014. And so I appreciate all that and look forward to all of that being able to be publicly reviewed. So I'm just grateful. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council, any other unfinished business from the council? Yes, I'd like to say to the public and everything, say to the public that I'm going to concur with Miss Rachel Thomas Morgan that we are in a new day.
 And we're trying to move forward. And some things we have to just let go and move and move on and learn from any mistakes or errors or misunderstandings that we have. So we're all working together for the betterment of South Bend. Thank you. Anyone else? Is there any new business? Seeing none, I will now open to the privilege of the floor. Dr. Rado, do you see anyone that's pushing to speak for the privilege of the floor? There's a three minute break.
 time limit and the maximum for this portion will be 30 minutes. We have, excuse me, we have one individual, one line wishing to speak under privilege of the floor and that is Ms. Kism. Ms. Kism, please unmute yourself and state your name and address.
 Thank you. Sue Kessler, 4022 Kennedy Drive, South Bend. Wanted to try and cover three points tonight. The Financial Data Transparency Act passed in 2022.
 What this means is that when the city produces their budget, they need to make it in a machine readable form. And what machine readable form means that it can be scanned and analyzed by artificial intelligence. So I wanted to bring that to your attention for the upcoming budget season.
 I want to know about Ms. Tirado's trip to D.C. with the South Bend Council as a private citizen. This was before coming clerk. I want to know if she paid for her trip or if it was paid for by the taxpayers. In regards to the consulting contract, 11 times Ms. Tirado was paid over the contract amount, which was restricted to a payment of $6,000 per month.
 One, why did she overbill the city of South Bend when she knew the contractual amount? Two, who signed and authorized these overpayments? Three, will the taxpayers be getting these overpayments back? And four, why was the rest of the council not consulted before entering into this contract? Thank you.
 Thank you for your comments, and I will briefly answer them so the clerk's office wouldn't have to follow up or myself. The first question, I believe, is related to the contract. As the president of the council, I do not have to consult with each council member in order to make a hire into a contract or agreement. However, I did speak with all but two council members briefly about the hire of Ms. Tirado before she became hired.
 So and I also have the authority within the line item when there were administrative duties that were not being performed by the previous clerk's office to ensure that they were taken care of. So this has been addressed several times publicly, press releases, news media over the past year. So I appreciate the comment again. And I probably think this would be the last time I'll probably address this topic.
 With that being said, I don't know, parliamentarian, am I missing anything?
 And I think that probably overpayments, the overpayments. Also, they were in the line items. And I believe legal also addressed that before within it being an appropriation line. I believe we had this conversation a few weeks ago or no more than 30 days ago when the same information was provided that there was a job that needed to be done. We were within the budgetary amount of the line that was appropriated. Therefore, it was appropriate to do so.
 and if you need a legal contract though it's not a violation of the contract and if you would like to further information you could follow up with the legal department thank you and also i think the information the last thing that you asked about the trip i believe also legal has a response for that and there was not anything done inappropriate um on that matter also but we will direct you to legal for um a formal response and thank you i believe we see another person on
 Mr. Joseph Jones, please state your name and unmute yourself. Thank you. Joseph Jones, 1305 Woodfield Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46615. When I've been at the council in person, I've done this previously. So I'm just going to recite a line from scripture because obviously members of the council, as in any form of government, have a yes or no vote on anything that comes before the floor. Right.
 Matthew 537 says, simply let your yes be a yes and your no be a no. And with that, I will wish everybody a good evening. Thank you. Is there anyone else that been said? Have a good night. Is adjourned. That's right. That's not the analysis. It's that.