i got you i got those there yes ready clerk good evening i would like to call monday april 8th 2024 common council meeting to order or toronto i believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations good evening members of the public for audio quality we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers in at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called during the relevant time for public
 My name is full name and I live at address and I would like to speak on floor for or or or against agenda item. You will be then given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving a remark. Thank you. Thank you. It's time we will have a vacation by Pastor Lee. Good evening. Please bow your heads. Almighty and gracious God, as the South Bend Common Council gathers tonight, we seek your wisdom and guidance.
 Grant us clarity of thought, unity of purpose, and compassion in decision making. May our deliberations be just and our actions honorable, and let the outcomes be beneficial to all citizens. Bless us with the courage to serve with integrity, humility, and always mindful of the common good. In your name we pray. Amen. Thank you. Clerk Tirado, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Dr. Davis. Present.
 council member lee president council member warner council member bolden simpson president council member white president council member thomas morgan president council member good and rogers vice president of goski president president mcbride president all nine president thank you next we will have a report from the subcommittee on minutes
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the March 25th, 2024 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. The committee report. I'd second that. With all due respect, share your comments regarding those of us who are going to stay. Toronto, if you can make the statement about the new minutes versus the old minutes, please.
 so that was the 2024 minutes she's going to do 24 minutes that'll have 20 23 minutes and put that statement in can we move forward dr david 26 this was the 2024 last last meeting yeah on 26 as many we will uh move there was a motion on the floor by councilman warner and i second it can we have the um roll please council member dr davis council member bolden simpson
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Vice President Dostoevsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of November 27th, 2023,
 and December 11th, 2023, meeting of the Common Council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. This recommendation for approval is made recognizing that three current members of the council, Councilmember Dr. Davis, Councilmember Bolden-Simpson, and Councilmember Gooden-Rogers were not seated in 2023, and such will be abstaining from any formal approval of old minutes.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to accept the minutes of November 27, 2023 and December 11, 2023. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Vice President Dostoevsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes.
 Thank you President pride. If I may, before we move on, yes, I just like to ask as as we've been going back and reviewing sometimes in the video not everybody speaks into the microphone and if people could remember to speak in the microphone,
 council member white you have very soft voice your words are always very powerful okay i'm going to work on that thank you thank you appreciate it would be uh much appreciated no problem is that better staff that's great okay thank you thank you thank you at this time i would like to entertain a motion resolve into the committee of the whole move in second clerk toronto the role please
 And I'm calling the roll each time because we have people on our council on Zoom. So for Robert's rule of orders, it's not by acclamation. We're calling the roll each time. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meetings where bills are given a second reading in public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 17-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 922 East Colfax Avenue, Councilman District number four in the city of South Bend, Indiana. All right. We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. There was a committee report. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is. Mr. Chair, we have a committee report from the Zoning and Analyzation Committee. We bring this bill to you with a favorable recommendation pending the written commitments, and we would like for our attorney to read into the record the written commitments that pertain to this particular bill. Microphone. They can't hear you. The written commitment? No.
 I can read it. That'd be okay. So the written commitment would be the property shall be used in a manner that provides personal care, social services, counseling services, and or transportation to residents. And we had one more thing in that part of it was limited to. Okay, cool. I'm at peace. All right.
 All right. Okay. Thank you. And now, so that does with the reading of what our attorney and what Councilman Warner said, we do bring that to you with a favor recommendation. All right. The petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Skip Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of this building. This is bill number 17-24, properties located at 922 Colfax, and the owner is 922 East Colfax, LLC.
 Kind of to give some context, this project is called Haven by the Bend, and they're looking to serve as a non-licensed residential care home slash housing with services for the elderly. The home will offer 10 bedrooms, private bathrooms, shared amenities, and 24-hour care services. And this is a request of a special exception for a group residence. This is another view of that property, looking at it from the northeast.
 A group residence aligns with the intent of Woodstone NC Neighborhood Center, which is intended to kind of support a mixture of commercial uses and then higher density dwelling units. The property was formerly used as a dementia day services center, and the new use as the unlicensed residential care facility should similarly interact with the surrounding neighborhood in a low-impact manner.
 Looking kind of more broadly, Colfax Avenue is a mixed-use corridor, and the group residence will offer multiple dwelling units in a structure that is suitable for that use. So this comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation, and as we discussed in the committee meeting, subject to an additional condition that the property shall be used in a manner appropriate.
 that provides personal care, social services, counseling services, and or transportation to residences. And I believe the petitioner is also here. We'd ask that they would come and address us if they would like to make any statements. Give your name and address. My name is Kay Fernandez, and I live at 51969 Lakeland Court, Granger, Indiana. My name is Malisa Aquino. I live in 17647 Woodridge Court, South Bend, Indiana.
 And if you'd just like to make any statements regarding what you guys are doing for the record. Okay. The 922 East Colfax property, we're trying to transform it into a senior housing with service establishment, which will allow provide alternative placement for older people that don't want to go to Big Bucks facility. And we offer 24 care seven support and help other health related areas.
 where they can be given personalized and attentive care. So it looks like it will be residential care facility, assisted living in a home-like setting. Thank you. Council members, we did a lot of this discussion during the committee meetings, but as council members, would you like to ask any other questions of the petitioners? I just have one of Councilman Warner.
 But not of the petitioners. So whenever that time is available, I'd like to ask. We'll circle back to that one. Anyone else? If not, let's go to the public hearing portion. I'm sorry, Reverend Bolden-Simpson has a question. I'm sorry. That's all right. I was a little. You're muted. You're muted. You got to unmute yourself.
 How about right now? There you go. OK. Ladies, again, like really, this is really wonderful. And that's I'm just trying to find out more about this. How do people you have an application process? I didn't ask about that. How do they how do people find out about this and.
 To become a resident. Yes, mostly most of our residents are from referral. Like we work with nurses in the community. We work with physical therapists and also with the families that are, you know, with the families of our residents. So we have not really been involved with referral.
 you know, like a publishing company, you know, that to market our facility. We have it's more word of mouth. And even when sometimes we're full, we get some calls of inquiry and we try to have a waiting list. And that's why we kind of feel the need for us to have another one so we can cater for those, you know, with the defined options. And so this is another option for them.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. There's no question. Oh, yes. Vice President Naskowski. Thank you, Chair. I was just reading through looking through the paperwork and I apologize. I was not able to make the committee meeting. And I know we're voting on the zoning for this. But my question is, I just wondered, what is the difference between I noticed it refers to licensed and unlicensed.
 a couple of times. What's the difference just from my own knowledge?
 Yeah, the assisted living facility in the state of Indiana, they have classifications as licensed and unlicensed. And the major difference is like the nursing care that can be provided and ability to administer medications. So in with the unlicensed facility, we will not be able to administer medications directly. So we work with home care services who are licensed.
 to take care of that. We help them, like remind them and make sure that they're taking their medications, but we don't administer them. So that's the technicality of it. And also with, we have like a higher ratio, like for the nursing, like for the caregivers to our residents. So this is more like personalized care. Okay. Thank you so much. I appreciate the explanation. Thank you.
 and we did address that in the committee meetings yeah yeah i figured you did but i still had to ask the question thank you so much thank you if i may yes sir so council member nick scotsky in regard to the zoning and the licensing um this facility uh was done for a similar use however that operator was licensed so they could do it by right
 This operator will bring in outside people with the license. So that's why they're requiring the special exception for the group residents. Yeah, we talked about this pretty extensively in committee. Okay, thank you. All right, if no one else will now go to the public. Is there anyone, Clerk Torado, looking to speak in favor 17-24?
 I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone looking to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 17-24 is now closed. Mr. Davis, you had a question. Yes, I would just like to...
 I asked our Councilman Warner for him to just explain what was the need for the written commitments, because I thought that was a good idea and I appreciated that. And so could you just share that because he had some good comments that I just wanted that to be shared again tonight, please. Sure, I'd be happy to. So as was said earlier in committee, this is a group residence,
 special exception that stays with the building. So if this operator were to no longer operate in that building, that group residence exception would continue to go with the building. And there are some uses that maybe some students, in particular, I had a resident that lives across the street that already has some issues with large party houses and students, and this would make sure that,
 this special exception stays limited to health and special services and care treatment services so thank you again for clarifying that i really thought that was a good idea and so i wanted to have that as a part of the evening record as well as not only this day afternoon i'm done thank you
 Is there any council members who would like to make any statements or I would entertain them? Okay. I just want to thank you for your commitment and your investment in South Bend proper. I know well of the quality of care that you provide in your other homes just north of the city and appreciate the additional options that you'll be able to provide our seniors here in South Bend. So thank you very much.
 anyone else if not i will entertain a motion i move that we send bill 17-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation with second oh with the written with the addition of the um the written commitment second second well he's sucking up cool did i hear a second yeah councilwoman white all right i wouldn't um clerk toronto please call the roll
 council member thomas morgan aye council member white aye council member warner aye council member bolden simpson council member lee aye council member dr davis aye council member gooden-rodgers aye vice president niskowski aye president mcbride aye nine eyes
 all right bill 17-24 we're going before the full council with a favorable recommendation clerk toronto would you please give bill 21-24 a second reading public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana appropriating additional funds of 9 million dollars from the general fund number 101 is there a committee report yes the bill was heard
 a personnel finance committee this afternoon and comes forward with a unanimous favorable recommendation all right we see that the petitioner is here i ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the builders before us yes uh kyle will the city controller offices on the 12th floor
 bill number 21 24 um it's a non-million dollar appropriation for uh from the general fund to go towards the phase two of the morris uh project morris uh performing arts center renovation project uh morris is uh as you all know is one of our big uh performing arts centers here uh
 a very nice asset that we have here. So it's been awarded one of the best live music venues, best live theaters, held over 100 events in 2023, sold over 74,000 tickets, and brought in a little under 3.8 million in box office revenue, helped various community-wide free events and attracted thousands of attendees over last year.
 Phase one improvements involved infrastructure replacements on the main floor of the theater. Carpet was replaced within the entire Morris and the Palais Royale. Repainted handrails and also upgraded the seating in the theater as well.
 Some of the other improvements were replacement of heating and cooling systems, roof replacements, new building automation system, and lighting upgrades. Phase two is for the construction of the Racklin-Murphy Encore Center. This will be a new building in addition to the theater, which will add about 20,000 square feet and special event space facilities.
 additional restrooms and provide storage and theater support to the moors. With this new space, it would also help support the equity and the arts program here in South Bend. Timeline for this project, we anticipate bidding this out early, not early, but this spring. Construction will take place later this summer. We anticipate the completion of this building to be late 2025 or early 2026.
 So just some renderings funding for this project, as I stated earlier, now we will look to use $9 million from the general fund that will be reimbursed from PSEDA funds over the next six to seven years. We have $6 million currently in private donations going towards this phase and also $1.5 million in ready grant funds that we appropriated earlier this year.
 Just one other thing I just wanted to add though, there are no new local tax dollars levied for to go towards this project. So these are funds from cash on hand and other sources of revenue. Here is a video kind of taking on a short tour of what it would look like in the building once it's finished.
 Then phase three, sort of garage development that will help support any parking needs to the Moors. We anticipate, well, we budgeted about $12 million for this project, but it will be driven by Moors' needs and any other development opportunities. So currently right now, this project is still early on in the work, so we're...
 you know uh cost could change cost could come down um but and also we also have we have nine million currently pledged toward this uh towards this phase of the project uh so we will start to receive those um those those donations over the over the coming years so here's just a summary of all three phases phase one was 10 million supported by hotel moto tax revenues uh like i said like i said earlier these those uh that phase was was to uh
 and provide updates and replacements to the Morris Theater. Second phase of 16 and a half million for the construction of the Racklin Murphy Encore Center. Nine million of that coming from the general fund to be repaid back into the general fund from PSCDA revenues. And the third phase for the garage development right now estimated at 12 million, but still early on in the process.
 with that i will uh open it up for any any additional any addition but any other questions council members do you have any questions
 mr warner yeah mr willis we're going to talk about the professional sports and convention district area a couple times tonight can you go ahead and explain that for us and those funds and where those funds are coming from yeah so those funds the area is essentially is the downtown area and those funds are made up of state revenues and um state tax revenues and income tax revenues and they are have a specific use for those for those funds um
 A sporting event is one of them, which is like Forewinds Field. Performing arts venues such as the Morris or even the Central Center or even Howard Park.
 um if you recall last year we were able to uh the state a lot of us an additional three million so we were previously um receiving two million annually from from the psed revenues now we are able to receive up to five million uh in psd psed revenues so some of those revenues will go towards uh like i said the repayment of the general fund that's going towards these these phase these
 This phase phase two of the Morris project. Yes. Councilwoman Thomas Morgan. I asked us in committee, but I think it's worth repeating. I understand that the the the the cash will be reimbursed.
 from the general, it will be reimbursed from the general fund, but can you speak to the health of our general fund? Yes. General fund is healthy and has a has a healthy balance. So before we before we would get have to get into our reserves, there would need to be I don't want to call it an overspend, but a spend down of about 28 million before we would get into our reserves. So I think we right now that the general fund is positioned to be able to make this additional appropriation. Thank you.
 So with that being said, no current projects will be hampered by this kind of a decision. No. Any other questions? Again, it's being reimbursed and the money that we're getting is through that state partnership, state-local partnership. And this is money that we get to keep here in South Bend to develop things like,
 the morris the cup stadium and and the century center so it's a really great partnership with all of the people who work together to make it possible mr warner all right i'm sorry honey uh we want to let we we do want to mention that the elected officials from the state that have worked to help make this happen to you like to do that yes yeah uh yeah so it
 yeah this has been a long time uh in the works and uh I know I think Mr Nussbaum said at the meeting the other day through the redevelopment Commission the redevelopment Authority the state legislature and now the council there's already been nine public meetings and that was before even tonight and there's still a couple more steps I know uh particularly on the uh
 the sports bond for the stadium. But, you know, this was really was a partnership with the state legislature, with Senator Mishler and Senator Niedzigatzky and State Representative Bauer and State Representative Teschke. As Kyle said, we expanded it a year ago and slowly been making our way. And it's exciting to get here towards the end.
 if there's no other questions from council members at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion uh clerk toronto is anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 21-24 i ask that you will come to the podium state your name and address for the record oh i'm sorry i'm so sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry uh we have petitioners extra petitioners here can we we have the extra
 State your name, extra petitioners. Yes, sir. No, no, not this bill. This is the Morris. Our extra petitioners will be for the four wins. I was just going by my president. All right. All right. So if you would like to speak in favor of this bill, please state your name and address for the record.
 Thank you. I'm Regina Emberton, and my address is 615 West Colfax in South Bend, Indiana. This is my husband, Brad Emberton, of the same address, and we're here to speak in favor of this funding. As co-chairs of the Morris 100 campaign, we're here to speak on behalf of the many donors who have committed the over $15 million of private funding to the overall Morris 100 campaign project that you just learned about or heard more about.
 This funding approval advances the public-private partnership, leveraging the private investment alongside public funds and will bring significant benefits to our community. The Morris Performing Arts Center has been a cultural hub in South Bend for over 100 years. And by expanding and modernizing the facilities, we're enhancing our city's cultural landscape. This enrichment contributes to the vibrancy of our community and fosters a sense of pride among our residents. However, the investment is not just about culture.
 A modernized venue attracts more visitors, boosting tourism and local businesses. Restaurants, hotels, and shops will all see increased traffic, leading to economic growth. A state-of-the-art facility also expands our ability to recruit a greater number and diversity of acts, enriching our quality of life and ultimately retaining and attracting additional talent into the city.
 In summary, the South Bend Common Council's decision to support the Morris Performing Arts Center's expansion is an investment in our city's future. We look forward to celebrating the arts, economic growth, and community spirit that this project will bring. Thank you. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Thank you.
 I ask that you state your name and address. Evening, Council. Aaron Perry, address at 219 East Colfax Avenue, South Bend, 46617. Here to speak strongly in favor of this and thank the Council for the historic support of this initiative going forward. Back in 2021, before any funds had been raised, before any plans had been drawn, the Council passed a resolution in support of the Morris 100 suite of initiatives.
 recognizing at that point in time how important this building is to the cultural and economic impact of our entire community. So thank you for your ongoing support. I'd like to, again, recognize the Embertons for their support of leading a committee of
 a very diverse committee of over, I think over 50 people throughout the community who have put their fingerprints on this plan and of course the Greg and Mary Downs who have also led that committee prior to the Emberton.
 And then the other folks that I would like to recognize as a resident that I know are putting a lot of work into this behind the scenes, people like Eric, Jordan and Amy, city staff. These things don't happen without a significant amount of work. So, again, here to speak in favor and appreciate your support. All right. Thank you. Is there anyone online or in person wishing to speak in opposition? I ask that you state your name and address for the record.
 Yes, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. Council members. So I'm represented by four council members. At large, Karen White. At large, Oliver Davis. At large, Rachel Morgan. And my second district representative, Ophelia Rogers. So I'm here to ask the four of you to vote no and to not spend this $9 million on this project.
 And specifically to Ms. Rogers, as my second district representative, I ask you, who do you represent? In this vote, you do not represent the mayor. You represent the people of the second district. So that should be your allegiance on this vote today. And I hope to see that here in this vote. So what we just heard the general the petitioner come up and say is we had three point eight million dollars.
 in a box office revenue. Well, you guys are here to vote. If we're going to spend another nine million dollars, the math doesn't add up. This this.
 It's only one phase. This is the second phase of a three-phase project, which will then be more phases after that. It's just going to – the revenues are not there to justify us to keep spending this money. And then they keep selling us this dream, and we're going to see this all throughout the night of if you build it, they will come. It was a great movie, but we're just not – we're not seeing it. So if anything out of this, I asked Ms. Rogers –
 Support your district and vote no. Thank you very much. All right. Is there anyone else? I do not see anyone else from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition of this bill. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 2124 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? Thank you. I would like to make a statement. Yes.
 Yes. Thank you, Chair. I would just like to say what a great public private partnership that this project is moving forward. And it was nice seeing Aaron Perry again. And the presentation was really great. It was just great. And I believe I heard over 50 donors, I believe, looking that have donated towards this phase two donation.
 It is just going to be such a game changer for the entire city of South Bend, the cultural impact that it will have, and it will attract new venues and bigger venues.
 to the newly renovated Morris Civic Theater. So I just couldn't be more delighted with this project and I do plan on voting yes for this. And thank you so much for the presentation. I especially liked the part where you could ascend up to the stairs there in a virtual way. That was pretty cool. So thank you, that was my statement. Anyone else, Rachel?
 I just want to add that, you know, this isn't a zero-sum game. This is a project and investment in our community that will last generations. And it's something that will lift our entire community, lift all boats. So I look forward to supporting this bill. And I would just like to say that I believe that it's very important. I was a kid of the arts. The Morris Civic was a place as a kid going. Right.
 It made me think bigger. I did band. I did drama. It impacted me. I went on to school and was very involved in theater in school. So the arts have a great impact on our children and having a facility that's world class.
 That's important. And I don't know about anybody else, but I want to live in a city where we have nice stuff to go to and nice things going on in our city. And the fact that the state legislator all work together to make this money available that state.
 stays here in our city and it's going to pay for it so um that's that's what we have to look at is is that opportunities have been made and and and this is an opportunity to capitalize and make our city better so with that being said um i would now entertain a motion
 make a motion to send 1724 forward with a favorable recommendation second i think sherry bolden simpson sorry to interrupt online wishing to make a comment
 Yes, ma'am. Yes, I'll just quickly say in 1970, about 77, I performed at the Morris and I'm very happy to see this. And I do believe when we build it, people will come. We want to have nice things. That's all I want to say. All right. Thank you. So I will now entertain that motion now. I make a motion to send Bill 2124 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second the motion.
 All right. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Miskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 All right. Bill 2124 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. All right. Please call the roll. Clerk Tirada. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye.
 council member white aye council member thomas morgan aye council member dr davis hi vice president neskovsky hi president mcbride hi all right motion carries thank you the full council is now back in session we are on bills that are on third reading
 This portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding the bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Toronto, will you please give Bill 1724 a third reading?
 Third, reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 922 East Colfax Avenue, Councilmanic District number four in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes. Thank you.
 Madam President, Bill 17-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 17-24. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 1724 has been adopted. Clerk Toronto, will you please give Bill 2124 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana appropriating additional funds of nine million dollars from the general fund number 101.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 21-24? Yes, Bill 21-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full counsel with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 21-24. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 2124 has been adopted. Resolutions. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Resolution 2410 a reading.
 A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a lease between the South Bend Redevelopment Authority and the South Bend Redevelopment Commission relating to the Ford-Winds Field at Kovaleski Stadium project and taking other actions related thereto. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yeah, the bill was heard, and this one is personal finance committee and comes forward with a unanimous favorable recommendation. Thank you. Petitioner?
 Yes, Kyle Willis, City Controller, office is on the 12th floor. Resolution 2410 for the issuance of bonds for the Four Winds Field renovation and expansion project. This is home to the South Bend Cubs. Over the last, I think last year, they received an award that recognized long-term success and community involvement. So I think the Cubs have been here for about over 35 years. Last year, they sold out about 75% of their games.
 I live very, I live fairly close, so I get to see the amount of fans that attend the game, especially when the weather is nice. Had over 3 million fans since 10 games here since about 2012, and they definitely had a positive impact on the downtown economy here.
 Some of the projects taking place with this bond financing will be new main entrance, updated plumbing, structural, electrical, mechanical systems, updated seats, second deck area that will add more suites, more restrooms, an event area, and a capacity of about 50% more to the stadium. Mm-hmm.
 There's also be a new administrative building with additional space for food prep, offices, restrooms, splash pad and playground for the kids, and a relocated kids zone for the kids to enhance their experience when they attend these baseball games. Timing of this, we anticipate issuing bonds in early to mid-June, bidding to go out in June as well, and construction will take place this fall once the baseball season has ended.
 This is about a $45 million project that we will issue bonds for pay for. As we mentioned earlier, these will come from the professional sports development area.
 like i said the earlier uh the amount we used to receive was two million we now received up to five million uh that would go towards repayment of these bonds um so these funds get to stay locally otherwise they would have been sent downstate um and these with this revenue there are no new no new taxes for this increase the you know normally uh
 Well, the history of this revenue fund is about it generates about seven to eight million annually, and we are able to receive up to five million. So most of that will go towards the repayment of these bonds over the next 20 years. And here there are some renderings of what the finished product would look like. But also here is today with us is Andrew Berlin, the South Bend Cubs owner. He would like to speak to the resolution as well.
 Thank you. Welcome, Mr. Berlin. Good evening. Thank you for having me. Thank you very much for the presentation. As the indication indicated, if you don't mind stating your name, I'm very sorry. The record, Andrew Berlin, an address here in the apartments over by the Ivy by the stadium here in South Bend. I also have it at home in Illinois.
 And actually that experience of being from Illinois and working in Indiana, I can tell you that there is no such thing as a PSCDA in Illinois. Indiana has it because you run at a surplus. And I know the gentleman earlier talked about the funds being used for whether the Morris or the stadium or wherever it might be. The funds can't be used anywhere else.
 These are income taxes and sales taxes that have been collected that normally would go to Indianapolis and disappear in the treasury there and distributed throughout the state of Indiana. But Indiana is lucky enough to have this kind of legislation where income taxes and sales taxes that are paid here come back specifically for the use for entertainment, convention, and sports. It can't be used for any other purpose. And if it's not used for that purpose, South Bend doesn't get all that money.
 And so there's $5 million a year that's allocated to South Bend, even though this area is going to be generating close to $7 to $8 million. The bottom is at least going to be $5 million for 20 years, and so it's $100 million over 20 years, but because of the bonding process, there's less available.
 Having said all of that, the economic impact at the South Bend Cubs is extraordinary. Last year, it was calculated about $24 million returned to the city of South Bend in just one year. With the increase in the stadium, increase in the seats, we hope to come close to doubling that, to the extent that we double capacity. We sold out many of our games throughout the summer.
 We're not selling out many games in April, given the weather and such, although tomorrow is opening day and we encourage everybody to stop by the stadium to come see a great game. But the fact of the matter is having the Cubs here is one of the most premier and most magnificent brands in the game of baseball. And the fact that the Cubs are here, they're here because of the quality of the stadium, the quality of the field, the quality of the development and the support from the city.
 We're very lucky to have the Cubs pick the city to bring their Sigla affiliate. But having said all of that, I don't want to talk too much about the numbers, although I already have. For me, it's more than just about baseball. What we're able to do here is we have an extraordinary venue in the city where people come together, communities come together at this field at very, very affordable minor league baseball prices.
 and can bring families and children here. And every year we have about 350,000 people stop by that stadium and enjoy a night under the stars in the summertime. With the increased size of the capacity of the stadium, we could have double that in a single season.
 Improving downtown South Bend is good for all of South Bend. That goes for the Morse, that goes for the museums, it goes for the zoo, it goes for the convention center, it goes for Fort Wentz Field. It makes a vibrant city and attracts more people, keeps people here.
 And as you said before, in terms of the quality of life it provides for families, it really is extraordinary. I won't wax any further about baseball. As you can tell, I'm enthusiastic about this. But I'm very, very happy that the state of Indiana provides this very unique tool to finance this kind of construction without raising taxes. So I am very much in favor of it. Thank you. Thank you. With that, I'll turn to my colleagues, see if you have any questions. Yes. Thank you.
 Dr. Davis. Yeah, one for Mr. Berlin. Yes, sir. Hey, Mr. Berlin. Thank you for what you're doing. How does this kind of development put us closer to getting a AAA bog park? That's a great question. I would rather answer that question privately instead of in front of a microphone, because if we get the AAA, that means AAA, whoever has AAA now becomes single A.
 And I know that wouldn't happen without a fight. So anything is possible. I'll say that I'm not in a position to comment on what the Cubs are planning, but we're certainly going to have a, the kind of stadium with the capacity and the quality that could service the AAA team. I'll say it that way. Okay. So I can accept that. Yeah. Thank you. And then we'll meet probably to talk about it. Okay, cool. Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Anyone else?
 No, with that being said, I will turn to the public. Council Member Bolden-Simpson has a question. Yes, Councilor Bolden-Simpson. Thank you.
 Thank you. I just, I had a question about, and it's the math teacher me when the numbers don't sink, I have to ask. On that first line, I think Mr. Willis, he had answered it, but I think I went in a public record. It says the proposed bond will be issued in one or more series in amount not to exceed, and it has $45 million. But then in parentheses,
 It says $50,250,000. Okay. Yes. Yeah, he was explaining it that I think you said, well, Mr. Willis, if you can just speak to that and help me understand that. Yes, I think you had a different version from what was submitted. The version I provided to you, an email, had...
 the the amount not to exceed 50 million reading 50 million 250 000 written out and in parentheses but the and then the version that you had had 45 million written out and
 and my in parentheses was 50 50 million 250 000. okay so i think you just had a different version that was not uh correct it's in the letter in the cover letter the cover letter says that has what he's talking about is in the cover letter so and what i was referring to was the you're referring to the bill yeah yeah so the uh the cover letter was it was inaccurate i'm sorry okay
 So the cover letter is in it. OK. I was searching for it, thought it was updated and everything. So I just as long as it's written, I'm good that it's written that it's 50 million, 250,000. And I'm in favor of it. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, I will turn it to the public. Clark Toronto, do you see is there anyone in the audience, first of all, who would like to speak in favor of Resolution 2410? Stop for a second. It's like in here.
 Evening, Council. Aaron Perry, address 219 East Colfax 46617. What an exciting night for South Bend. I'll use my message of support to publicly thank Andrew Berlin, someone that, as we all know, has over the course of the past decade or so invested. I think the sum is about thirty two million dollars in and around the ballpark of his personal money.
 But much has been said about this legislation that's available downstate. Wanted to recognize Andrew's effort in getting that not only reenacted locally, but also raised to the $5 million mark that we have today. Thanks to the cooperation of the state representatives that were mentioned earlier,
 um it was a pleasure to be downstate with andrew on a few different occasions including most recently uh signing in the governor's office so i just wanted to use my message of support to again publicly recognize not only the economic impact that's coming from these investments but also the residual impact that comes from private investments such as the ones i mentioned earlier thanks for your support thank you is there anyone else
 I have a Mr. Richard online that's wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Can you please unmute yourself and state your name and address, please? Yes, my name is Richard Nussbaum, N-U-S-S-B-A-U-M, 210 South Michigan Street, Suite 500, South Bend, Indiana. I just want to point out a couple of things.
 Number one, there was a statement earlier in the proceedings, not necessarily in this bill, but there was a statement made about building it, and we will comment. There was a negative connotation to that. And I think it's important to point out for the record that this stadium has been in existence for 35 years. There's been 35 seasons, and there's been one season which was canceled because of COVID. So I factored in some simple math.
 200,000 fans a year as an average, 35 years, 7 million fans. By any metric, this stadium has been an unqualified success. We built it. They came. You're going to improve it, and more are going to come. Secondly, I think it's important to point out that without our professional sports team here in South Bend, we would not be eligible for these funds.
 The fact that we have a professional sports team here that's played in a city facility makes us eligible for these funds. And it's really great that the Morris is being presented at the same time as this four wins field, because you can see that the funding of the Morris and the funding of the stadium are both coming from the same pot of money. And that says a lot for professional sports here in South Bend and what Andrew has done with the team.
 And finally, I would just like to say that Aaron Perry, who just spoke, was a crucial part of the 2021 legislation where we got the professional sports development legislation reinstated for South Bend. And also in getting it raised from $2 million to $5 million. So this is a great night for South Bend. I mentioned earlier in the committee meeting that today is Joe Kernan's birthday.
 And he's he's he's he's in my mind a lot. And I know that if I didn't say what I said tonight, he'd be really angry with me. So, Joe, we're doing this for you, too, and for all the citizens here in South Bend. Thank you. Thank you. With that being said, I'll turn clerk Toronto. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? Well, first, I'll turn to the audience. Please come up and state your name and address for the record.
 Yes, Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So the petitioner did say $45 million for the bonds and no new taxes. And Councilwoman Bolden Simpson did address a point that I was going to bring up, that the cover letter, let me pull it up here, it said...
 The proposed bonds will be issued in one or more series in an amount not to exceed $45 million, and that was spelled out, and then it followed $50,250,000. So because of that mistake, I was going to come here today and say that we should delay this at least two weeks because this is what you guys sent to the public. Everybody that is subscribed to the mailing list received this, and I believe the taxpayers…
 deserve an accurate cover letter and an accurate bill because when I read this cover letter and then I follow through the bill and I see the 45 million and then 50 million dollars which is it five million dollars is a significant chunk of change to not know which is which so for that reason and you guys today did not issue a corrected bill or a correct or correct the error
 Until it was brought to your attention, I believe that's one reason to delay this for two weeks so the rest of the public can have that information in front of them. And going after this or to the next point, the tax levy in this in this bill. It says the payment of lease rentals also will be secured by a levy of special benefits tax in the event that revenues are ever insufficient.
 So if they don't raise the funds that they project or think they're going to project, how is that – it's going to be paid via property taxes. You guys are going to issue a levy to pay for these bonds. If that was not the case, you guys would have not put that in there. And then you're going to come back to me and say, well, Mr. Foster, we only put that in there to get a lower –
 a lower interest rate. Well, why did they give you that lower interest rate? Because you have the security that the taxpayers are going to bail you out and pay for these bonds in the case that these guys can't pay for it, or it's not going to be paid in the manner that you guys think it's going to be paid for. And with that being said, when we talk about the insufficient funds,
 Can you tell us the approximate projected interest charges, finance charges, legal fees, underwriting, or any other fees associated with issuing these bonds? Can the petitioner or someone answer that question today? Thank you. Well, I can. That deal would be better normally. You have to give me an opportunity. Thank you. Mr. Willis? Thank you. Thank you.
 First off, like I said, the cover letter is wrong. We're not here to approve the cover letter. The bill that's in front of you is correct. It is accurate. The amount not to exceed $50,250,000, that is the highest amount that we can issue bonds for. What we are intending on issuing is $45 million in bonds for this project.
 Secondly, the special benefits tax. Yes, that is a tool that we can use when we go to issue these bonds to make investors more comfortable with this project. No, not this project, but this financing that in the event if revenues were to come up short, we would have to issue that. We have to levy their tax. But with the history of these revenues.
 of being seven to eight million we're receiving five to eight million the anticipated debt service that we are uh projecting to pay back these bonds are an amount of 3.6 million so um to say that we are going to come up short on these on the payment of these bonds i don't think will happen um i've been i've been issuing bonds in my previous role with the city of indian indianapolis um
 18 years. So I'm very, I'm well aware of how we structure this, the revenue source that's used to pay, repay the bonds. It would be, I would say, irresponsible of us if we were to issue this, knowing that there's a chance to come up short on these, on the repayment of these bonds. So not only just the revenues are sufficient, we also have a policy, a surety policy that will be in place so that if we do come up short,
 there's a policy that we tap into that makes up that difference. So at least getting to where we would have to issue a levy, we have to go through two other mechanisms before we even get there. But the special benefits tax, that is more of a marketing tool that we use to drive the rate down from investors. Thank you.
 Could you share a little bit more about the security bonds that you're talking about that you would have to go through that step? So...
 so like i said we we anticipate the debt service being about 3.6 million um let's say we brought in uh three the revenues were at three million so we have a six million dollar gap not six million six hundred thousand dollar gap there um there's a surety policy in place that we would uh have to use to make up that difference but also there's a debt service reserve fund that will be in place as well that we could tap into with in the event of a shortfall of funds and we wouldn't have to go back out to the public free no
 In your 18 years, have you had to go back out to the public for things of that nature? No, no. And the answer to that question is no as well.
 As we as we issue bonds, whether it's here or when I was in Indianapolis, we have to go through kind of a credit check with different agencies. So we call them credit rating agencies. So they and they will evaluate the city finances and the repayment source that's used being used to repay these bonds. So similar to your credit score, the city has its own credit score as well. So here is double A.
 So, you know, that's a pretty strong credit rating, AAA being the highest. So, you know, we'll go through this process next month maybe, I think, with the credit and rate days before we actually go to the market to issue the bonds. And we anticipate, you know, a AA rating on these. Even though this is a new revenue source that has been brought back to the city, we feel it's pretty strong and we'll get a good credit rating on this.
 And not only does our double A rating help, because only the triple A's in Indianapolis and maybe Fishers, I think. I'm not sure about Fishers, but definitely Indianapolis. Last time. But with that and with the whole state.
 combination of everything we're doing that should add to the credibility or the safety of the whole process correct because we'll have to show the history of these revenues and how much it was accumulated annually uh and we we share that information with the origin agencies as well so that they they are comfortable and understand like this is a strong a strong repayment source
 thank you what mr news this bomb attorney has said regarding the 30 plus year history of the success of the um stadium the ballpark um that also adds to everything yeah definitely okay thank you any other comments yeah counselor warner uh yeah mr willis and and mr rampola maybe you can also make sure i want to make sure uh that i'm understanding this i think we just kind of
 covered this aspect in uh rdc a few weeks ago but in essence that area right now there's about eight million dollars in payroll and sales taxes that potentially could be captured but we're only allowed to capture the five correct correct so so even if there's an economic slowdown of 20 percent
 economic slowdown and those payroll taxes and sales taxes decreased by 20%. That's still $6 million, and we're still able to capture the $5 million.
 Correct. I would. So my name is Randy Rompolo. I'm serving as bond counsel. I'm an attorney with Barnes and Thornburg with offices of 201 South Main Street. You are absolutely correct that the revenue projections that the municipal advisor, Crow Horwath, worked with the Indiana Department of Revenue to go back once the tax was the professional sports convention development area tax revenues, that legislation was changed.
 And as part of this financing process, Crow with the Department of Revenue went back historically to see what the revenue collection would have been if that language had been in place. And they went back several years, I think to 2017 or 2016, and it approached nearly $8 million every year.
 And as you indicated, as other folks have indicated, the state, the city can only capture under the law $5 million. So you have that additional cushion. It should be noted as well that during COVID, when everything dropped,
 this revenue was still strong. It was just under 7 million. So even during COVID, when we had the economic crisis we had as a result of COVID, the revenues still would have been more than sufficient to cover the debt service on the bonds, because again, you can only collect $5 million. And as Kyle pointed out, the revenue that is being projected for the bonds is approximately at current market rates, about 3.6 to $3.8 million
 The lease and the resolution as indicated provide for $4,776,000, I believe. That's a maximum number. The $50 million is a maximum number. The maximum interest rate is a maximum number. We do all of these as maximums so that
 As we go through the approval process, and I should say also that the Redevelopment Commission and the Redevelopment Authority each took public action and the Redevelopment Commission held a public hearing on the lease containing these same terms.
 we do all of this with maximum numbers so that when we finally get to the time of the bond sale we're not having to go back through the approval process again because if we use 3.6 and it came in at 3.6 and one dollar we'd have to start all over again so we start out with maximums and then the lease has provisions in it that the maximum lease owner will be reduced to match the debt service after the time of the bond sale
 One last point. Yes. So at the 3.6, with that 8, we've actually got 220% coverage on the loan. And because of that cushion, that's what's letting us do the Morris money and potentially other projects, correct? Exactly. You would have that money as essentially pay-as-you-go expenses if you had other projects or reimbursing the Morris expenditures that you approved tonight, you would be able to reimburse those funds.
 I would add to that is another reason why we can have the tax back up. It's it shouldn't be viewed as a negative and I'm I strongly disagree with the speaker saying that it's a negative. It's a positive. It allows you to be able to sell these bonds at the city's credit rating, which currently is a double a credit rating.
 Kyle indicated we'll go through a rating process and hopefully the city will once again secure the AA rating on these bonds that allows the bonds to be sold at a lower interest cost. I've used this analogy and I think I've used it in front of the council before. If you're going to the bank and trying to get a loan on a mortgage or a car or whatever, you wouldn't hide your security. You wouldn't say, oh, I've got all this money here, but I'm not going to tell you I have it because I want to pay a higher rate of interest.
 You want to pay the lowest interest possible on your loan, and so you want to have the strongest credit going into that discussion with the loan officer. And the same is true here. You want to go into the bond market with the best credit you can provide. This tax backup is the best credit that the city of South Bend or any local municipality in Indiana can provide. And that's a very common financing technique that is used throughout the state by cities, towns, and counties to do these types of projects.
 So, yes, the revenue that is here, the $5 million limit, the $8 million that's
 collected or not collected but is could be collected if the state law allowed eight million dollars to be collected you have that cushion and then you also have the coverage between the actual debt service which we're projecting somewhere between 3.6 and 3.8 and the 5 million dollars before you would ever think about getting to a levy in addition to the reserve fund that kyle referenced
 so so the more cushions you show the better the rate that's for the city and for the products that we have so therefore you put it all out there which helps us to have the better rate absolutely not saying that you're going to utilize it all out there but it helps you to to go to the better right from that and if you if you didn't have all that cushion you legally couldn't use the tax levy backup mechanism that's one of the benefits of the
 state law is the way it's written, to provide the comfort to the taxpayers, knowing that the city couldn't go forward with this project, with this financing technique, unless it had that cushion. One last thing on that. I thought it was interesting that Mr. Berlin shared that not all the states have this. In Illinois, he said, he referenced that. And what really helped us to have that here in Indiana, that we could really offer this to our cities? Yes.
 I think, and others would know because I wasn't involved in the legislation, but the original legislation was applicable decades ago, I think, only to the city of Indianapolis and the professional sports teams they had there. And then it was expanded to other communities, including South Bend, Fort Wayne, and other communities that had professional sports teams.
 But it was, I think, viewed as a way to do, as Mr. Berlin indicated, allow for some of the funding that was collected locally to come back to the local communities to be able to provide these types of opportunities for funding projects that can't easily be funded. I'm glad you shared that because so many times in the past, when we first started, it seemed like Indianapolis was only thinking about what Indiana was only thinking about Indianapolis.
 And so this provided them to widen their view that there are others of us that live in the state of Indiana. And so it was great for them to know that. Thanks. Thank you. Any additional comments? Yeah. Poboleski Stadium and Four Winds is a gem of our community.
 and the number of people it brings. And I go out there a lot. I talk to people, it brings people from Chicago. It brings people from all over the region. People come down.
 I've met people from Arizona that are Cubs fans that travel to all the parks and have been here. And I'm going to still kind of it's important to people, the stadium, right? The passion that that the fans have. I know kids that they love the splash pad in the kid zone. I know a whole lot of people that love that park and love the stadium and love the team. And it's it is amazing.
 we should continue to support it it's you know it's it's too important to our city or our community and and to the people um not only here our residents but uh across the country absolutely yes i would just like to echo what council warner said um i'm a pastor and one of the greatest uh greatest gifts i've been able to give our kids to our church is bringing them to
 Four Winds Stadium for the 23 years I've been pastoring and To expose children to that. I have a nephew who was a baseball player at st Joe who it's going to Notre Dame, but he loves coming to the four winds stadium because I
 It really, especially when the kids were in the projects next door, for those kids to come across the street and to experience a world-class baseball stadium, and they could just walk across the street or come across the city. It's important. It's important to our city, again, to have things for our young people, to have people in our community to go to. And the 401 stadium is something that,
 is a gem in our city and people look forward to being there. I had some people come from out of town and they were amazed that South Bend had a facility that well. And then with them winning a championship and all of those great things that have happened, it makes 4-1 Stadium something we should be very proud of and support. Thank you, Councilor Tomas Morgan.
 Thank you, President McBride. As Mr. Aaron Perry said, this is indeed a great night for South Bend. I mean, it's just really hard to sit up here and contain myself. There is just so much excitement for our city with the expansion of the Morris and Four Winds and both projects.
 As I said previously, investments in our community and for the future of our city for generations to come. So I just couldn't be prouder to support this project and investments that we've committed in the past.
 And also to four wins. So I love the fact that we're hearing both these bills tonight and what it says about our city, South Bend, and where we're going. Thank you. Thank you. Counselor Goodenroth. Yes. I'd like to thank you for bringing that to us tonight, especially about the surety bonds.
 I also would like for everyone to know that if it hadn't been for Colvin Lester's statement during the time of COVID, none of the high schools could have had a graduation, which was very important to the children.
 And these schools got together and they went to the stadium, to the baseball field, and that's where they had their graduations at. Every school had a chance to go because we were not allowed to be closed in during the time of COVID-19.
 So each high school had their own graduation. And I'm thankful. So I think we should support this. We're living in a time now that we don't know what's yet to come about, what still could happen. COVID is still not dead. We do not know when we will need to do this again. So in order to be able to keep it, I think we should keep it up and we should move forward. Thank you.
 Dr. Davis? As you heard from my very first questions and Mr. Berlin, my dream is that we have a triple A team here. And so.
 we're right next to chicago so we should get everything that they have as close as we can so i think this is as a part i understand why you can't answer the question right now but i just had to put it on the record for you and so because that's really where i like to see this team go is to have a triple a and um i think south bend deserves it and i think we need to move in that direction so i'm gonna keep asking you
 hey thank you i just would like to add that you know uh being on council since 2018 one of my uh first babies that i was appointed to was for being on the uh parks committee and being a part of um the stadium and the zoo and the morris and century center and all those good things that we have going on in south bend is continuing to grow and continuing to bring uh people together
 And I know in 2011, they talked about South Bend being a dead city. Now everywhere you go, it is alive and well and flourishing with our different venues that we have. So it is exciting times. And I'm just looking forward to tomorrow for the opening night game. I will be there. And I hope that you all come and enjoy as well. I see we have Councilor Bolton-Simpson here.
 Before I go to you, I see Councilor White. So, yes. Well, it's one thing about being on the end that all of the comments that one would have made have been made. I just want to echo and to support those comments. But I really want to recognize the individuals.
 and former council members who worked with our state representatives and senators to say it's time for South Bend to capture those funds and the work and the time and commitment that they put forward. We're now at this point that we're looking at having those funds when previously we did not have them.
 So again, I think we need to recognize also everyone that were part of that council at that time, but most importantly, the individuals that said, Les, it's time for South Bend. And because it's time for South Bend, we're seeing the work that's being done with the Moors, with the Four Winds, and we expect much more. So again, I just want to recognize that and to say that
 But it's time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Ms. Beth was one of those persons. She did that. She told me. Can you hear me, counselor? Yes. Yes. Yes, I can. I was just waiting. I just want to say, you know, right now I'm in another city and I'm looking around and I'm seeing people.
 What they have and I am and I was thinking finally that we in South Bend, we're going to have the same things. The Boldens are going to have a family reunion. The first one since the pandemic. This will be one of the places that the family will meet.
 And so this promotes family get togethers and this is just healthy. And so I am in favor and favor of this. And, you know, even back to former Mayor Roger Parent, even bringing the Kovalevsky stating it was a fight worth well worth it. Very excited. Thank you, Counselor Vice President Nieskowski.
 Thank you, President McBride. I would like to echo everything I've heard since I'm the last person here to make a statement, but wonderful statements from my colleagues. This is a very exciting time for South Bend when you're looking at both of these projects that were brought before us in one evening. And the stadium, it does have a tremendous economic impact. It does bring families together and it's going to be a world class stadium.
 So I'm excited about this. I'm excited to support it, along with all of my colleagues, as I've heard here previously. I love the presentation as well. And I can't wait to see the changes. So thank you. Thank you. With that being said, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 24-10. I'd like to move to adoption. Second. Been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Councilmember Wade. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 24-10 has been adopted.
 French lamb. President McBride, can we hear Resolution 24-11 and 24-12 together for purpose of public hearing only? There's been a motion and it's been moved to hear it. Second. Second. I still need to take a roll. Or do I need to take a roll? Yes. Lerato, can you call the roll to hear Resolution 24-11 and 24-12? Yes. Together. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Yes.
 Aye. Councilmember Wade. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Nieskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Petition. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity, offices on the 14th floor of this building. Bill. Eric, excuse me. Committee report.
 Oh, she didn't read the bill. Eric, I'm way ahead and I didn't get a committee report. Thank you. Did you read resolution 24-11? Resolution 24-11, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 2803 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619, and 2920,
 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Steel Warehouse Company, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Oh, we're reading them together. That was a long reading, Clerk Toronto. Clerk Toronto, will you please give 2412 a reading?
 Bill 2412, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 2803.
 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619, and 2920 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a six-year real property tax abatement for steel warehouse company LLC. Thank you. Now the committee report from Community Investment. Yes, President McBride. Both Resolution 2411 and Resolution 2412 –
 come to the full council with unanimous favorable recommendations. Thank you. And thank you for your patience, Mr. Lehrman. Thank you. Mr. Glavich? Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity. Office is on the 14th floor of this building. We'll be considering two resolutions. Both are declaratory resolutions. One is for a real property. Okay.
 real property tax abatement and the others for a personal property tax abatement. Steel Warehouse is a longstanding South Bend-based company founded in 1947 by the Lermons and have continued to commit and invest in South Bend. They are getting ready to take on a $14 million investment and expand the production capacity
 capabilities of their campus at 2722 Tucker Drive. They'll be installing a new production line valued at over $3.5 million, excuse me, at over $9 million, and they'll be building a brand new building to house this line at over $3.5 million. They are
 you know, committed to invest over $14 million in this project. The employment impact of this work, they will retain not only the 21 workers that are currently on the line that this equipment will replace, but then they are also committing to an additional 11 full-time employees within the next few years after this line gets up and running. As I mentioned, there's two abatements that you're considering. The personal property is for the equipment.
 These are just estimates, but over the five years, we estimate that we would abate over $550,000 in taxes while they pay $250,000. When you look past the terms of the abatement, we'd be another half million dollars that Steel Warehouse would pay in personal property taxes on this equipment. Looking specific to the parcels that are impacted by this abatement.
 just these two parcels, which only make up a small portion of the
 steel warehouse campus after the investment we'd be looking at a hundred thousand dollars in annual tax revenue from just this project about 80 about seventy thousand dollars more than what they currently bring in um this would be for a six-year abatement which is what's the petitioner would qualify for uh mr lerman is here to answer any questions you might have and i am as well thank you thank you at this time i will ask if there are any
 Is there anything additional you would like to ask, Mr. Nerman? I've heard a lot about investment in sports-related and entertainment-related matters here in South Bend.
 This is industrial. This is a different level of investment. It's designed to keep the community economically strong, offer our young people an opportunity to continue to live in South Bend with decent wages and decent areas of expertise.
 both at the low end and at the high end the particular investment we're talking about we hope will not only offer additional employment but will offer more expert employment of more skills involved and which are potentially higher uh wages uh more supervision which again pays at a greater level and we see it as a excellent opportunity for our community we know that
 Economists will tell us that the multiplier effect of investment like this is normally three to one. If you take a investment here of $14 million,
 in the building number one and the equipment that the building will house we're talking about probably an economic impact of over 42 million dollars not all that it's going to come from south bend but our hope is that with this kind of opportunity this kind of investment in south bend we will get the kind of infrastructure locally here that will support this so um i'll answer any questions they also have here i'd like to introduce mr parsons randy could you come up randy is a
 not only a resident of South Bend, he's almost a member of the family in many ways. And he's the one who runs our northern operations. So, Randy, why don't you explain? Yeah, Brittany Parsons, 61450 Myrtle Road, South Bend, Indiana. And I'm the general manager for Steel Warehouse Company for many of our sites in the north. And we're super excited about this project. And thank you all for your support.
 Thank you. At this time, colleagues, are there any questions of the petitioners? Yes. Dr. Davis?
 You shared earlier today that you could have built this. You were thinking about building this over near the Chicago area, Glenburn, something right in the area. But you decided to build it here. Could you again share your rationale why you chose to put it right here in South Bend to expand it here? First over in that area, which a lot of people are moving in that area. But you did here and you just mentioned that.
 potential jobs for the young people here? How do they learn about those and what can they do? Two questions. Some of the main considerations why we decided
 to build it here in South Bend as opposed to the area around Burns Harbor Portage. Those communities around there where the steel mills are located because we felt that the economic advantages of being there were outweighed by what we have here in South Bend in terms of skilled labor, in terms of an excellent maintenance department in our community, in our company,
 the experience that we have in dealing with complex machinery, and particularly the fact that this is a replacement
 of an existing line that simply offers a lot more in the way of advanced technology, which we believe will lead to being much more competitive and a greater ability to add additional business for our community. So we think it's well worth the sacrifice. We don't think it's a sacrifice actually, but we believe it's a sound business decision, even though there are costs that we will incur by being here as opposed to Burns Harbor. Thank you. And then the second one.
 Yeah. You know, so how can young people learn about the company? And, you know, I think the first place to start is with our website. You know, we're we're hiring people now. So we have openings available both at our campus at Tucker Drive and also over here on Riverside Drive. We have a facility where we have some openings right now. And, you know, I think the other thing to point out is, you know,
 The future of the jobs are higher level jobs. They're electricians, they're maintenance people, and we've realized that we have to help train people. So we have an apprenticeship program where people can start from the ground level, and we'll work with those folks to learn the trades, and so that we have them available for the future. And, you know, so this equipment is very sophisticated.
 And it takes a lot of brainpower, let's say, to manage this equipment. It's not low skilled. And so it's in our best interest to hire and train people and get them to that next level on skills. So that's important to us.
 i appreciate you taking the time to answer both of those questions and i thank you for investing in south bend when you could have moved over to sister cities but you came here and uh thank you for the information regarding how to become a part of your organization through employment thank you thank you is there anyone else yes
 I'd like to say thank you for realizing that here in South Bend or in the state of Indiana, the two words I really like was skilled labor. Thank you. Okay. If not, I will turn now to the public to see if there's anyone wishing to speak in favor of resolution 2411 or resolution 2412. I have a Suquism online wishing to speak in favor of the bill.
 Yes. Please, Sue, unmute yourself. State your name and address for the record. Thank you. Sue Kessum, 4022 Kennedy Drive. I wanted to point out something many of you may not know, and that is that steel warehouse leveling is exceptional. Being able to level one inch thick steel is not done anywhere else. We are very fortunate to have this engineering technology in South Bend.
 I'd also like to point out that Steel Warehouse offers pay above most South Bend companies with great benefits and this includes the downtown medical clinic that's also shared with South Bend City employees. That's just an incredible added benefit to not only Steel Warehouse but the people who work for the City of South Bend.
 And the community support. They have the Ice House, which has given a lot of great sports activity to the community with hockey. They have something called Steel Warehouse Cares. And having been the chairperson of Steel Warehouse Cares, I got to see personally how the Lerman family put up money so that...
 employees could donate to their charities that they are supporting in South Bend. That was just incredibly generous. And I know that the Lerman family personally outside of Steel Warehouse has been very, very generous to contributing to different community initiatives. And I really appreciate that and thank them for that.
 And congratulations on their North Carolina plant. They're expanding and growing, and it's always good to see a South Bend company that is economically healthy and doing well. So kudos to Steel Warehouse and the Lerman family for making such great contributions. Thank you. Thank you so much. Dr. Rado, you see anyone else?
 I do not see anyone online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition to Resolution 2411? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Thank you. Counsel, what's your pleasure? Move for adoption.
 SECOND SECOND BE MOVED IN SECOND ROLE PLEASE FOR THEM SUPPORT YES ADOPTION FOR THE 24 11. 24 11. RAISE THAT MOVE FOR ADOPTION FOR TWO TWO TO FOUR ELEVEN YES SECOND IT'S BEEN A MOTION AND A SECOND FOR RESOLUTION 24-11 CLERK TO ADO THE ROLE PLEASE COUNCIL MEMBER BOWDEN SIMPSON AYE COUNCIL MEMBER WARNER
 Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2411 has been adopted. I motion to adopt 2412. Second. Second. Second motion. Been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll please.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden Simpson. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. 24, Resolution 2412 has been adopted. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you very much.
 There are no bills on first reading. I'll turn to counsel for any unfinished business related to counsel. Yes. Dr. Davis. I'd just like to, I'd like to, again, thank our clerk for preparing the resolutions, which you, President McBride, Councilman Pastor Lee, and I intended to, we got in the funeral of Superintendent Sam Diggins.
 He was a great asset to us in the 6th District and throughout this whole community when we're daily miss him.
 And I'd like to thank the clerk's office also for helping us prepare the resolution, which President McBride and I attended yesterday to dedicate the New Jerusalem Baptist Church. The mayor and his staff and chief and many others, his wife, were there, too. So it was a great day. So it was a great sad weekend. Yet at the same time, it was a great weekend to celebrate. So thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, is there any new business?
 I do have something, President McBride. Thank you, Vice President Nieskowski. Thank you so much. I was appointed to the Solid Waste Management District Board. I think I've been there five years now. And I've been working with them on tires. Tires is a big issue. So they have created a tire amnesty day program.
 So all the residents that have tires are only going to have six passenger tires per vehicle, but you can take them to the Kerr. It's 828 West Kerr Street. That's where you can take paint TVs. It's their hazardous waste facility. So it's going to be on Saturday, April 27th from eight to noon.
 And it's a tire amnesty day. So residents, I just want to I'll be working with Eric Horvath that actually to see to what we can do to get this out more to encourage people instead of dumping these tires in the alley. Why don't we just dump the solid waste?
 a facility on this Tire Amnesty Day. So I'm really excited to be working with them. And if you guys have any questions or you want the flyer, please let me know and I'll get it out to you. Please send it to counsel in the clerk's office. That'd be great. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, we will turn to the privilege of the floor. At this time, you may come for the privilege of the floor.
 An individual who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. There is a three minute time limit. The maximum for this portion shall be 30 minutes. You cannot address topics that were discussed on tonight's agenda, and the president may assign topics to the clerk's office or to the appropriate council member for the adequate response. Please state your name and address for the record.
 Yes, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So I just wanted to start with an event that happened before the meeting started today. At about 7.02 p.m. today, the sergeant of arms that's here right here in the red shirt actually put his hands on me and shoved me as I was setting up my camera.
 So if possible, I was wondering if someone could actually, normally there's someone from the police department here, if someone would be able to take a report that I would like to file a battery charge. Because at no point should a police officer or any person put their hands on another individual, let alone a resident who is simply attending a city council meeting. And while that's happening, I'd like to get into why I'm here for the privilege of the floor, please.
 I have emailed every single city council member in the mayor's office, and I have asked them to purchase my property for $275,000. Just as you have purchased Kelly's Pub, the South Bend Community School Corporation property, and made offers to private landowners on Old Cleveland Road. And I have not received a response from any of you.
 As you know, I speak for and represent many neighbors in my diverse community. Just last night on my walk through my neighborhood, I was stopped by a neighbor who asked me to represent him tonight because of his fear of representing himself in fear of retaliation. He asked if someone can fix the sidewalk, curb, and street on the southeast corner of College and Humboldt.
 I bring this concern of my neighbors and neighborhood before you today, asking my district representative, Ophelia Rogers, and the three at-large representatives to address this intersection. Other neighbors have also requested a stop sign be placed at this intersection, making it a four-way stop. We have turned this into engineering, but they have ignored our cries for help as well.
 One positive note, Councilman Oliver Davis did walk my crime scene with me after the most shot recent shots fired event. And for that, I appreciate him and his bravery. The other eight of you remain silent as shots and crime terrorize my street in public records requests.
 AR 24479, I requested a list of real property that the City of South Bend has made offers to buy in the last year, including the offer to a property owner dated March 6 on Old Cleveland Road for $275,000. Here is the response I received. There is no record that details the information you have requested because the City does not keep a list of properties that has made offers to buy. As such, to satisfy your request, a record would have to be created.
 How do you not keep a request of properties you try to buy? And I guess can someone meet me about this or keep this man here while someone comes to take a report? I'd like to respond to please.
 I'd like to say, Logan, since I am your representative, no one has contacted me about curbs or sidewalks, nor no stop sign. So I don't know who you sent the request to or who did it, but it has not come to me. OK, so it was engineering. They told us we had to turn it into engineering. So I was asking tonight. I wasn't.
 blaming that for you. This is my first request to you guys for curbs and stop signs. I'm glad you clarified that. I was going to ask if you would follow the proper chain because addressing us publicly to ask us, we're not going to write that or that leaves a trail. So if you would email the council or if you did, like, I don't know what relationship you, um,
 or the the communication that you have with dr davis but if you were contact your direct uh representative i appreciate you making that statement that this was your first time but there is a um that you contacted her about this issue i think that's what you just said right
 There was an email that was sent to all of us. And so, but since we're, I'm not his representative, I would not respond. But I did follow up. And I appreciate that. But what I guess what I'm trying to say is that I'm glad you said that you had not, that you reached out to engineering because there is a channel that you would go through. But I, when I get your request, I don't respond because I'm not your representative, not in now, if one of the council, uh,
 would not respond, you're welcome to, like when we first met, that you can always reach out to me as president. But my initial thing is you have district representatives or a large representative, so I wouldn't respond. But I also believe that you may have
 in some instances, if you file a tort claim, then counsel in certain instances will not respond to you also. So there are some things that we may respond and we may not respond to, but that would be turned over then to our counsel or to the legal counsel from that regard. So I just want, since we're having this dialogue, to make sure we all have an understanding. Yes, absolutely. If I may, what I said in here was that,
 as I called through one contact, they told us that we had a contact engineering and we went through those channels is what they told us the proper channels. And then now we're going to the next channel and I'm asking my four representatives for help to help us. Absolutely. So that, that, I think it wasn't a combination. It was asking for help. No, no, no. I don't believe it was what, what I was saying is for the record, I know publicly we're now talking, but what
 For me, if I was your representative, it would be better for me if I had a paper trail that you email me. And then that way I could forward it or follow up or tomorrow to look at that information and then follow up to the information. So I'm just saying and I'm not and you could respond or follow up with your counsel the way that you would.
 would like to but this what i would tell if someone was in my district that if you email me or leave me a voicemail as best that i would remember to follow up with you and not in the public forum in in all fairness i sent me maybe
 I don't want to say 10, but maybe six emails to Ms. Rogers, and I've not received a response yet on those. But that was not my objective to air that out here. Okay, no, we're okay. We'll follow up. That was not my objective. I appreciate that. We'll follow up. Okay.
 Okay. I would also add, I think they got close to 1,000 sidewalk requests. There is. And the backlog is a few years on that. Yeah, there actually are. Because I get lots and lots of that. We all do. I don't.
 Yeah, there are. I know that with the curbs and sidewalks, there is a priority for whether if you're a senior or disabled. And then there's a list of who requested it first. And even with mine, I know when I got on in 2018, they were still working on 2016. And I know now with my list of curbs and sidewalks.
 Although we're in 2024, they're still working on 2022 and 2023 for mine. So people who've asked now are on a waiting list and can't even get looked at until next year because of, and that's just in the third district I can speak to.
 unless there is a elderly or disabled that need a wheelchair or things of that nature. So I don't know and can follow up, I'm sure, with Dr. Davis of what if I don't know if that was curbs and sidewalks you looked at or no.
 He sent out an email regarding the shots and all the cars and everything else there. And so, therefore, I went out on Friday evening, this past Friday evening, got over to his house, met with his wife and them and the cat. And we spent a while walking up and down just to see exactly where he said the shots are coming from and...
 It was out there. It was amazing because we had a lot of kids from Dickinson that were coming all around there. So there's a lot of children in the neighborhood who I work with on a regular basis. So I was just concerned, one, from the council role I have, and then two, when you mentioned that, I service the children. So I wanted to see because many of the kids talk to me about the same situation. So that's one of the reasons why, given the two roles that I have, I wanted to go over. So that's what I went out just a couple of days ago.
 Okay, thank you. So I have a question for Dr. Davis. So you're saying he sent you the email? He sent all of us the email. I don't have it. It was on the CC Council email, whatever that...
 even my computer has not been working right for about three weeks i didn't took it up but but no i did not get it i understand there's an email no listen i did not get it let's move on we will follow up please we can share it and we could move on okay um is there anything else any other you see anyone in the public virtual wishing to speak at the privilege of the floor
 I do not see anyone in person or in the public that's wishing to speak on privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that being said, have a good night. Night, everybody. Good night, everyone.