are we ready well i hope so good evening i would like to call monday april 11 2022 common council meeting to order or jones i believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves in the virtual audience. If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are also in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input again, please insert your name and address in the chat and you'll be called on during the relevant time for public input.
 You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert again the following into the chat your name and your address and the council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks.
 Thank you. Thank you. Any disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. At this time, we would like to welcome Pastor Gilbert Washington of St. Paul Bethel Missionary Baptist Church for the invocation. Welcome. Thank you so very much. I am proud and privileged to be here with all of you.
 Let us pray. We thank you, our God. We thank you for being our guide. We thank you for this assembly, for this meeting. We thank you for guiding our feet and guarding our hearts. Oh, Lord, we thank you for the privilege of our liberties, allowing us to serve, to serve your people, to lift them, to love them, to embrace them, to protect them, to provide a better quality of life
 for all who live here in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Be with the council tonight. Allow that they may serve you by serving your people. Allow, oh God, that we may always give you honor and glory. Allow that we may serve with distinction and with integrity. For we too are your people, the sheep of your pasture.
 We ask, we pray, and we believe in and through thy name. And in thy name, we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you so very much. At this time, we will stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. To the flag of the United States of America, a nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Councilmember Davis. Henry's here. Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Present. Councilmember Wax. Present. Councilmember White. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President Neskoski. Present. President McBride. Present. Nine present. Thank you. There are no subcommittee minutes today.
 At this time, we will have a special resolution recognizing April 2022 commemorating March, commemorating as Child Abuse Prevention Month. We have sponsor Lori Hammond and also Henry Davis. Thank you, President McBride. This special resolution is a collaborative effort by a number of people.
 As April has been designated as Child Abuse Prevention Month, this resolution, despite its title, goes beyond the simple recognition of Child Abuse Prevention Month. As more agencies and organizations expressed their support for the resolution, more and more information was gathered about child abuse.
 And with this, the unanimous opinion of all agencies and organizations is that it requires community-wide collaboration, the explicit recognition that ACEs are common, and their long-term impact is felt by entire communities, and the understanding that individual organizations will require governmental support in order to fully protect children from child abuse.
 The list of the agencies and organizations supporting this resolution is lengthy, but I would still like to read it. Adoptions of Indiana, Annam Cara Counseling, Beacon Resource Center, Bowen Center, Geminis Early Learning Connections, Amani Unidad, sorry.
 Mentoring Moments LLC, Oaklawn, Patricia Reynolds from South Bend Community School Corp, Prevent Child Abuse St. Joe County, Purdue Extension Robinson Community Learning Center, SCAN, Shaw Center for Children and Families, the St. Joseph County Cares Consortium members and friends, St. Joe County Public Library, St. Joe Regional Medical Center,
 Lactation Consultants, St. Margaret's House, Take 10, the Casey Center, the Early Childhood Services Programs of Beacon Health Systems, St. Joe County WIC Program, PNCC, Paranatal Care Coordinating Programs, The Babe Store,
 North Central Indiana Sickle Cell Programs, United Health Services, United Way of St. Joe County, Youth Services Bureau of St. Joe County, and the YWCA of North Central Indiana. It's a pretty impressive list of support. With that, I would like to read through the resolution. Whereas in federal fiscal year 2020,
 3.9 million reports nationwide and an estimated 216,000 reports in Indiana were made to child protective services. And whereas child abuse and neglect are serious problems affecting every segment of our community, and finding solutions requires input and action from everyone.
 And whereas effective child abuse prevention activities succeed because of the partnership created between child welfare professionals, education, health, community, and faith-based organizations, businesses, law enforcement agencies, and families. And whereas our children are our most valuable resource and will shape the future of the city of South Bend, St. Joseph County, and the state of Indiana.
 And whereas the harms that stem from child abuse and neglect are one small portion of the harms that arise from adverse childhood experiences or ACEs, which are childhood experiences that can have long-term impacts on physical, mental, and behavioral health. And whereas approximately 66% of St. Joseph County adults have at least one adverse childhood experience.
 And whereas the incidence and impact of ACEs are mediated by protective factors, which come from the lived environment and safe, stable nurturing relationships, and whereas strengthening protective factors to protect child abuse, to prevent child abuse, and ACEs requires a focused community-wide effort to strengthen economic supports to families,
 promote healthy social norms, ensure a strong start for children, teach social skills to children and parents, connect youth to caring adults and activities, and intervene to lessen the immediate and long-term harms of ACEs. And whereas systems of ACEs
 Prevention requires community-wide collaboration. The explicit recognition that ACEs are common and their long-term impact is felt by entire communities, and the understanding that individual organizations will require governmental support in order to fully protect children from ACEs. And whereas reduction in child abuse is a direct result of...
 Reduction in child abuse is a direct result of improved parental skills. Parents learn from in-home visiting programs how to manage their anger, how to discipline their children effectively and without violence, and how to ask for help and support when they need it and learn.
 Yes, the Youth Service Bureau's Young Moms Sufficiency Program is one such unique program serving the young, at-risk, low-income mothers of South Bend, excuse me, and San Jose County, and whereas a multitude of organizations with child advocacy programming, admirably,
 uh serve the south bend in st joseph county and whereas the fssa 211 system serves as a valuable resource for families and service providers within south bend and st joseph's areas central to the county areas whereas we acknowledge that we must work together as a community to increase awareness about child abuse and contribute to promote
 the social and emotional well-being of children and families in a safe, stable, and nurturing environment, and whereas prevention remains the best defense for our children and families. Now, therefore, being resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1, the Common Council of the City of South Bend recognizes and proclaims April 2022
 excuse me as national child abuse prevention month section two the common council also recognizes appreciates the efforts of all of the community service agencies who dictate their lives dedicate their lives to the task of improving the quality of life for all children families section three the common council urges all residents to similarly dedicate themselves to the future of this community section four this resolution shall become effective upon the date of passage
 Thank you so much for the presentation by the sponsors. At this time, I would yield and ask the council, are there any comments? I would just like to thank the sponsors for bringing forth this special resolution in honor of child abuse and prevention month. Thank you. Any other comments? Councillor Lee? I would just like to say that thank you to the sponsors for bringing this bill, this resolution.
 before us, abuses is very prevalent in our community. And any way that we can acknowledge it and help to serve those individuals who were part of it is what we should do. So again, awareness helps to bring about the change that needs to happen. And so many of our young people are suffering from the various forms of abuse.
 And it's a very important issue that needs to be addressed in St. Joe County and South Bend. Thank you. Thank you. Councilor Wax. I'm just going to thank the sponsors for putting this together and bringing this to everybody's attention and to keep the focus on addressing this important issue. So thank you. Thank you.
 counselor davis you had additional comments i think charlie's getting ready to say something i can wait council warner yeah i just uh wanted to thank the sponsors and thank the service organizations uh that were listed the ysb uh ywca the casey center those are all organizations that are critical in our community and near and dear to my heart and thank them for all the work they do
 It is very vital and crucial, and you have our support. And I know YSB has Over the Edge coming in October, and I'm going to sign up, and I'm going to try to see how many council people I can get here to go Over the Edge to raise money for you, Service Bureau. Sign me up. Bungee jumping?
 No, you're, you're a pal. They also have, if I may interject, there is a roof set that is coming up in June, and that is to raise money for child abuse prevention. The Casey Center has their chair auction that will be coming up in May.
 So these organizations are reaching out to the community, asking for support, asking for some financial assistance. And I would ask that anyone that is able to partake in those. Thank you. Councillor Davis. Sure. You know, I am as I was reading that my mind was, you know, working really fast.
 Not even the language, but one name comes to my memory when we get to talking about child abuse. And I pass by the house on a regular basis and I can't get it out of my head. 2000 was a 2011 Tramiel Sturgis. I don't know if anyone remembers that. It was a young boy. I think he went to Madison Elementary School. His dad killed him, beat him to death. And so there was was there signs that showed there was something wrong going over there? Absolutely.
 Were they able to get over there quick enough to prevent what ultimately happened to that young boy? No. I think that there were some laws and some things that really prevented that from happening in a timely fashion. But I just wanted to bring his name up because that one, that hurt. That one hurt. I didn't know him. He was, they lived in the district. They actually were right across the street from Miss Adeline's Barbershop on West Washington Street.
 And she even talked about the young boy coming over there with his family, his brothers and sisters, and how they would come over there and buy candy because she sells candy out of a barbershop. And just talking about how they were dressed, you know, the level of treatment that they were or were not getting. You know, everybody, hindsight is always 20-20, right? So, you know, you can't fault anybody for not really understanding what's going on.
 But I think the signs were there for him. And, you know, his dad just. Well, thank you. I appreciate you bringing that. Could you reach out to the public also? After my comments, I definitely will. So thank you for bringing that to our memory and remembering his life. And I know it's dear to all of us and very honored to support. Victoria, do you see anyone in the audience wishing to speak?
 in favor of this resolution or if there anyone here in our audience who would like to speak in favor of the resolution please come to the podium and state your name and address
 good evening christina mcgovern um my address is five through and five three one three two bracken fern drive south bend indiana um i'm with the youth service bureau of st joseph county and also the st joseph county uh chapter of child abuse prevention so i thank you to lori and to councilman davis for this resolution and i think um all of you really have stated already that
 Shining a light on child abuse and talking about it is one of the biggest things that we can do. All of us, elected officials, everyday citizens, everyone. So if we are all part of this and working together and trying to do what we can to support families in our community so that nothing, no child suffers any kind of abuse. So we can all play a role and we can all work together and we really appreciate this. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for your comments.
 There is no one from the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak on this. Thank you so much. By acclamation, I would ask all counsel for a motion for passage. So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carries.
 At this time, we will have an update and a report from city offices. We have Jordan Gathers, Deputy Chief of Staff. You please come up for your presentation. Thank you for being here. And if you could state your name and address for the record. Thank you, President McBride. Jordan Gathers, Deputy Chief of Staff with offices on the 14th floor of this building. I shared, I did...
 Yeah, I did share a presentation with you guys in regards to the update, so I wanted to make sure and have that up so we can all follow together here. Thank you so much.
 Awesome, awesome, thank you. So today I'm here before you to present an update on homelessness here. We know a lot of work has gone into addressing our most vulnerable population, and so, but I appreciate everyone's input and suggestions on how to do things better. Quite a few meetings have taken place, so I'd be remiss not to thank everyone who's been a part of those conversations. I'm just really excited to be able
 and and and work working towards solutions together. So next slide please. So here here we have a point in time, a homeless count and C list which stands for coordinated entry and the coordinator entry is a tool that is used to assess and prioritize individuals for housing and services. It also helps communities prioritize assistance based on vulnerability.
 and severity of services and needs. So this is basically to ensure that people who need assistance can receive it in a timely manner. And their guiding principles refers to basically access
 assessment, prioritizing, and referral. So when we look at the state of Indiana here, we have different regions across our state. And in 2019 and 20, we saw the totals of 413 and 516 homeless individuals that were accounted for.
 And so as as you continue to look at the the the next few bullet points here, you'll see that in that count that last year we we dropped significantly. And so I will. I will make an important note to that number and that that drop in the sense of that there was there was a few errors within the States report compounded by the pandemic and so.
 We will say that 2020 is probably that 516 number is probably more of an accurate number if you will, but happy to see that we are seeing a trend going down as far as last year and currently we sit at 233 on the coordinated entry list. Next slide, please.
 So the last time I was before you, before the council, I gave an update kind of on the mayor's implementation group, which convened in August of 2020 until the end of that year in which we put together a strong, robust, powerful network of peers that worked. As you can see, we had some elected officials, we had a few council members,
 here as well on those on those 8 AM morning calls going into identifying and implementing or identifying and implementing strategies for both short term and longer term strategies as it relates to our unhoused population and also building a city that provides support and opportunity for all who call South Bend home.
 And within this implementation group, we felt that it was best to break it into subcommittees, which you'll see here at the bottom of the slide. We had health and sanitation, we had weather amnesty, and then we also had pernative supportive housing. These three subcommittees were crucial and critical as we continue to be a little bit more focused
 and more specific in the interest of the group. We had about 20 to 40, I would say, it would vary each meeting of individuals within the implementation group. But the subcommittee groups were much shorter, probably around 10, 10 to 15 for each subcommittee. Next slide, please.
 So within the culmination of the subcommittees and the mayor's implementation group, we came together to address homelessness and to recognize the situation. This situation has been years in the making. We've also understood and quickly came to realize that it cannot be solved overnight. And so we had a few of the
 subcommittees come up with recommendations for for the mayor, for for community, for the city on how we would like to move forward and addressing our our unsheltered individuals and neighbors. So the first sub the first subcommittee here, health and sanitation. As you can see,
 We had some laundry services as well as some port-a-johns or porter potties, if you will, downtown, century downtown located. And to my knowledge, and I believe that this was run...
 And with partnership in burdens laundry that this is still taking place on Wednesdays, we've also developed a partnership with Transpo to provide free and affordable transportation and then also being able to utilize some of our willing service providers without our city. Next slide please.
 As it relates to the weather amnesty and housing subcommittee, we continue operations of weather amnesty, which a lot of the members were very adamant about. And so we continue that. We extended the support of the Moteles for Now program, as well as utilizing buildings to house individuals.
 you know, and making sure that we were very intentional about understanding that most of these things are just the tip of the iceberg. The needs are significant, but we understand that smart planning and execution will continue to emerge. Some of our responses here after even during the pandemic and after. Next slide, please.
 So the last subcommittee we had, Permanent Supportive Housing, which the members came to expand some of the city's permanent supportive housing developments. They've also recommended to develop a housing trust fund to create a homeless coordinator position and then also support an education and advocacy campaign. Next slide, please.
 So within what I when I just mentioned that we wanted to create a homeless, you know, a homeless coordinator position, we were able to do so and we were able to do so last year. This happened. This happened. We wanted to hire one person, but we ended up hiring two two individuals and Mannix and Betsy Benito who have been who've done a really good job
 really good job and putting together these recommendations and putting them into motion. And so here are some of the. Here are some of the deliverables that we were able to that we were able to come up with as it relates to their contract. These are not city employees, but they, but it was a 12 year contract that we that we were able to Commission and here are some of the.
 HERE ARE SOME OF THE DELIVERABLES HERE AS FAR AS COLLABORATING WITH VARIOUS GROUPS FOR THAT EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE DISPELLING SOME OF THE STEREOTYPES AND REIMAGINING THE NARRATIVE AS IT RELATES TO OUR HOMELESS POPULATION. IMPROVING UPON THE COORDINATED ENTRY PROCESS, WHICH THAT TOOL IS VERY COMPLICATED, BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY, WE'VE HAD A GREAT RUN AT TRYING TO MAKE IT MORE EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE.
 And then as well as research for funding opportunities related to operations and a development of prospective initiatives such as a low barrier shelter and the expiration of that. And then also drafting, more importantly, drafting a multi-year services plan to address some of these existing and planned services that our homeless individuals are experiencing. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 so i wanted to give everyone here on council in 2020 i i wanted to bring this back to the table as far as noting our cdbg and esg cv funding
 As you can see the total there, we wanted to make note that this does not include any of the reimbursed costs for COVID of COVID-19, quarantine motel, and other expenditures. But wanted to really make note of some of the items that were expended in that year. Next slide, please.
 Here we have a funding breakdown of the 2021 homeless implementation budget. That 650 number, we wanted to, these things are happening and are in progress and have happened. And so wanted to note whether amnesty, permanent supportive housing, leasing, as well as low barrier shelter scope,
 planning and preliminary design, as well as the homeless facilitators, the transfer bus passes, which for which which we have the dates there as well, and also still in denoting the countywide coordinator match as well, that that that's still in that that pot for the implementation budget. Next slide, please.
 So, so now we we get to 2022 and and we're we still have a line item for for these series of of initiatives, if you will, and recommendations and and making making note that that that most urban cores are contending with the increasing number of unhoused individuals, but this 650,000 total within implementation has been.
 you know, has been assigned and just wanted to again note that these are very important recommendations that we're moving forward on. Next slide, please.
 So here this slide is highlighting some of the supportive projects that we're working on. We were very intentional with the mayor's implementation group and County coordination and being and working at this together, making sure that we're not working in silos if you will, and so wanted to outline some of the projects that that have been in the works that are pending and that we're continuing to have.
 conversations on. So we have the expiration of a low barrier shelter. Those talks are still being had, but there has been conversations and potentially having a such site at Portage Manor.
 Next, you have the Behavioral Crisis Center. This is a project of a 23-hour assessment observation center, which would fall under the Memorial Hospital license and would be subject to all hospitals' accreditation recommendations and regulations. An advisory board was put together by Dr. Robert Einherz.
 which I sit on the board and also President McBride as well. And we're hoping to have more detailed plans come forth in the coming weeks as far as the next steps for that project.
 Next, we have YSB, which we're continuing to look at funding for that project and outline the details on that plan. And then as well as Center for the Homeless, the county has awarded them a million dollars for their renovation of their space.
 And and but it's contingent on a match, and so there has been a request from the city to match that that $1,000,000 for their for their for their renovations for their space. And so we will continue to have conversations with them in order to to accommodate that that request.
 I just wanted to make note here at the bottom that the CityBud includes 5.8 million of American Rescue Plan supported funds for county partnerships to address homelessness and mental health, which was mentioned in the Behavioral Crisis Center. So next steps.
 We're going to continue to work with permanent supportive housing. We're very excited about the opening of Hope Avenue homes, which would be dedicated to 22 units for individuals, which was hoping to open here in the spring of this year.
 We also were a part of the Indiana Institute for Center for Supportive Housing and Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority, which we were a proud, it was six teams across the state that were able to participate in a series of trainings and being able to be around other entities and other cities.
 and seeing how they address supportive housing for their populations. And so that application process is still pending, but we've applied for the tax credit portion of that and waiting to hear back. And currently we're in the 2022 Institute, which I was just me and a few other team members were just a part of in Bloomington.
 in another session and hoping to compete for funding for another project similar or a little bit more innovative than the one at Hope. So we're hoping to do more of a scatter site units, as you can see here, and hoping to kind of work towards that and have more updates here in the coming, in the middle of this
 We're continuing Motos for Now Partnership, as stated before, and then also the Low Barrier Shelter with the county. We want to continue that and continue conversations to move that forward, as well as finalizing the community educational campaign, which is really going to be important that we've contracted with J2 Marketing in that aspect to put together –
 a campaign that includes websites, that includes billboards, videos, just a way to be able to show the community truly what homelessness is and how to show our help and support moving forward.
 And lastly, we're looking to reconvene our implementation group to assist our city facilitators and their deliverables and making sure once their reports are complete that everyone has an opportunity to convey their suggestions and thoughts and continuing to get better in this effort. So with that, you know, I will say that...
 that this is a complex issue. And we've been having frequent conversations with partners and internally to move impactful solutions forward. And so I encourage you all to continue to join us on this journey, to navigate these uncertain times and to continue to build a city that provides support for all who call South Bend home.
 That concludes my my presentation and happy to take any questions that you might have. Thank you so much for your presentation and all of that information. At this time I would ask Council you get two questions at this time a piece and if there's any additional please send your questions directly to Mr. Gathers or to myself to make sure that we get it answered. I'll start down from the left. Counselor White, do you have any questions?
 No, just thank Mr. Gathers for the presentation and the summaries. I think it was very helpful to look back on those other questions.
 years in regards to from a financial perspective, but also looking towards the future and what it's going to take for our city to ensure that everyone has adequate shelter and that we're serving those most vulnerable within our community. So thank you for the report. I look forward to receiving the slides. Absolutely. Thank you, counselor, Tomas Morgan.
 I have no questions. I just want to thank you, Mr. Gathers, for your report and as well wanted to ask if you will be sharing the slides with us so that we could share with the public. Absolutely, will do. Thank you. Councilor Benicigowski. Thank you, Madam President. The only question, and thank you for the presentation. It was a very informative presentation. On the Epworth facility, the 23-hour facility, do you envision, so like when a
 if a police officer runs across an individual that needs help is that primarily what that facility would be used for and i seen you didn't have a dollar amount on there but is that the primary use for that facility yes so the oops so yeah so the epworth that that would be um we definitely it
 from the advisory board conversations, there has been talks about what the center will be filling, like the gaps that will be filled. And a lot, and one was that they would be from individuals that gets calls or 911 dispatch, that they would be able to utilize that new facility. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Giden, for the presentation and update. Welcome. Councilor Warner. Councilor Lee.
 Thank you, Mr. Gathers, for this information and seeing how we are moving the ball forward. I was on a lot of those aid and mourning calls and the group of individuals that he had to galvanize and work with, you did a great job of getting people broken out into groups and
 And getting results. My one question is the low barrier center that's they're thinking about Portage Manor. Can you give us any more information on that?
 So I I don't have any more information on that Councilman Lee but uh but knowing that it's still in the uh it's still in conversation on which site no site has been determined but I know that uh that there has been conversations around the Porter the Portage Manor site being one that could be viable um for for future discussions thank you Councilor Wax
 Thank you. Thank you for your presentation. Lots of helpful, valuable information. I was pleased to see that, at least based on the PIT numbers, the overall local homeless population has decreased 50% over the past few years, 20, 25% over the past year. What's your level of confidence in that number that it's a true reflection of a reduction in homelessness versus...
 perhaps less effective tracking? So I will say, you know, like there were a few, as noted, the state report was there were some errors.
 So as far as confidence in the numbers, we have to go by what's accounted for. And I will say that there is a population of unseen homelessness or homeless individuals who aren't accounted for. So that number could very well fluctuate, in which we saw the fluctuation over the years since 2019 and up until now.
 You know, I hopefully, you know, I will say I hopefully that those numbers continue to trend down. And when the next report comes out, we don't see a spike. But anecdotally, you spend a lot of work in this, a lot of time and effort in this. Anecdotally, are you seeing a reduction? Do you feel that that number make like it sits right to you?
 That reduced number. I will say that the 2020 number seems more viable as far as the higher number. And I will say, I think we should probably err on that side as opposed to hoping that it goes away because it's not going to go away. So I will say that from our research and from what we're seeing that a lot of the initiatives and a lot of the projects that we have going, that that number is decreasing, but we still have a lot of work to do.
 Okay, and to that end, I guess that leads me to my next question. I'll ask you the same question that I asked you last year.
 a lot of focus and I think wonderful work in assisting those that are homeless and a lot of attention being put into potential housing solutions either with partners or provided by the city one other than providing housing or making that connection to actual housing what efforts is the city doing to actually reduce homelessness rather than just assisting
 So I will say that the city we do not provide direct service to the homeless, but also but will say that we will do everything that we can to continue to provide a social social net network for for vulnerable population. So as you can, as noted on on the presentation, we have a very we had we we took on those recommendations from the community. From from the from the members of the home the mayor's implementation group.
 And I think it encompasses the work that we've all put together to address this very complex issue. So I will say that a lot of the deliverables and actions that we have in the works address the reduction and prevention of homelessness in the years to come. Great, I look forward to that. Thank you. Thank you. Councilor Hammond.
 Thank you, Mr. Cathers. As everyone knows, I spend a great deal of my time working in this wheelhouse of providing for homeless. We have now had, I think at last count, three studies done as to what are the best approaches for South Bend to address the homelessness. And in each of those studies, we have had three studies done. And I think at last count, three studies done as to
 It has identified a full-time, permanent homeless coordinator position. And when Anne Mannix was hired, she was actually doing research, not coordinating services. So I'm wondering why we are hesitating to fill a full-time, permanent position, as has been the recommendation now.
 in three different homelessness studies done in South Bend. The first two done under Mayor Pete. So that's a great question, Councilman Hammond. I will say that we have to we have we felt that the contract position was it was a great start and to be able to coordinate a lot of these efforts for and I and I think noted in the budget we had the countywide
 Countywide coordinator match to I believe there was conversations with the county and and but those those conversations are not off the table. I will say again that I mentioned in my presentation that homelessness will not be solved overnight, so I I'm happy to have those continue to have those conversations to push for a full time position so that so that we're all on the same page.
 Thank you. And secondly, around weather amnesty, I appreciate everything that the city does around cold temperatures, but there are an equal number of conditions and threats around heat. And I think not having a 12 month weather amnesty is,
 is not really addressing all of the concerns that are affecting this community. And it would be something that I would strongly recommend that the city sit down and have a serious conversation about. My next question, when will we get to see the report that Anne Mannix filed?
 so ann manix and betsy bonito they're working in tandem and it's still being under reviewed now um and but um as mentioned we're going to be we're going to be reconvening the mayor's implementation group and i'll be sure to send you an invite to to present their results and report i would like to read the report can i get a copy of that you meet at eight in the morning and i teach school so
 that's not really gonna happen. Absolutely. We'll we'll be sure to be committed to transparency and sharing that report with you and thank you and other members. Yeah, counselor Davis. Sure, I just have a comment and Jordan. I like you as a person as an individual. I appreciate the work that you do. You have done. I don't want you to take my comments personal because they're not aimed at you, but I'm not sure how this is going to work.
 When we are preparing for people that we can't even count because they just move around, right? And so there's like this presentation that you just made that suggests and supports the city is working at it. Well, more than two years ago, myself and my colleague to my left.
 Drafted, authored a resolution because Monroe Park, which is in the second district, was taken over by folks who were homeless and just kind of like just staying over in that area.
 Um, we not only have that, but we also have the transient population that comes in and out from the center, from the homeless, which is the second district as well. Then we talk about whole rescue mission, which is the second district as well. And so when I, when I'm listening to all of these things that are supposed to be happening, I'm not encouraged that anything is going to happen. The reason why is because we tried to have this conversation several years ago.
 And now we're still looking at the future and not anything on paper that's suggesting that there is an exact goal or there's an exact date for these things to take off. I find the timing of it very suspect. I am going to say it. Next year we file for reelection if we desire to run for office again. And so I have I'm going to be very critical of this because we try to help.
 We try to offer our support and somehow some other people were chosen to participate on these boards. Great. I haven't heard anything since. This is the first time again. Not you. Not you, sir. But the overall issue itself seems like somebody is trying to win the issue. We're trying to solve the issue.
 There are people out there that need our support. And guess what? And some of those people don't want our support. They're happy doing what they're doing. I've met some of those guys, too. So it just defies logical nature for something as critical as homelessness is and as sensitive as it is, because we're probably all one check away from it, that we will play.
 uh with the idea or politicize the idea to where we're still trying to figure out the next step when we try to have this conversation three years ago we tried to have this conversation probably 10 years ago and and probably about 50 years ago it just continues to go on and on um i hope it works i hope it works but i i i really find all of this to be very suspect at this point
 Thank you for your comments. Thank you for your presentation. And I am honored to have been appointed to serve since 2016 on the Homelessness Task Force under former Mayor Pete. So I commend the report and continue to look forward for us to work together on the low barrier, the crisis center that I was just appointed to by the Health Department and also
 continue to do this work. So I am hopeful that we'll continue to have a path forward through this very complex issue. So thank you to all of my colleagues for your comments. And if there's any further questions, again, you could direct them to Mr. Gathers or to myself for us to get some answers for you. Thank you so much. I appreciate the time. Thank you. Have a good evening. You have something. Thank you. At this time, we will have the commuters trust team come on up, Denise.
 please state your name and address good evening my name is denise lynn riedel i'm the chief innovation officer for the city of south bend with offices on the 12th floor of this building
 I'm going to let Lynn Wetzel here set up. Lynn is the Executive Director of Commuters Trust, and so I'm going to pass over the limelight to her shortly, and she's going to give you, the council members, just an overview of the program. Actually, this program really started in 2018 when several folks in innovation technology in the mayor's office started to engage with residents.
 about barriers to employment in the city of South Bend. And we really heard the theme over and over again during that time. That was even before I started at the city, that transportation insecurity was a big barrier to not only getting but keeping a job for hourly wage workers.
 And so I just kind of wanted to ground this program that Lynn is going to provide an overview on. In that problem, and back in that time in 2018, that same year, Bloomberg Philanthropies posted an opportunity called the Mayor's Challenge. And it was a competition between cities to win $1 million to solve a systemic problem.
 that was potentially had transferable solutions that other cities could learn from. The thing about South Bend is we're a mid-sized city and our transportation challenges are very real. There are lots of other cities that experience challenges like ours. Doesn't look like Chicago,
 It doesn't look like a rural area either. We have a bus system here. We have public transit. We have lots of assets, but we don't have the density that a big city has. So we have some really unique challenges that we realized made us a great test bed for innovation in South Bend. And so that's really the history of this.
 Lynn's going to provide an overview of the program for you. I know many of you have been involved to some degree during the Commuter's Trust project, but it's been a while since we've had a formal update to Council. And so we wanted to just give you an overview of the entire program.
 been, I think, 10,000 free or discounted rides since we last talked to you. Pandemic has happened. A board was created, a whole governance system. Three staff have been recruited, a small but lean team, and 20-plus partners probably have been involved in this project. And so Lynn's going to provide an overview. Thank you.
 And any questions we can't answer today, we'd be happy to provide in writing to you after the presentation, too. But without further ado, I'll pass it over to Lynn Wetzel, and she's going to give you an overview of Commuter's Trust. Hello, all. My name is Lynn Wetzel from the Technology Research Center on 1165 Franklin Street. Can you all hear me? Sorry. Here we go.
 Okay. Hello, everyone. I am the director of Commuter's Trust. I work with Jamison Edwards, who is our project manager, and Rafael Ademi, who is also our InFocus fellow. Next slide.
 So as you all know, transportation is a common obstacle. It is keeping that's keeping a job and accessing critical services. And so this is why we we created Commuters Trust. This is why it's formed.
 So today we are going to do a quick overview. We're going to review the program origins, the partners, benefit offerings. We're going to review programs impact on the community and then we'll take some any questions that you may have.
 So, as Denise mentioned, the city of South Bend participated in the Bloomberg Mayor's Challenge. It's a year-long competition that challenges cities to uncover and test innovative solutions to confront some of the toughest problems faced by cities today.
 The city of South Bend engaged with residents to understand the barriers of employment, and there were two barriers that came up over and over again, and that was affordable, accessible child care and reliable transportation.
 So there is a decision that was made to focus on transportation. So the city of South Bend crafted an application for the Bloomberg's Mayor's Challenge and won the $1 million grant to test innovative programs to help hourly wage workers in our city.
 So, and the city of South Bend was one of nine of the winning ideas. The Commuter's Trust Program was one of the nine winning ideas of the 2018 US Mayor's
 So here, this slide you'll see here, this is some of the early days of the Bloomberg Mayor's Challenge. You'll see some familiar faces up there, Mayor Pete, Denise, Aaron Steiner, who is our founding director, and Jack Jacobs also as well, who is the former project manager within Focus. Next slide. So our solution to transportation insecurity.
 We operate our program operates and works directly with transportation vendors and program partners to test transportation as been as a benefit packages. We,
 have as Denise mentioned we've partnered with several organizations and employers in the region and in 2021 we actually hit a milestone 10,000 rides 10,000 mile okay here we go trying it again
 10,000 K rides. I shouldn't read the PowerPoint, should I? And that's 6,000 free rides, free bus rides and 4,000 free or discounted Lyft or Uber rides for members of our community. Next slide.
 So here is just a timeline here. So you'll see in 2018, we test the ideas of the program with two local employers, and then we were able to receive the $1 million grant in 2018. And then in 2019, we launched our phase one
 phase one of our ride guarantee program. That's the program that provides the free and discounted rides. We launched that in September of 2019, and we offer discounted lift rides and transport bus passes as well. And then in 2020, in March of 2020, we actually launched our
 We actually launched phase two of our program. So in addition to providing lift discounts and digital bus passes, we also provided carpool reimbursement options as well. And we had two new employer partners that joined the ride guarantee phase two program in 2020.
 So, as you notice, the timing wasn't the best in 2020, but in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, we realized that there is a need to help more residents suffering from transportation insecurity in our community.
 Commuter's Trust, we were able to, with our ride guarantee program, we decided to test Uber benefits with our workforce development agency partners with Work One and Goodwill to provide rides to clients.
 Because if you think about it, you have individuals who need rides to and from work, but then you also have individuals who are training, who don't have a job, who are trying to get a job, and they also need assistance as well. And so...
 And then also from there, we kind of use the workforce development program. If you want to go to the next slide, in 2021, we actually launched our community nonprofit partner program, CMPP. So that provides fully subsidized rides to over 150 individuals through partnership with 13 different community organizations.
 So, again, we are providing as many rides as we possibly can, you know, fully subsidized rides to people who need access to critical services.
 And then, and also in 2021, we offered these no-cost trials to different employers. So if they wanted to test out our program to kind of see if this is something that would work for them, they could test out the program for an eight-week period, and that was a no-cost trial. And through those trials, we were actually able to pick up six additional employer partners.
 Then we also, in 2021, at the end of 2021, we started piloting gas card programs, a gas card program. And this is a debit card that has a merge code restriction that allows individuals to pay for only gas or for car repairs.
 Because, again, we understand that there are individuals who may have a vehicle, but they're struggling to pay for gas or they're struggling with car repairs. And it would be extremely difficult for them to go and purchase a new car, purchase a new or used car, especially at this time, with car prices being what they are.
 And so that also just leads to the next point. We also hosted a launch event with on the road lending in 2021. That's a CDFI providing affordable loans for qualified individuals. So we hosted events at the end of 2021 because again, we wanted to make sure that everyone has reliable transportation.
 And there are just so many different, you know, needs in the community, whether that's, you know, a bus pass, whether that's a discounted Lyft or Uber ride, or just help with a loan for a car or help with repairs. Next slide.
 So just quickly, just a program overview. So our goals for our three programs that we have, and really this is just, it's all one program, but there are three buckets. So it started off with our employer sponsored program, right? And the goal of that is really to just kind of make it easy. We have an automated enrollment process for this program through our text-based web app system.
 And we work with CodeWorks to help develop that system. And that was launched at the end of 2021. And also, we want to increase productivity, decrease absences and stress. So we want to track an individual's participation and usage and their feedback to accurately report costs and impacts.
 Then the goal of our workforce development program, TABUSU hires trainee numbers for partnered workforce development agencies for those individuals who are able to pay for transportation on their – for those who are not able to pay for transportation on their own.
 And then finally, the goal for the community nonprofit program really to increase self-sufficiency by easing access to critical services for our most vulnerable population.
 And this here you'll see these are just a few pictures of a ride guarantee enrollment. I must admit it's been a while since we've taken pictures. These were taken actually before I actually joined the team in 2019, as you see here. But there are a lot of on-site visits that the team did to recruit different individuals to join our ride guarantee program. Next slide.
 And then here you will see, so you'll see here a list of our employer and workforce development partners, as well as our community nonprofit partners.
 One thing to note here, Catholic Charities, United Religious Communities, as well as La Casa, we're working with them and they are actually helping Afghan families as they resettle into the community. So we're assisting them. And we, again, recently added Catholic Charities and United Religious Communities to our list of organizations that we're partnering with. They were originally part of the one year pilot that we started.
 Next slide. And here you'll just see a few pictures of our program offerings, just the Transpo bus. And then we also have a participant here who is taking a Lyft ride. OK, and here we go. Our big milestone here. And this was posted on Bloomberg's Twitter page. Be able to see here.
 So the employer sponsored programs impact. So commuters trust. So we actually partnered with Notre Dame and the Pulte Institute to study program impacts. And then here are just some high level insights from.
 You'll see here, so during the first four months of the program in 2019, employers saw kind of a decrease in absences. But then when we got into 2020, here you'll see that there are some mixed results. And I mean, and really, you know, a lot of that is that.
 the pandemic, but there were, you know, COVID had like a really big impact on essential workers that we, and you'll just see that there is an 85 percent decrease in volume to safety for those illness, etc. That's what you'll see here. And so because of that, yep, you can go to the next slide. So
 As I mentioned, so it was essentially just with the reporting, we were getting mixed results. And you think about absenteeism and you think about tardiness, there are other things that affect that. So, you know, we're talking about homelessness, you talk about food insecurity, you talk about child care. So we moved towards self-reporting. So there are researchers at the University of Michigan, Michigan.
 that they developed what is called the Transportation Security Index. It was developed by Dr. Alex Murphy and Dr. Alex Goldworth at the University of Michigan. And so participant TSI measures are collected upon enrollment in the program and every 60 days thereafter. So the
 And so for a TSI score, if you have a low TSI score, then you would be considered transportation secure. So CMPP participants, those individuals who are providing full subsidies for, they have higher TSI scores on average than some of the individuals in our employer-sponsored program.
 So, and we actually distribute this TSI, these TSI questions every 30 days towards our CMPP participants as well. So if you want to go to the next slide here. And so this is, again, this kind of shows you based on the questions you add up the questions.
 the add up the the answers that they're provided provided to get a TSI score. And so this graph is actually of our CPP participants. And so you'll see that there is a drop. There is a there's a sharp drop.
 drop in score and then it increased again. Something that should be noted here, this I guess the time point for these surveys were taken during the holiday, and also you know you'll see here from the baseline there are 128 participants that were actually that actually took the survey compared to just 28 participants at time point four. So that's something to kind of be
 that these results do vary. But at the beginning of the program, we saw that there is definitely a meaningful impact on participants once they started with the program. So here are just a few stories of impact. And then I'll just share a few more.
 And I've changed the names of these individuals that are participating in our program. But you see here that Jessica, she credits the program with significantly improving her quality of life. You know, and even she recently tested positive for COVID, but she stated that the program saved her at least a couple hundred dollars, I guess, since November. And that's what we're, you know, these are stories that we're hearing is that you'll have people
 individuals that are saving hundreds of dollars just by joining our program. And, you know, that's it's, you know, improving their quality of life and just also just providing them with reliable transportation, which is really our goal of providing reliable transportation for all residents in the region. And then Jonathan, unemployed in South Bend, he's actually another CMPP participant. Yeah.
 he didn't have a reliable way to get to his doctor's appointments. And so, you know, again, you have a lot of residents in the area that need access to critical services. They need to go their medical appointment. They need to pick up their prescription, you know, and
 And in some ways, you know, the bus works for a lot of individuals. But so we provide that option of, hey, if you need a bus pass, here's a bus pass. But if you need to get to your doctor's appointment, if you need to pick up your prescription, you can also use this other option, which is a fully subsidized Uber or Lyft ride. And that's all. I just want to thank everyone. And we're just opening up for any questions you may have.
 Thank you for the presentation. I will start it with the right. Councilor Davis, do you have any questions? No, and thank you for your presentation. Councilor Hammond. Thank you. Thanks for your presentation. I appreciate it. In your presentation, it mentions 6,000 free bus rides.
 but in our previous presentation the city has budgeted 30 000 for the last two years for free bus passes and i'm wondering is there any communication between these two entities that are supplying free bus transportation
 Yeah, I'm happy to look into that and see, but I this is a separate a separate program currently. And so but I'm happy to look into that, Councilor Hammond, and answer your question. Do you recall like what presentation that was in? Mr. Gathers.
 Oh, with the homeless program specifically? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. No, from what I can tell, that's a different collection of additional free bus rides. But I can coordinate with Jordan just to double check on that for you. But it's a different project. Okay. I think it would be important to make sure that these are not going to similar pockets of individuals and...
 I love the program, but I just think, you know, some oversight on that would be a good idea. Secondly, MACOG and Transpor are conducting the CONNECT study, and I'm just wondering if any of –
 results that you are finding are being communicated to those conducting this study, because I think it will be helpful in trying to orchestrate new routes and figure out that
 Unbelievable question between coverage and density or whatever that thing is they're trying to get us to decide. So you will be communicating? Yeah, we already have. We've already attended several meetings already. So, yes. And both Transpo and May Cog are on the Commuter's Trust Board. Perfect. Thank you again. I appreciate it. Thank you, Councilor Wax. No questions. Thank you for the presentation. I definitely learned a lot today. Thank you.
 Thank you Lynn and Denise for your presentation. I know Lynn you're a little nervous but you did good. Seeing it from the perspective of individuals who were transportation insecure and since this program has come aboard it has made a tremendous impact in the lives of people who
 needed to benefit from a program like this. So we see it from the side of goodwill and how it's impacted the individuals that are participating in the program. I think it's going to be ending soon, is that correct? Or are there plans for expansion?
 Yeah, I'm happy to take that first and then give it to you. Yeah, so and one of the reasons why we're providing this update to council is at the end of this year, commuter stress is going to be transitioning from what I would call the piloting philanthropic phase to the operational phase. So you saw the long list of partners that Lynn posted on her slides. We're starting to engage with all those partners now and understand what that operational phase looks like.
 And so, yeah, no, at the end of this year, the grant will transition into sort of steady operational state to figure out how we can sustain these types of innovative activities in our ecosystem around transportation problem solving, but then also sustain some of the programs that we've seen work really well in South Bend through this project. And again, this has been a brilliant program in a great way.
 And the impact has been very significant. And we see it and we hear it. And we're very, very optimistic of what's to come because it really is. It's been great. The bus passes, the Ubers, the Lyfts.
 it has helped people solve a big problem. And so once we get the problem solved, now we can move on to sustainability. And so thank you for your presentation and the work that you've been doing. I know it's been hard work, but it's been worth it. Thank you. And I'll interject. That's what I was going to ask about after the money is dissolved. How are we going to sustain the project and continue on with the services that people need for this vulnerable population?
 so thank you for that counselor warner thank you and i agree with the earlier in your presentation you talked about the two greatest impediments to finding a job of child care and transportation i talked to a lot of our employers that can't find people when i ask them about how they assist with two of those and they go i don't know what can the city do um so i'm interested can you kind of briefly talk to me about transportation on a benefit as a benefit and
 and kind of what that looks like and how successful has that been? I don't want to take a real long time, but in just a minute or a minute and a half. And is that something that more broadly we can take out to a larger segment of employers in the community? And how do we do that? I mean, absolutely. I mean, we, again, we...
 We're able to recruit, I guess, a number of our employers. And I should mention, too, we split the costs with our employers. So it's a 50-50 cost here. And then the employee actually pays a copay for the ride. So it's either $3 or $5. I think I mentioned that earlier.
 But we were able to recruit a lot of employers, especially towards the second half of 2021, by offering those eight-week no-cost trials to allow employers to kind of test out this program. And between the trials, also, we had a number of webinars as well. I think between those two things, we were able to recruit the number of, I guess, employers that we have right now.
 So it's doable. I mean, and again, it's just, you know, we can just get the word out that this is a great program. I mean, if anyone is interested in the program and they're an employee, they can email us and then we can reach out to their employer.
 so that we can start a trial with them to see if this is something that's worthwhile. But most of the employers that we've worked with that have been enrolled in the trial, we've been able to convert them over to full partners. Yeah, I think if you went out and you said, you know, I can increase your or decrease your rate of absenteeism, you know, you having provided a portion of...
 a Lyft or an Uber I think that's something that that would go over fairly well we just need to you know they need to be shown the way to do it thank you I appreciate it thank you counselor Nizagoski
 Thank you. Thank you for your presentation. Councilman Warner kind of took the question that I was going to, when I heard benefit package, that really sparked an interest in me as well, because if that is a barrier for people that have limitations with transportation, what a wonderful way to get them to work, get them up on their feet and take that burden off of them. And a $3 to $5 copay.
 So I'll be interested to see how that rolls out is I guess that'll be next year since it's to be ending toward the end of this year. Would that be the measurement for that? Yes. Yes. OK, that's all I have. Thank you. Councilor Tomas Morgan. Thank you, President McBride. I thank you both for your presentation when Denise and I were brainstorming topics for our I.T. I.T.
 Committee and this topic came up and we felt it was important enough to have presented at Council meetings so all Council members would be able to hear the update. It has been a while since we've heard about Commuters Trust, so to get this comprehensive overview of the program itself to be refreshed about it, but also to see some of the the amazing impact that the program has had. I share with others who
 others of my colleague who share concern about what's next. It's clear this is an impactful program and so want to want to help think through how we continue to support such a program like this in our community with the kind of impact that it's making.
 Question I had was you just for clarification, Denise, you had said that South Bend is one of few cities of our size with a program like this. Is that correct? This is really the only city that's doing a program like this. Like Lynn said, there are nine other mayor's challenge or there are nine total mayor's challenge cities in the first generation of mayor's challenge cities. There's one or two other cities doing transportation related programs.
 prototypes, but nothing like this. And so Lynn and her team really are trailblazers in this respect. And so part of what, you know, we promised to do with Bloomberg is to really be open and communicative about the lessons learned with the program. And we get questions a lot from other cities and communities our size that have similar assets and challenges. You know, how can we replicate this? And so...
 Great. Glad to know that you're sharing the story and helping other cities think through implementing such a program. My second question is, as you work with employers and the new nonprofit programs, are you learning any ongoing obstacles that they have to increasing access within their clientele?
 So, you know, we're working, especially in the CMPP program, we're working with a transient population. So there are individuals that will, you know, change their phone numbers from time to time, and that can be difficult because we do offer digital benefits. We also offer a physical 31-day bus pass.
 Because we know that there are individuals that struggle with technology and that is that is easy for them to use the bus pass. But we would like to get more people enrolled in the program so they have access to those.
 fully subsidized Uber rides that we're providing as well. So if they need to go somewhere and the bus is not running or, you know, say it's a Sunday or in the evening time, they can use those benefits. Even, you know, even though they, you know,
 may not necessarily be super tech savvy. We try to work through it with them as much as we possibly can. We have great community partners that will really work with us and work with the individuals to help them get enrolled so they can have access to all of the benefits that we provide.
 So that's really great. And we also have a text, an SMS service that we have so individuals can text us if they need help with enrollment. But that's probably that's I would say like the biggest problem that we're facing right now. OK, thank you so much.
 COUNSELOR WHITE. NEW SPEAKER No, I just thank you. I would just like to thank you for your presentation and the data that you've been able to bring forward. And the one question I had has been addressed, and that was the sustainability of the program as well as even expanding the program. And you had made mention that transportation and child care were the two main barriers.
 Have you seen that trend to still be true in regards from you providing the transportation, but has child care become an issue as well? And if so, have you had any conversations with the child care providers? So, I mean, we have had some conversation with child care providers, and we've enrolled a few in our program.
 no-cost trial, but we're unable to convert those trials into full-time programs.
 Just in regards to the access for individuals and their access to to child care, we do get a number of questions like, hey, can I use this Uber ride to drop off my kid and then go to work? And Uber, both Uber and Lyft allows you, they will both allow you to add a stop so that you can actually go drop off your kid and then go to work. So, yeah, that question comes up fairly often. So we are.
 trying to to solve that problem at least getting your child to child care with this this uber uber and lift benefit i think it's nice to know that okay thank you so much thank you for your presentation thank you thank you at this time now i entertain a motion to resolve to the committee of the whole it's been motion and seconded all in favor any opposition the motions carried
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and a public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. And in all situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately be followed by the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. We're now getting ready to hear Bill 11-22. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 11-22 a second reading? Yes.
 11-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1033 Oak Street, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is. Bill 1122 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us.
 Good evening, Council. Joseph Molnar, Department of Community Investment, offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. Before you today is a special exception for property located at 1033 Oak Street in the Lincoln Park neighborhood, just a half block north of City Cemetery. The petitioner is requesting the special exception to allow for a duplex in a U1 Urban Neighborhood 1 zoned parcel.
 The property was recently acquired by the new owner. It had been illegally converted into a duplex sometime in the past. We know it was done illegally because there was no separation between the two units.
 When the petitioner went to pull building permits to renovate the building and update the two units, he found out that it was illegally done, so then he came to our office to seek the special exception. When we reviewed the petition, though, we did look at it as if it was currently a single-family structure, as it was illegally done in the past. This is the house as it sits today, or at least two months ago. Hopefully there's no snow out right now.
 When we look at housing decisions, we always try to look at the census tract data for the population, especially the recent trends, just to get a handle on what's been happening. Track 19, which is essentially from the city cemetery north to Lincoln Way West, has seen severe population decline since 1960, a decline of almost 2000 residents, which is 60% of its 1960 population.
 know household uh collapse in this area however we we did uh hopefully see a turnaround during the 2010s uh obviously when you when you've declined so much the turnaround uh it can be a little easier to acquire but we are happy to see it and this was actually the fastest growing census track in the city uh during the 2010s so there's clearly a still a desire for individuals to live here and the petitioners responding to that with uh renovating the currently vacant home
 This is the floor plan that the petitioner presented, essentially one unit above on the second floor and one unit below on the bottom. I know most of you heard the presentation earlier, so I'll keep it a little briefer. The Lincoln Park neighborhood actually has a neighborhood plan that was established 10 years ago in 2012, and it states, "'Existing multifamily housing located in the neighborhood "'that utilize originally built single family structures "'are supported.
 but opportunities to revert these properties back to single family are also encouraged. That's what this petitioner, the staff believes is doing. They're renovating the currently vacant building, but because they're not changing the exterior, they're not making too dramatic changes to the interior itself, a conversion back to single family would be possible in the future.
 Therefore, the staff sent it to the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation, and the Board of Zoning Appeals sends it to you as a favorable recommendation as well. I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. Council members, do you have any questions? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 11-22?
 There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 1122. Okay. Is there anybody here in the chambers that wants to speak in favor of Bill 11-22? If not, is there anyone that wishes to speak in opposition either here or virtually? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 1122 as well. All right.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 11-22 is now closed. Again, Councilmembers, are there any statements, comments? No. If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 11-22. So moved. Second.
 there's a motion and a second clerk jones excuse me um you need to make a motion i need to make a motion to send it favorably to the full council i would like to make a motion to send bill 1122 for the full council with a favorable recommendation thank you second there's been a motion in a second clerk jones will you please call the world yes council council member warner hi
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 11-22 will be sent to the full council with the favorable recommendation.
 we will now hear bill 14-22 clerk jones would you give bill 14-2 a second reading yes 1422 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south end indiana amending the south end municipal code at chapter 2 article 9 section 2-129 to change the residency restriction of commission members
 Is there a committee report? Yes. The Residential Neighborhoods Committee heard Bill 1422, and we sent it to you with a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Okay. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Victoria. Thank you. I'll start off by saying...
 TO PRESIDENT SHERRY MCBRIDE AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMON COUNCIL, I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR ALLOWING ME TO PRESENT THIS ORDINANCE TO THE SOUTH BEND MUNICIPAL RESIDENCY FOR THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION. I AM YOLANDA YOUNG-SMITH. I AM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION, 319 NORTH NILES AVENUE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA, 46617.
 and i'll wait for her to pull up the presentation i did present earlier so i'll go through it quickly hopefully uh we can get out of here so thank you thank you i think um miss uh young smith will have to test your skills with a backup of uh attorney aladdin the rose
 to give us an update until she can get it. If you want to give an overview of the ordinance, I think that would be great. Good evening, members of council. I'm Aladine DeRose, city attorney with offices on the 12th floor of this building. Presently, the South Bend Human Rights Commission ordinance requires that all members of the commission be residents of the city of South Bend.
 That ordinance has proved that that restriction has proven difficult in the past several years because so many persons have moved from the area who may be interested, who are interested and who have expressed interest in in being part of the commission as a whole. We cannot appoint nor you as the appointing bodies and the mayor cannot appoint members who live outside the city limits.
 Also in the last few years, and this is probably most significant, the human rights ordinance has now been adopted by the county. The county through an interlocal agreement with the city has enabled the city to enforce the county's ordinance outside city limits. We are enforcing the substantial equivalent of our ordinance within the county. With that expansion,
 Because we are investigating cases outside of the city limits, it makes sense to have
 certain members at least some representation on the commission of persons who live outside city limits. So for those two reasons, the fact that we are limiting the talent and the opportunity of those living outside of the city from being a part of the commission's conduct and its activities, supporting civil rights and equal opportunity,
 throughout the area. For that reason and because we now expanded to enforcement of the ordinance outside the city limits, we're asking and the Human Rights Commission itself has recommended by its own resolution that you amend chapter two
 Section 229, Article 9, Section 229 to 129 to allow commission members to reside outside of the city of South Bend limits within the county.
 Can you talk to a little bit on the interlocal agreement? I'm sorry. Can you speak a little bit about the interlocal agreement? Yes, thank you. The interlocal agreement came about three or four years ago when the county itself, I think in 2017, adopted an ordinance similar to that of the city
 prohibiting discriminatory practices throughout the county. That ordinance is substantially equivalent to the ordinance that we have in South Bend. So the county has an ordinance and the city have an ordinance substantially similar. The county had no body or agency that investigated the cases that fell under the jurisdiction of their ordinance. So the purpose of that interlocal agreement was to allow the city...
 Human Rights Commission to investigate the cases that the county might have under its ordinance. And so with that, we've entered into an agreement for the City Human Rights Commission to be the investigative body for the county and its cases within the county.
 The county pays us a portion, a stipend for that, for the use of our staff time to do this. And that's been in existence since, as I believe since 2018, it has been confirmed by this council as recently as 2019. And it continues indefinitely until either body determines that it's no longer useful or workable. At this point, we don't see that happening.
 Well, thank you all so much. You did a great presentation earlier tonight and with the technical issues that we're having, we're going to go. Oh, is that there? Yeah. Such a professional. You can go through it and it'll be really quick. I think Attorney Aladin covered everything. There's one thing that, so she covered that so we can connect.
 asking you to make this change next slide so she explained why we need to make the change thank you attorney aladdin so continue and you want to speak a little bit here so you know we have nine commissioners and we have two vacancies one vacancy i started with the commission in december two thousand and twenty one and one of our commissioners retired
 kind of retire and and then the other one became a vacant in January. So we've had some really qualified people who could fill these positions like Attorney Allen Dean said, but they were outside the city limits. So she explained why we think this is important. Sometimes it's been to the point that we didn't have enough to make a quorum just by one, just shy of one. So if we had a full.
 If our commissioners had all nine of our Commissioners then they would make it easier. And let's dress on me to wonder the day before if we're going to have enough people to present our cases and I don't know we said earlier, but I interlocked into look to agreement only covers employment. It doesn't include housing, so thank you. And if you go.
 And she did say what our resolution, we would like our resolution to the next slide to read as such. So instead of saying the county, the city, the city of South Bend, we would like to say the county of St. Joseph.
 Anything else? Just one side note, and that is that the member of the commission who resigned in December was a longstanding member of the commission and very active, and she could no longer serve because she had moved to the county. All I have, thank you for allowing us to present.
 This resolution to you today and they might have any questions. We'll take questions. All right. Are there any council members that have any questions for the petitioners? Yes, Mr. Davis. Thank you. The interlocal agreement. Why doesn't that include Mishawaka? They have a governing body.
 as well and it just seems like it'll be apropos for them to participate as well or even the school Corporation one of the two I'm not I'm just asking um we've asked the count we've asked mishawaka to participate and at this point they were not ready to commit to that but the ordinance covers the county so technically it affects mishawaka oh absolutely that's why I asked
 Because it seems like it applies to Mishawaka because Mishawaka is within the county. They're just not a part of the interlocal agreement. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the idea of them being a part of the conversation more than just a recipient. We had this conversation of some years ago and it was it covered the whole argument about.
 Their governance and also ours and us doing sort of the most, but they are not offering any assistance. I think we had a bill before this council and I want to believe that it was the LGBTQ plus bill before us.
 And they were really unhappy with the fact that there was really no office outside of the city of South Bend and that many of the members that came in here were residents of Mishawaka asking us to change or give them an ordinance for protection.
 And at that point, we had a discussion about the Human Rights Commission and whether the Human Rights Commission should be expanded and also include Mishawaka. I'm not stepping on your baby, your idea. I really am not. But I do remember that conversation vividly because of the amount of people that came in from outside the city who are not voters of this city. And they got a bill passed.
 for themselves that supported what they wanted to, and they lived outside of the city. So they were actually asking the city of South Bend to support what is not happening in Mishawaka. And I just thought that that was like, you know, kind of like, you know, a lot, but I'm going to support it.
 Thank you. I think Mission Walk-It does participate in many of this Human Rights Commission's activities, but in terms of being a part of the interlocal agreement at this time, they're not. They should be. Thank you. Any other Council Members? Council Member Hammond? Yes. Earlier, Councilwoman Tomas Morgan asked if there would be...
 I'm not sure if the wording was preference given to South Bend Prom before going to council or to board members from the county and I'm just wondering is there specific language that identifies how that takes place or I can answer that question and I think I I hope I did for acceptably to Councilmember Thomas Morgan
 There are no restrictions. However, what this does is allow the pool of applicants to be expanded, so we can provide to you when you, the council, make your recommendations for appointment, and when the mayor makes his recommendations for appointment, we can provide you with an expanded list of persons who live not just in South Bend, but within the county as well. And from that,
 you would draw and you would select at your discretion those who you think would be the best fit for the commission. Thank you. Anybody else? No one else? All right. Is there anyone from the public that would like to speak in favor of Bill 14-22? There is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 14-22.
 Is there anyone from the public that wishes to speak in opposition of Bill 14-22? There is no one from the public that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of Bill 14-22. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 14-22 is now closed. Council members, are there any statements that you would like to make regarding Bill 14-22? Okay. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 14-22.
 i'd like to move that we send bill 14-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation all right there's a motion and a second clerk jones could you please call the role councilman council member white aye council member tomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president niskowski aye
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 14-22 will be sent to the full council with favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, can you give us the roll please? So moved. We can do it by affirmation. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed?
 The motion carries.
 the full council is now back in session this portion of the meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole clerk jones would you give bill 1122 a third reading yes 11 22 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1033 oak street councilmanic district
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation? Yes. The recommendation is that Bill 11-22 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 11-22. I would like to make a motion for passage of Bill 11-22. Second. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll? Yes. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Second.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Muscovsky. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 1122 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 1422 a third reading?
 Yes. Third reading, 1422. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the South Bend Municipal Code at Chapter 2, Article 9, Section 2-129 to change the residency restriction of commission members. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for Bill number 1422? Yes, President McBride. Bill
 14-22 comes from the Committee of Whole with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 14-22. Move for passage. Second. The roll, please. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 14-22 has been adopted. There are no resolutions on today's agenda. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 16-22 a first reading?
 1622 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council, the city of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 19, Article 1, Division 2, Sections 19-9, 19-18, 19-19, 19-20, 19-21, and 19-22 of the South Bend Municipal Code to make tax changes. Thank you. I would like to move that bill 1622 and go to...
 well for public reading second and third reading on april 25th 2022. there's been a motion is there second i will now entertain a motion that bill 1622 is sent to parks and residential neighborhoods committee for when without a date it goes to the committee without i have a question about that
 I have a question about that. Yes, sir. Why would it not receive a date and a hearing? That's a bill that's been filed to support not only the second district, but the entire city. It's not coming from me. It's coming from my neighborhood associations. One person is here right now. There has to be a conversation on how do we support.
 Clean these neighborhoods up with all of these trees and all this shrubbery from thousand houses and thousand days or people who just don't want to clean it up.
 So by it not getting a date, you're telling my district and you're telling the people with my district that they don't deserve their voice being heard on this on this council floor. It doesn't mean that it does mean that. So why doesn't have a Mr. Davis? Because the conversation that I had and not from you, but from Councilor Hammond. But it's my deal. She called on behalf of you and the conversation on behalf of me.
 she called on behalf of you and she called me and we had an extensive conversation the conversation that I asked and she said and uh attorney Palmer also said you were present and agreed that this bill would not it would need extensive conversation the committee's chair had not been notified at the time so I am putting it in committee per your request
 for the joint committee for there to be dialogue and conversation. That does not mean that it not will not be heard. That means that we all need to have an opportunity for the people that it will touch to have a conversation so we can make sure that it is, uh, passed and that it would be, um,
 heard by the committee, heard by the administrators who need to be involved in all the stakeholders. So the conversation that I had on behalf of you- You're telling me that that hasn't happened. I've had that conversation. I was told that it did not happen. She didn't know, and she should have called me. You didn't call me. You had her call me. I don't have to call you. You had her call and speak on your behalf. No, she said that she was calling you because she was looking for another sponsor.
 She said that you have already said that you wanted to get something like this done. That's why the phone call was placed. I am placing the... I'm just being clear about this now. I am placing it to the Parks and the Residential Committee... So when does it happen then? ...for further discussion. It goes immediately to the Parks and the Residential Committee. But when does it happen? It goes immediately to the Parks. The conversation that you're suggesting. From your referral, you get with Councilor White...
 And, Councilor Lee, per your request, particular to that joint committee. Councilor White responded back to me. She said she'll read it. Councilman Lee did not respond. We're going to move on. It was assigned to the park and the residential committee. So, second district doesn't get to talk. There's a motion on the floor. Is there a second? Second. Clerk Jones, could you read the roll, please? Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. I prefer to, you know, bring these bills that don't talk to anybody. I'd prefer to kill them in committee and just let them go and die. You're assuming that I didn't talk to anybody and I'm the second of you guys saying that. It doesn't matter, but you're not going to put false information out there. You're assuming that I did not. Point of order, Mr. Davis. We're in the middle of a roll call. We're in the middle of a roll call. And I talked to the...
 our attorney and i talked to aaron well you had a whole meeting clerk john council member wax hi council member white hi council member thomas morgan hi council member hammond hi president mcbride aye seven eyes thank you um could you please read bill number 1722.
 1722 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 16, Article 8, Section 16 through 54, 16 through 57 and 16 through 59 of the South Bend Municipal Code to make text changes. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1722 to Health and Public Safety Committee. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. No. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 1822 a first reading, please? Yes.
 1822, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, an ordinance of the Common Council of the City establishing Juneteenth as a designated city holiday and amending Chapter 2, Article 8, Section 2-120 of the South Bend Municipal Code to appropriately increase the total number of designated holidays for officers and employees of the city.
 Thank you. I will entertain a motion that this be sent to the Personnel and Finance Committee for public hearing and third reading on April 24th. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones. Yes, it's April 25th. April 25th. Yes. Thank you. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskotski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 Nine Eyes. Thank you. At this time, is there any unfinished business from the council currently? Yes, I have a question. What is the system that's set up for the council members to be informed on what is happening? Case in point, just based on the last conversation about the bill, Troy said we should kill it.
 We assume that I haven't talked to a department here. We assume that I haven't talked to the committee chairs. We assume that those things didn't happen. All of those things happened. And then when the council was told that it happened, we still don't want to believe it or we don't believe it. So if folks feel like that they have not been included,
 What is the system that's in place so they are included? Because I did send emails. Emails went out. Folks got phone calls. There was a phone. We had a Zoom meeting that lasted over an hour. So what is the system?
 Who are you directing that question to? You. You're the council president. You mentioned Troy's name, so I didn't know if you were talking to me or not. No, I was talking to you. I'm saying that he said kill it before it gets when it gets here because it hasn't had a conversation. Well, I wasn't a part of an email. I was not a part of any Zoom call. What I did get was a phone call from Councilor Hammond. So there was no assumption from the conversation that I had. The conversation that she and I had, I was very she was clear on.
 the information she relayed to me. And when we move forward, that's the discussion that we had along with her sharing her conversation with Attorney Palmer. And I followed up with Attorney Palmer. So there was no dialogue between you and I. The message was passed through Counselor Hammond to me. So there's no, there was no assumption on my part. There was the direct conversation that she had with me telling me about the conversation that you had.
 and I got that it needed to be worked through so you're missing what I'm saying if it's not
 coming to and we're working on the chapter two updates as well. But and we've talked about this extensively at the past caucuses. That's one of the references of us having the caucus. What is the system for other council members to know what is happening with other council members? I get all of that. Well, if you if you would be inclusive to the other council people. Inclusive. Then we would know what's going on and not just coming on to the information on the mail. Yeah.
 What's the system? You're saying something. Communicate with the council. So when a person wants to file a bill, we need to communicate with the entire council that we're filing the bill. At least you need to communicate with the chair of the committee. I did. And you also need to communicate that information, I would assume, in hope with the president because she's the one who put the agenda together. You did. So. So the system that you're saying was already followed. No, I'm not. Okay.
 Well, you said, OK, so can we get some type of like clarity on how this is supposed to work? I've been on the council since 2000. What works is that there's a conversation. I've never had a problem with filing a bill and getting a date. This is the first time I've ever had a problem filing. Well, it's not out of it's in the statute or I could do that. So I have the authority to do that if if the.
 Chair was not notified. So we can have a bigger, broader conversation. I'm trying to ask you a question. And I answer the question. If you're not satisfied with the question, that's not my answer. I ask the question. If you're not satisfied with the answer, then that would be what you take. Seriously, this is nuts. You've been on this council for a lot of years, a lot of terms.
 And you have never seen I've never seen that happen. Can you please brief us on your experience on how council members are briefed on after something is filed?
 That discussion is between you and the president. You too, because you're on the council. So if you file a bill, you're going to be held to the same standard, I hope. We had a bill last year that went to committee. It went to my committee because you didn't want to take the bill. It was a utility rates bill. It got set without a date.
 because we set multiple hearings on it so we could have lots of public discussion. You're allowed that as a committee chair. Yeah. That's not what I'm questioning, sir. I'm questioning the system in place. Would you like to clarify, please? You can't, because there's no system. You can clarify. Normally, bills are given a date for a second reading, but that's entirely up to the discretion of the committee.
 Chairman of that committee. Apparently chairman of the committees were not involved in in these discussions, so that they are not, as I understand it, they are not being set for a second reading yet until there are further discussions on the bill both with the community and with the chairman of the committees they're assigned. We got that.
 You're still not giving me clarity on a one, two and three. You're just stating what has happened. We know that I'm asking for a one, two and three, four and five if possible. I don't know. But if a council member files a bill on the date that is due, then it's up to your discretion as the council president. Yes or no is what you just said. And that's fine. I'm good with that. But.
 Let that be it. Don't say because council member did not communicate with council chairman of each committee, nor did he have a discussion with the director of those different departments. If that's the case, then there has to be a one, two and three in order for that to be solidified. Of course, I'm not. Did you have to anybody? Did you have a did you have a conversation with Councilor Waxx?
 No, I didn't have a conversation with Mr. Wax. That's a point taken that the reason why that code is not with the date. Why would I have a conversation with him? Because the bill number 1722. So that's a mistake. It was supposed to have gone to Park and Rec. That's bill number 1622. Yeah, I know. That's residential and parks. But 1722, a code that's health and public safety.
 Sure. That's why. So that's my question. It wasn't supposed to have gone there. That's what I'm saying to you. That's a mistake. No, that's not a mistake. That's where that cold violation goes to health and public safety. How can you tell me it's not a mistake and it's my bill?
 Code, it still has to be assigned to the correct committee. But it was supposed to have gone to health and public safety just as well as, what was it, Bob? It was another one. Neighborhoods. That's what the other conversation was supposed to happen with. So that's why Mr. Lee and Mrs. White, Ms. White was connected with or contacted. That was because of the tree ordinance and parks and the conversation with neighbors.
 Aaron, I'm just asking for a one, two and three. That's it. If that's if that's how we're going to be operating, I have no problem. That's exactly when I just asked if you talk to. And like I said, when I have those agendas, the attorney is present and.
 The code violations falls under health and public safety. There's no trying to pinpoint, call anybody out. That goes under health and public safety. That's fine. Councilor Wax was not notified. That's fine. I'm in action for a system in place. That's the system. Okay, so you just came up with that because we've never operated like that. I've been on this council since 2008 and we've never operated like that. If the chair was not familiar...
 You've never operated like that, President McBride. We continue to have conversation with this is how it's going to go. Now I would. This is the policy of the council that's adopted. And we are working on that as well with the Chapter 2, which you know that we're working on Chapter 2 updates. That's one of the ones that we will be more uniform with what we are doing and how bills are presented, as well as we talked about emulating or looking at the county's standards.
 system as well and not having 1st, 2nd, 3rd reading on the same night. So that's still a working process says that the Rules Committee is upgrading with the city and county attorney as well. So we are moving forward with what we've talked about. I remember at least two years ago at the retreat about cleaning up Chapter 2 and that's one of the processes.
 Yeah, I got that. And I'm fine with that. Thank you. Is there any other new business? There needs to be a system put in place. Thank you. I appreciate that. Is there any other? I'm sorry. It needs to be on paper, too. Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. Is there any other new business? Yeah, there's new business. That's old business. I do have new business. I want to invite everybody out for 6 o'clock tomorrow. There's a meeting that the LaSalle Park Neighborhood Association is hosting. Okay.
 about Washington High School and even more so the West Side. And it starts at 6 p.m. It's at the Charles Black Recreational Center. And it's in response to the removal of a principal at Washington High School. But there are other issues that are connected. So all of you are invited. Come as you are or, you know, if you don't, if you can't, you know, sure, it's fine as well. So just wanted to update that.
 Also, and I'm going to be as quick as I can with this one. I receive really bad voicemails from someone. We can't track it back.
 society, everybody was empathetic with the gentleman and the way that he behaves and calling me. I don't know if anyone else gets those phone calls, but I get them. Yeah, so we know. Yeah. And so I there. So where I'm going with this is not necessarily with him because it's just a phone call, right? It's words, but you know, something to look at because people can get a bit crazy. You have an issue right now. Same conversation about Bex Lake.
 The fact that you have people that still live over in that area. I grew up in the area. Sharon, you grew up over there. Karen, you're from over in that area as well. And there's so many other people that have worked for the city that work for the city that's from over there. And as we are continuing the discussion about contamination, I find it really odd that we're talking about contamination in the present tense.
 We were victims. We grew up out there. We drank that water. We played in those playgrounds, et cetera. So we were victimized when we were growing up. No one is saying that the lead levels are dangerous now. It's clear. But you're still staying on top of a dump. That hill is a collection of all the outhouses that people lived in.
 And it's still trash. That's still trash. We can beautify it. We can say that it's fun sledding down it, but it's still trash. My point is that if we are not sensitive enough to what is happening with those people and then we hear from our mayor saying that we can build more basketball courts, then my next question is, when can we start planting more watermelon?
 Because that's how I feel. I feel that the statement itself in itself and in the way that it was presented was racist. I believe that that was that's called environmental racism. It's a real thing when people are allowed to to live in an environment that impacts their health the way that that has. There's all kinds of people that have died of cancer. I used to be a paperboy over there. I know, know those people.
 So I'm trying to impress upon your morals, your heart that this situation, yes, it's fine now. But we grew up out there. I grew up on Sheridan. You were off of Washington. I think that you talk about Camorra Street a lot. This this is our home. We were impacted, victimized.
 There needs to be more discussion and it needs to be more of a plan because the trash is still sitting out there. We're still impacted. Thank you. Anyone else? I just want to clarify that we had scheduled a residential neighborhood committee for April 14th.
 had to reschedule that because there are other meetings and individuals who will be part of the presentation. They have scheduling conflicts. I thought that we could move it to April the 18th. I failed to realize that that is a very busy day and evening, so I'm looking at April the 19th. I will email committee members to see if they are available and also if the chamber is available. I'll send out an email.
 Be the late tonight or early tomorrow morning. Councilor Tillman's morning. Yeah, President McBride, I just want to remind people of, um,
 meetings where we're gathering public input on the next home repair program. I attended the one at Howard Park on April 7th and it's a really great process in place to receive this public feedback. So there are two remaining tomorrow at the Charles Black Community Center at 530 and Thursday on April 14th.
 at 5 30 and um residents can also fill out a survey at together.southbandian.gov but really um ask for Council people's help in pushing out that survey thank you counselor please uh President Bright I just want to just remind people to be very mindful and prayerful for
 the victims of the shootings that have happened in the last week. We've had several that were under the age of 17. Thank God that they have not been life-threatening, but it is life-altering. And so we really, really need to look at what's going on and how are kids getting guns in our community and making sure that
 As we get ready to go into the warmer months that people are conscious of where their children are at and who their children are hanging with and working on ways to engage so that we don't have a violent summer. So I just wanted to ask for all of you for your thoughts and prayers for these victims and families. And as as we are trying to deal with the aftermath of of the young people having guns and what's happened.
 Thank you. Counselor Hammond. Thank you, President McBride. As an extension of the Child Abuse Prevention Resolution, I just want to remind everyone that there is the Birth Equity Workshop that is taking place at the Century Center on Wednesday, April 13th at 6 p.m. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I also like to invite people if you're not doing anything on Wednesday at five o'clock at the Center Branch Library, I will be speaking about the book and the movie Just Mercy, talking about injustices and equality for people on getting out of prison and needing assistance and help for second chances. Thank you. At this time, we will move to the privilege of the floor.
 Disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech or actions as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in an individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics.
 in which the Council has heard previously tonight on the agenda. The Council President may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privileges of the floor to the appropriate Council member and a request the City Clerk to contact a member of the City administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to by the next scheduled Council meeting. Is there anybody wishing to speak for the purpose of the floor at this time? We do have someone virtually Ellen Stecker.
 Ms. Stecker, if you could unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please. Thank you very much for allowing this time. My name is Ellen Stecker. I live at 1036 North Niles Avenue in South Bend. And I'm here to ask you all for your help with the enforcement of several city ordinances, specifically those involving noise, obstructing signs, and traffic obstruction of a business.
 Violations of these ordinances are occurring on a regular basis at the Whole Woman's Health Center at 3511 Lincoln Way West by a group that calls itself Abolish Human Abortion.
 The Whole Woman's Clinic provides very early abortion and I support their presence in our community as do many others. Their staff has worked cooperatively with the South Bend Police Department over the years that they've been in business to establish safety protocols and to put up appropriate no trespassing signs.
 However, in the past two years when staff have called the police for violations, the police might come, but no tickets or consequences for the violations have occurred. Subsequently, the violations continue. The Whole Woman's Health Advocacy Director, along with the Director of the Civil Rights Heritage Center, met with the South Bend Police, but enforcement has not changed.
 The District 1 attempts to meet with District 1 council member have been unsuccessful. Myself and another clinic supporter did manage to meet with Henry Davis, who suggested we speak with you all. I, along with the majority in our city, county, and state support access to abortion. I do understand that not all do. That's not the issue here.
 There are regular protesters to the west of the clinic with permission by the local Right to Life owners to be there to pray, meditate, and to offer flyers to patients. We're not talking about them. We're talking about those who screen cruel, very unchristian messages at patients and staff, who obstruct entry and exit from the clinic, and whose signs block the line of vision for traffic on Lincoln Way West.
 They create clear safety traffic hazards, including for the children that they often bring with them. Their excessive noise impairs the delivery of medical services. They cause chaos and anger for many, increasing the risk of violence. The Common Council passed many ordinances to maintain public safety and to permit legal businesses, including medical facilities, to operate. The Home Women's Health Center is a legal taxpaying business in this community.
 and has many grateful clients. I and others feel that these violations need to cease, and we ask your help in enforcing the ordinances that you have passed. I will email you details. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else, Clark Jones? That exhausts the virtual list. I'm not sure if there is anyone present publicly that would like to speak. If you can come up to the podium, please, and state your name and address. Yes.
 I'm not sure if I'm in line, out of line, but I'm a little bit upset. My name is Marilyn Gashaw, and I live at 2514 Kenwood, South Bend, Indiana, 46628. About a week ago, I called Councilman Davis. I actually have a phone full of pictures to support. In my neighborhood, the 1,000 homes in 1,000 days was impacted by that program. So we have a lot of vacant lots.
 We previously had vacant lots, but in the meantime, there's a lot of overgrown trees. There's a lot of large branches. Neighbors do not have the equipment to actually handle the branches, so I called the forestry department, and they said it was not something they could take care of because of the location of the trees, and so I called Henry. Okay.
 And I was asking for some kind of support. We're always talking about beautification. We're talking about making Martin Luther King Center the heart of my neighborhood. Actually putting $11 million into that particular corner and all the arteries leading up to Martin Luther King are scary. I don't even know how people would want to go to such a building if they drive through those particular neighborhoods. So I'm asking the council,
 to at some point support whatever you have to do to help Henry get what he's trying to do so that you guys can review what's going on in my neighborhood.
 I pay taxes. I have neighbors that pay taxes. I'm a homeowner. We live in a neighborhood that we've lived in for over 60 plus years, and my father actually built the house. So we're not moving. We've actually put money into our property, and I'm sure we'll be there until my mother, who's 92, if she decides at some point to go into a nursing home or something like that. Otherwise we'll be there. So I would like support.
 so that you guys can take up this issue and help us beautify our neighborhood. That's what I'm asking. Thank you. Thank you so much for your time. And with that, I will call this meeting adjourned. Have a good night.