by default to maintain good audio quality for the council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting, somebody left the computer on. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat. Again, your name and your address, and you will be called on during the relevant time for that particular bill. If you would like to speak during the privilege of the floor, please again insert your name and your address, and the council president will call on you at that time.
 During privilege of the floor, you'll be given five minutes. During the public input, you'll be given five minutes to speak. During privilege of the floor, you will be given three minutes to speak. And please remember to unmute yourself before speaking. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we will have the invocation by Pastor Lee. Bow your heads with me. Dear gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to allow us to come and work on the business of the city of South Bend.
 We thank you for a wonderful day that you've allowed us to have and those who have come to be a part of this process. We ask God that you would bind us together with cords that cannot be broken. Help us to work in unity.
 so that we can make a difference in our city. Help us to be able to look from different lenses and to be able to see from different perspectives. But most importantly, help us to do the things that are going to help uplift this city and continue to make South Bend one of the best cities in the country. We need you and we love you. Amen. I stand for the pledge of allegiance.
 And all nations are now divisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Sir Jones, would you call the roll, please? Yes. Council Member Davis. Here. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Nizgatsky. Present. Vice President Nizgatsky.
 President McBride. Present. We have nine present. Thank you. At this time, we will have reports from the subcommittee on minutes. Minutes have been reviewed for the subcommittee on minutes have reviewed minutes from March 13th, 2023, and found them to be correct and recommend that the same be reported by the council. Thank you. Is there a committee report? I have no report other than what you said. Thank you. Oh, I...
 I did ask for a couple of changes to be made to the minutes. I have not seen them since I made those requests. They were made. Okay. Assuming those changes were made, then yes, I stand by that approval. Can we, Clark Jones, get a copy of that when you get a chance of the changed minutes? Yes. Thank you. Is there a motion? Or were you making a motion, Councilor Wax?
 I'll make a motion to approve the minutes. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Yes. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Iskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 There's no special business or reports from the city at this time. Now I entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 President McBride, aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 03-23 a second reading?
 oh i need to ask for a committee report yes because we're getting ready to do the public public portion of that okay public hearing yes bill 03-23 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the committee of the whole with a favorable recommendation okay a clarification even though this is does she still have to read the bill correct yes yes okay thank you
 Okay, 0323, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing to and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana, certain land located in German Township, contiguous therewith, Councilmanic District Number 1, for the southeast corner of Nips Parkway and Olive Road, South Bend, Indiana. All right, petitioner, will you give your name and address and...
 um give us key points regarding the builders before us good evening michael devita principal planner with the city of south bend offices on the 14th floor of this building so an annexation has been requested by the property owner of two parcels at the southeast corner of nims parkway and olive road the annexation area is an island that's totally surrounded by the city
 It would be automatically zoned to S1 upon annexation. Petitioners here can go into more detail on the proposal, but the annexation would be used for an expanded parking area and landscaping for the adjoining Resurrection Lutheran Academy school site. Thank you. John Schrader with Resurrection Lutheran Academy. Address is 6840 Nymphs Parkway.
 We went to, as is shown in the diagram there, have some expanded parking, but that would be on what is currently county and city property. And the permitting goes a lot better if it's all in the city. So we are requesting that you favorably approve this so that we can go forward. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much. We've already had council.
 discussion on this. So we'll now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor? I don't see anyone from the public, from the virtual public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 03-23. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 03-23?
 There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 03-23 is now closed. Councilmembers, do you want to make any statements? All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I move that we send it to the folk council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Watts. Aye.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 03-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 11-23 a second reading?
 11-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1306 and 1330 High Street and 909 East Broadway Street, Councilmanic District No. 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. Bill 11-23 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon, and because the petitioner was not present at the meeting, we moved that forward with no recommendation. Good evening. Angela Smith, the zoning administrator for the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor. We did reach out to the petitioner between committee and council, and they have asked for this item to be tabled to the next council agenda.
 I will now entertain a motion. Make a motion to table Bill 1123 to April 24th of 2023. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clark Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 aye council member lee aye council member warner aye president mcbride nine eyes
 Okay. Before we, President McBride just mentioned to me that we had people that was here to speak publicly for it. Should that wait till the 24th? Yes. Okay. To those of you who are here for that, we apologize for this and ask that you meet us back here on April the 24th. Thank you very much. All right. So now we'll go to Bill 12-23.
 Clerk Jones, will you give it a second reading? 1223, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council, the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 439 Dundee Street, Councilmanic District number 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. Bill number 12-23 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Good evening. Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator for the City of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building. The petitioner at 439 Dundee is Redline Property LLC, seeking a special exception for a two-unit dwelling or what's commonly known as a duplex.
 It is an existing residential structure. The property record card lists it as single family, but as you can see here, there are two doors, and I believe it had been occupied in the past as a duplex. The property's owner is looking to make some improvements to the property and in doing so needs the proper approvals from the zoning, which is a special exception for the two-unit dwelling property.
 They aren't anticipating any significant changes to the property that we're aware of. Verting this house will complement the neighborhood and offer a variety of housing options. And this comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. I'd be happy to answer any questions. And the petitioner is here. All right. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner?
 Thank you. I just have one question. Will you be managing these properties? Are you planning to, like, fix it up and flip the property? Yes, I will be managing them. Okay. Thank you so much. Councilwoman Lori Hammond. That was also my question. All right. Any more from the council members? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 12-23, Clerk Jones?
 See anyone in the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill? Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I don't see anyone wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing portion of Bill 12-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Make a motion to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember White. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 12-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, will you give 13-23 a second reading?
 13-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1602 South Michigan Street, Councilmanic District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill Number 13-23 came before zoning and annexation.
 And it comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation, including commitments to this special exception.
 All right petitioner, would you please give us your name and address and share those key points regarding the bill? Good evening, Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the City of South Bend office located on the 14th floor of this building. The petitioner is for 1602 Michigan Street. It's owned by JMJ Group LLC. It's the leasee or the occupant that's seeking the special exception for a group residence.
 The group residence will allow the home to be occupied by more than two unrelated individuals without converting it into separate dwelling units or apartments. The written commitment following this afternoon's committee discussion that you have before you is for no more than one family per bedroom, no more than five families per dwelling. That coincides with the petitioner's presentation that this is a five-bedroom home and that ensures that if this goes beyond the
 current owner to future owners that we can kind of control a little bit of how many individuals are in there since the blanket approval would allow unlimited number of individuals.
 granting the special exception to allow residential use and prevent this from sitting vacant or becoming a problem for the area. South Michigan's a commercial corridor that really has a wide variety of uses, making this is a good location for this type of group residence where it's a mix of both commercial, residential and institutional type uses along the corridor. Based on the information,
 provided at the public hearing for the Board of Zoning Appeals. This comes to you with a favorable recommendation, and the tenant is here to speak as well. State your name and your address, please. Yes, my name is Clara Ross. I am the founder of Homes for Tracy INC, and my address is 726 Cushing Street. As I stated, I am the founder of Home for Tracy. Home for Tracy will be a transitional home, not a emergency shelter for women and children. It has five bedrooms.
 Two of the bedrooms are for families and three of the bedrooms will be for single women. It is a program and the program is month by month, but the longest is nine months long. And of course, that time she will work on her credit. She will work on her self-sufficiency, her life skills, savings and financial literacy.
 Thank you very much. We appreciate your work. Council members, do you have any questions? We talked a lot of it through during the committee meetings. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing. Claire Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 13-23? I don't see anyone in the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition?
 there's no one present virtually wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, then the public hearing on Bill 13-23 is now closed. Councilmembers, do you want to make any statements or Councilwoman Laurie Hammond? Thank you. I would like to thank you for the program that you're providing, for the energy that you've put into this.
 And I know that probably along with other council members, I would like to extend an offer for any assistance you may need that I might be able to bring with the groups that I'm associated with. So thank you.
 I would just like to say congratulations again for all the tireless work that you have been doing over the years in this community and a job well done. And I do have those donated items to get to you. And I'm proud to have you in the third district. Claire, you know, I've been knowing you for a long time and you have been a great servant leader in our community. And to see this come from vision to flourishing.
 It's been amazing, and we just wish you the best of luck in everything that you're trying to do and the work that you do to help those who need it. Thank you. Anyone else?
 I'd just like to call the sentiments of my fellow council members, but would also want to add that any items that you might need as you move forward, please just text me. You have my text number and I do have various organizations that will welcome the opportunity to support you. Thank you.
 All right. With that being said, I will now enter a motion regarding Bill 13-23. I make a motion to send Bill 13-23 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisga'a. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member White? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 13-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. If you are here for Bill 14-23, which is the bed bug ordinance, it has been postponed to April the 24th. So thank you if you came for that. And if that being all,
 I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Vice President Nisgast. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right.
 All right, we'll report back to the full council. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading, and action is taken regarding bills that were heard through the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 1123 a third reading? 1123. That's the one that was tabled. I'm sorry. That is tabled until April the 24th. Thank you so much. Let me get my records right.
 Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 1223 a third reading? 1223, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 439 Dundee Street, Councilmanic District No. 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1223? Yes, 1223 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1223. Passage? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk, go on the roll, please. Councilmember Davis? Yes.
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 1223 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 1323 a third reading?
 13-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1602 South Michigan Street, Councilmanic District No. 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you.
 counselor lee is there a recommendation for from the committee of the whole regarding bill 1323. bill 1323 was heard in the committee of the whole and it now comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation thank you i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 1323 passage second it's been moving second at clerk jones the road please council member lee aye council member warner aye council member watts aye
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 1323 has been adopted. Resolutions. This is a portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions.
 The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendations is then given. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name, address, and comments on the bill.
 If you have questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you give Resolution 2316 a reading?
 2316, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting a written fiscal plan and establishing a policy for the provision of services to an annexation area in German Township. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes. This came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon and comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Presenter? Yes.
 Good evening again Michael DeVita principal planner with the city with offices on the 14th floor of this building. So this fiscal plan is for a 1.2 acre annexation that's been requested by the property owner of two parcels at the southeast corner of Nymphs Parkway and Olive Road. As you heard earlier an expanded parking area with landscaping for the Resurrection Lutheran Academy is planned for the area.
 No capital improvements are proposed by the city now as part of the annexation. Water and sewer are both available along both NIMS Parkway and Olive Road. NIMS Parkway is already in the city limits. Part of the Olive Road right away will be added with this annexation. The Resurrection Lutheran annexation area will be added to the Common Council's 1st District and served by Police Beat 22, Fire Station 11, Emergency Medical 11, and Neighborhood Services and Enforcement Area 5.
 These and other non-capital services will be in place within one year of the effective date of annexation with response times comparable to other areas of the city. I then ask for the council's adoption of the fiscal plan for this annexation area, but I'd be happy to take any questions you might have. Thank you. Council, do you have any comments or questions? No. With that, I'll turn to the public. Are there any comments from the public? There's no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest to make comments on this issue.
 Thank you. With that, I'll turn back to council. What you say you? Move for passage of resolution 2316. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk, you're on the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Miscavige. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2316 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2317 a reading? Yes. Yes.
 2317, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 213 West Washington Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement.
 or Apartments and Commercial Space at Washington Square, LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. 23-17 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Presenter? Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you for your consideration is the confirming resolution for a mixed-use real property tax abatement program.
 Two weeks ago, this body approved the declaratory resolution. This is an eight-year abatement for the apartment department.
 apartments within Liberty Tower. The developer owner of the building is getting ready to complete a multi year rehabilitation of this building. You might recall that the Aloft Hotel was phase one phase two is also retail space. This would complete the rehabilitation project private investment just for this
 The project would be nearing $15 million. What this project will do is create 90 brand new apartments on the top nine floors of the building. In addition, on the seventh floor, there will be public space, including meeting places,
 a bar lounge and an outdoor area on the seventh floor roof deck on the north side of the building. As I mentioned, this is an eight year abatement that you are considering. And current taxes on this parcel within Liberty Tower are only about $42,000 a year. With this abatement in place,
 Following the project's completion, we anticipate that the first year of taxes to be paid within the abatement schedule would be $30,000 higher than what they're currently paying.
 you know, before you on the screen are the estimated taxes to be paid and taxes to be abated during the lifetime of the abatement. Also, you'll see projections for future tax revenues brought in from the completion of this project. I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. And in addition, a representative for the developer is here as well. Thank you, counsel. I'll turn to you for questions or comments at this time.
 Councillor Hammond. Yes, thank you. I'm just wondering, are the apartments managed by the same group that manages the hotel? Or is Bradley managing? I just would like some clarification on that.
 Mark Neal with Bradley Company offices at 112 West Jefferson Boulevard here in South Bend, downtown South Bend. The the hotel is currently managed by Azul Hospitality out of San Diego. They have a multi-year contract to manage the hotel, as well as the meeting spaces that are in the in the building.
 The apartments at this point, they have not identified a property manager. Bradley Company certainly hopes to win that business from the developer, but at present there is no agreement. Azul Hospitality is a hotel management company. They do not manage apartments. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions or comments? If not, I'll turn to the public. Clark Jones. There's no one from the public that's expressing interest to speak on this bill. No.
 Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. Council, I will turn back to you. What's your pleasure? Make a motion to adopt Resolution 2317. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Watts? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President Naskowski? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye.
 Excuse me. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2317 has been adopted.
 Dr. Jones, would you please give 2318 a reading? 2318, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, commonly known as 724 Harrison Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, and 726 Harrison Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616,
 as a residentially distressed area for purposes of a five-year residential real property tax abatement for cross-community. Thank you. And let me clarify that this is a substitute bill. With that being said, is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. This came to Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you for your consideration is the declaratory resolution for a single-family residential real property tax abatement for two vacant lots in the near Northwest neighborhood on Harrison Avenue just north of Lincoln Way West. These lots are owned by a community group called Cross Community.
 Cross Community has a program where they build brand new houses and sell them to residents who have gone through financial education, home ownership classes, really preparing these individuals and families for home ownership. As I mentioned, these are two properties that are currently vacant lots.
 Each would receive a five year single family residential tax abatement. What Cross Community is going to do is they're going to use these cities pre approved plans to build two brand new two story buildings houses. They're currently estimating to invest over $440,000 to build these houses. What happens is they sell these houses to the new owners and those new owners become the beneficiaries of the abatement.
 for each house, not combined, the resolution before you concerns two different parcels, thus two different houses, but for each house, we estimate that after five years of the abatement that roughly $9,000 in tax savings would incur for the homeowner. We've estimated that total tax liability for those houses would be about $10,600.
 So 9000 of that would be abated. Quite a significant savings for these new homeowners because of Cross Communities program, the city is very pleased to be able to help support Cross Community. The Ms. Tina Patton of Cross Community is here to answer any questions that you might have and talk about the program as well. Thank you. At this time, I'll turn to council. Do you have any comments or questions at this time? Questions.
 counselor hammond thank you ms patton um during the break i learned that there are grants that your organization receives to help to keep the mortgage down to this wonderful 970 my question is
 Is there a time at which these mortgage prices are going to start ballooning? How long do those grants hold to maintain these low level of monthly mortgage costs?
 Tina Patton, president of Cross Communities, located 707 Sherwin Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. So as we were continuing talking about the mortgages that the homeowners are to buy, we were talking about the partners that we have with Cross Community. And one of those partners are the banks that we have. And what we've been finding is that the banks are having grants of up to five to ten thousand dollars that they're offering to our homeowners.
 basically because they're moving into the neighborhood. And so what those grants are able to do is either to buy down the rate, the interest rate at the time, or it can help with closing costs,
 Or it can also help with the down payment. And so the homeowner is able to do one of three things with the grants that we're getting from the banks that we're partnering with. Not all banks are doing that. So we're going out and finding it, again, helping the homeowners to have better relief so they can make the homes more affordable. So those are one-time grants that the banks are offering. And so as far as the time frame, it's a one-time. So they can either use it to pay down the rates.
 They can use it for a down payment or for their closing costs. And so as far as a balloon, there would not be any. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Any other counsel? If not, I will turn it now to the public portion. Clerk Jones? There's no one from the public that's expressing interest to speak on this bill. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. Thank you.
 What is your pleasure? I'd like to make a recommendation that substitute bill 23-18 be adopted. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Smith.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2318 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, would you give bill 1723 a first reading? 1723, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 751 Cottage Grove Avenue.
 I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1723 to South Bend Planning Commission for May 1st and to Zoning and Annexation for Public Hearing and Third Reading for May 8th. So moved. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye.
 I can't because Eli, I just looked up and saw Eli. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. My apologies, aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Cloak Jones, will you please give Bill 1823 a first reading?
 1823, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 630 and 632 Harrison Street. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 1823 to South Bend Plan Commission on May 1st to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on May 8th. So moved. Second. So we move and second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 1923 a first reading?
 1923 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 506 North Olive Street, Councilman and District number two in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send.
 Bill 1923 to the South Bend Zoning Appeals Commission on May 1st and to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on May 8th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 20-23 a first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 6 of the South Bend Municipal Code by rescinding and replacing Article 14 titled Rental Safety Verification Program.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 20-23 to Health and Public Safety for public hearing and third reading on April 24th. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Talk about it. I'm here. Right. Response. Everybody.
 Right. I didn't know who you was referring to, though. Yes. So that we were two years in looking at this ordinance. It was a requirement a year after that ordinance was in place.
 that it was supposed to have been reviewed so we reviewed it so we better defined some terms that weren't defined and redefined the processes so basically it was almost like reorganizing it to make sure that uh the rsvp inspectors had a clear understanding of it as well as the department also community investment is where it's housed so the names weren't even the same um
 on a lot of the definitions that were throughout the ordinance. So it did have to be rescinded and replaced. Thank you. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Councilmember Toulouse-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. At this time, I will turn it over. Is there any unfinished business? We'll schedule a report for next. I think I asked that there will be a report from BPA about the next steps with the MLK Center.
 i was just i think we have that scheduled um for probably the next council meeting i talked with um uh aaron perry i'll just say it could be a committee hearing it doesn't have to be anything on the floor i'm sorry uh it could be a committee hearing it doesn't have to be anything on the floor i think i did talk to him and i'll have to check my emails of his response because that did uh reach out to him and he responded to make a presentation but i just don't remember the date anyone else is there any new business
 At this time, I'll turn it over to the purpose of the floor. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes.
 Individuals should not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda tonight. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual doing the purposes of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting. Please state your name and address for the record. Good evening. I'm Sue Kessum, 4022 Kennedy Drive. Okay.
 what do you think um i'm curious to know how many of you on the council know how to read a financial statement i mean is that a redundant rhetorical question i don't know how to read my rhetorical great how about an annual report how many of you go to the indiana state gateway don't sometimes i had asked previously why the um the debt number that the mayor gave in his report
 Was $207 million. And on the Indiana Gateway, it was $220 million. And I asked why there was a $13 million gap and no one got back to me. You asked that of who? The council in one of these. Yeah. I wonder if that's where Kyle is in it. I asked it when the mayor was giving his financial state of the city, why the debt shows, the state shows our debt at $220 million.
 And he reported our debt as 207. And I asked where the other 13 million was, like why there's a discrepancy between the numbers that he's giving us in the city versus what the state says we owe. I will point Vice President Sheila Naskowski, who's over the Finance Committee, to look into that.
 okay thank you I appreciate it no and I remember bringing that up as well as the there was a also there was a line item there that talked about the expenditures and allocations and the expenditures exceeded the allocations by I think like 16 million dollars and then there wasn't talk about the projected funds for the next year which will be able to cover up the cost
 or the negative balance that was there was just really odd so that was the same conversation and was trying to figure out what the debt was coming where the debt's coming from and no one was able to explain it um mary didn't explain it either i thought it was pretty odd that you know you come in with a report that suggests these many losses at one time and there's no explanation so i hope that we do get that explained thank you we will get followed up by president sorry i also
 For a listing of the different abatements, and I haven't received those. I did a FOIA for that, and so I still haven't seen a listing of the abatements, and I think those are supposed to be recorded in the clerk's office.
 So they should be public record, but I haven't seen them. I'll follow up with our attorney with that since you requested it through a FOIA. And as part of that, I wanted to see if giving $0 for 10 years was illegal. So those were my questions that weren't answered. Thank you so much. Thank you. Bob, you got those? Thank you.
 State your name and address, please. John Pinter. I live at 1224 Sunnymead. I am the director for the United Religious Community, which is at 501 North Main. I'll be very quick. But we are hosting this week a group from the Central Asia, Mongolia, Caucasus, and Afghanistan delegation. They're here with me today. And if I might have your permission for them to just stand and introduce who they are and where they're from. Absolutely. Say your name and where you're from.
 Wonderful. And we have two members that are out in the hall.
 overcome with emotion, I'm sure. But we spent the morning, and it was good to see some of you trying to explain what Dingus Day is, and didn't succeed very well at that. But they are here on this visit. They've been in Washington for two weeks meeting with policymakers and think tanks and groups like that. So I thought it'd be great to have them come and see where the rubber meets the road here in greater city of South Bend. So I appreciate your welcome to them and hearing us today. And we...
 I have several that are breaking the fast for the holy month of Ramadan. I promise them we will be at dinner in time for that. So we appreciate you listening. Thank you. Thank you so much. My name is Henry L. Davis, Senior Reverend, 215 North Sheridan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46619. And I posed a question that came for my answer today.
 Thank you, sir. Affordable housing definition that you wanted was housing is considered affordable when rent or mortgage plus utilities is no more than 30 percent of a household's gross income. OK, but my question was the term that has been flipped around has been flipped on poor people and poor people. When they hear the word affordable housing, they think that they can afford it.
 But that's not true here in the city of South Bend with the way things are going. Someone just said they're spending over $400,000 on two houses. A person making $20,000, $30,000 can't afford a house. I was asking for a correct affordable house definition for people to understand and not be played. Fine. I take your definition. Secondly.
 Is there money to build the Dream Center? Because I heard a comment saying that out of the $60 million, there was only $2 million left that came from here. That money for the ARP funds, yes. That money was appropriated and voted on out of the original ARP funds for the Dream Center. So, yes, sir. So, there is money? Yes, sir. So, what is the holdup?
 That question, I don't know where the status is. Because they could have left the center there until the time of building the new one. Now we got a whole summer with a big hole in the neighborhood. And they're talking about the end of August. I do have a statement from Aaron Perry on that question. If I can open up my email, Corio, I would be happy to read that. Thank you. Give me just one second here.
 Okay, on the Martin Luther King Center, it says we had major community investment in the visioning and design phase of the new center and park. As that concluded, the public celebration to start the project was held in January in conjunction with other Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day festivities. Meanwhile, all programs and staff have been relocated to other community sites.
 Demolition of the park and building was step one and is essentially wrapping up now. Just last week, the Board of Public Works approved a construction manager as construction
 constructor, sorry, CMC project delivery strategy. This CMC project delivery method is somewhat new to South Bend, but is being pursued in an unprecedented time of skyrocketing construction costs. Having a CMC on board will help us get the best possible project at the best possible value to the city while following public bidding laws.
 As a result, the construction site will be later than envisioned, but we still anticipate a ribbon cutting on the new MLK Dream Center in late 2024 as promised. And then mention that there are project notes, rendering, and updates at southbendin.gov backslash buildthedream backslash.
 And they are placing any updates and such at that site. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Can I get it in writing that you have the funds? Absolutely. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? With that being said, this meeting is now adjourned.