each other on a gallery view that we could take a snapshot picture.
 Rachel, how's your life been? No, we've all stayed here. Everybody at our center is working from home. So, yeah, going on.
 Three weeks or so. Hi Sharon. Hi, how are you? We're great, how are you? Hi Sharon. Hi Sharon. Hi Sharon. Hello. Hey, it's Sheila too. Hi Sharon. Hey everyone. Hi. Hi. Hi. Tim, do you still, do you have to go in?
 Yeah, we're vital to the fight against Corona. Yeah. So, yeah, we're working every day. We take everybody's temperature. We disinfect several times during the day. And so far, it's all been good. We haven't had any issues with anybody. Good. My colleague from my old company was on the –
 Press coverage or the press conference with Lieutenant or Governor Holcomb today. So our old company is making a million masks and a million face shields. That's great. That's great. Yeah. All these people, all these companies kind of re to pivot and provide masks.
 products. I have a little bottle of Indiana whiskey hand sanitizer. Yeah, good. Our company bought $684 worth of journeymen hand sanitizer. Oh, yeah. And we shipped two cases out to California for a facility, too. Wow. Yeah.
 So are you guys hearing feedback on my end? Yeah, I'm wondering whose that is. Bianca, is that? Is it better now? I've muted, I think, because we're all on here. It's like a lot of people on here, and there's a lot. We have our phones close to our computer. So if we're not, in like one minute, if we're not speaking, could we mute ourselves? Yeah. Just so we don't get that echo sound, please. Okay.
 Yeah, I guess it's just balancing on everybody's speakers. Did you say you wanted us to move our phones or turn our phones off, Bianca? No, no. I think just keeping ourselves muted and also that's it. But we're not getting the other echo off of each other. Okay. Okay.
 Hey, Jake. Hey. How you doing? All right, how are you? Fine. Hi, Karen. Hi, Jake. How are you, Sheila? I'm good. Hi, Sheila. Hi, Jake. Hey, Tim. Is Troy on? Hi, Sheila. Hello. Yes, Troy is on. Yeah, I'm here. Hi, Troy. Hello. Hi, Sheila. Hi, Jake.
 Hello. Good evening, Troy. Troy, it's 620. If you want to go ahead and start the health and public safety meeting, I appreciate it. Sure. Okay. We'll begin the...
 the April 13th Health and Public Safety meeting. I believe we have members Sharon McBride, committee member Rachel Thomas Morgan and committee member Sheila Nitzgatsky on. So we have a quorum. The first bill on the agenda is bill number
 20-06, a resolution of a continuing declaration of local disaster emergency. And I believe council member Thomas Morgan is a sponsor. Would you like to go ahead with the bill?
 Council members. Sure. Thank you, Council Member Warner. Good to see everybody. If you recall at our last council meeting, we passed Bill number 20-05, which was the renewal or continuance of any declaration of local disaster emergency until the next full council meeting.
 This bill, 20-06, extends that period of time until there is a termination of the local disaster emergency lawfully executed or until this council revokes the consent. So given the continuing nature of this pandemic and the significance of staying vigilant...
 to mitigation measures currently in place. And for the safety and well-being of our residents, I ask that this bill, 20-06, receive your favorable recommendation. Okay. Do we have anyone from the administration that would like to speak on the bill, or are we going to go ahead and go forward with council questions? Troy, I don't think anybody from the administration is on. Okay.
 Okay, I thought I saw one or two of them. We actually have Casey, Jordan, and James. I saw James' name was on the list. Oh, okay. Sorry, I missed him. Are you guys able to hear me? We hear you, sir. Yes, we... Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Good evening, Council. Thank you for meeting under these circumstances and in this new way and appreciate your support in making sure we're able to
 continue the mitigation measures that are necessary to keep the virus from spreading within our community. So do we have any Council members with questions or comments at this time? Not at this time. I do not know questions at this time. For our attorney, attorney Palmer. It's my understanding that there's no public input, so we do not have to go to the public for this. Is that correct?
 That's correct. Okay. So given that, do we have any motions on bill 20-06? I'll make a motion to move bill 2006 to council with a favorable recommendation. Second. We have a motion and a second. All of the committee members for the health and safety, public safety committee, those in favor, do we have to do a roll call attorney Palmer?
 We do OK, I would ask the clerk then to do a roll call at this time. OK Councilmember Davis, can you hear me? Hello, you know Don, we can hear you. All you have to do is roll call the committee please. OK Councilmember McBride. I. Councilmember Thomas Morgan Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Sorry bout that I.
 Council Member Noszkowski? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Four ayes. Okay, so the committee will now go on to the second bill, which is Bill 16-20, Animal Welfare Suspension Ordinance. I'm the sponsor of this ordinance. Basically, this ordinance
 Takes two requirements that the Animal Welfare Commission has and suspends those two requirements. The first requirement being that the Animal Welfare Commission holds a hearing, public hearing within 10 days that it has determined that a citizen's animal is vicious or dangerous. The second.
 Second part of that is that it requires the Animal Welfare Commission to then also hold a appeal within 10 days. And this bill would suspend both of those requirements of the Animal Welfare Commission during the period of this state of emergency. Do we have any council members who have questions or comments on Bill 16-20?
 Not at this time. No questions. No questions. No questions. No questions. Council Member Warner, can you hear me? Yes, I hear you. I want to make sure because I try to ask a question. I made a statement. I don't think people heard me with the previous one, but I'm fine. I just want to make sure that you can hear me. That's all. I have no questions.
 or no comments. Okay, would you like to voice your comment from the previous bill this time? No, no. It was just very appreciative of the language because we don't know how long we may be in this situation. So, I appreciate the language and things, you know, beyond where we're at at this point. I'll give 30 to 45 seconds for any other council members to chime in. I have no questions at this time.
 Okay, given that, do any of the council members wish to make a favorable recommendation on Bill 1620? So moved. I second. So we have a motion for a favorable recommendation on the Animal Welfare Suspension Ordinance and a second. Will the clerk now please do a roll call vote with the committee members, please? Okay.
 Council Member McBride? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Council Member Naboski? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Four ayes. We have four ayes, so both bills will move on to the full council with favorable recommendations, and we will adjourn the Health and Public Safety Committee meeting at this time. Thank you.
 Thank you, Chair. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And 640, we'll start the next meeting so we have 10 minutes. Thank you. Chairperson McBride, if you want to go ahead and start the 640 Zoning and Annexation Committee meeting, you can do so. Sharon, unmute yourself. Sharon's having a little bit of technical difficulty. Sharon, if you can hover your mouse or your...
 towards the bottom of the agenda above the photos if you get those a bar will pop up and be able to unmute you or Bianca can you unmute her I can mute her but I can't unmute her okay um Sharon I'm gonna call you it's logging out and then logging back in so I apologize
 Okay, thanks, Bianca. We have time. We can wait for her to log back in. Hello, can you hear me now? Yes. Yes. Let me have the icons back. I'm sorry about that. At this time, I would like to call the ZNA committee meeting. It's now in session. Members, myself, President Sheila Naskowski. Vice President, you still there? I'm here. Thomas Morgan.
 I am here. Yes, I'm here. Thank you so much. I would like to present the Historical Preservation Commission suspending the ordinance and I have a presenter, President Tim Scott. Thank you, Chair.
 This bill, 1820, again, because of the COVID coronavirus, does the same thing as what we heard with Animal Care and Control or their commission. Yeah.
 It takes a historic preservation commission and suspends their requirement to have monthly meetings and hear certificates of appropriateness and any other hearings dealing with historic homes. It suspends that during any of the stay-at-home meetings.
 period or any similar event of local disaster requested by the mayor or the governor. So that's pretty much it. Thank you so much. Are there any questions from the committee first? I have no questions.
 Sharon? Yes? Is that you, Lori? She's on mute. Lori is. Someone was speaking. I don't know if that was Lori trying to ask a question. It is. Yeah, I have a question. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. We had a situation or an appeal before us. Do we have any idea? Yes.
 how far back that will be pushed? Yes, Councilwoman Hammond, that's a good question. I'm glad you brought that up because that is delayed. I know the homeowners have asked for a delay. They didn't give a specific time on hearing that. But during the executive order by Governor Holcomb, this would also be non-essential and wouldn't be heard until
 It would be heard until we come back. Also, part of the ordinance is if an appeal or hearing isn't heard within a certain time period, it votes in favor of historic preservation. That will not happen either during this time period. So good question. Thank you. Thank you very much. That was my concern. Thank you. Any other questions? I have no questions, Chair. Okay, thank you. I'm sorry, is someone speaking?
 at this time i think i'll turn it over um to the committee for the motion
 I move to send this bill number 18-20 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. And seconded to move bill 18-20 to the council for full favorable recommendation. All those in favor, can I have the roll call please clerk? Yes. Council member Neskoski.
 Yes. Council member Thomas Morgan. Council member Hammond. Aye. Council member McBride. Aye. Four ayes. Thank you. It has been moved for the recommendation to go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. At this time, the zoning annexation meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, chair. Thank you, chair. Thank you. Thank you, madam chair.
 We have two minutes, and then we'll start our next meeting. Just a gentle reminder to mute your speakers, your microphone, if you're not speaking, please. Thank you, Bianca. Councilperson Tushka, would you please start your 650 meeting? Jake, are you there? Hey, Jake, are you there? I'm calling. Hello?
 I think he might have said leaving that he left and so I'm trying to get him back on. Yeah, I saw me. Yes, we can hear you now. Okay, I must have been having the same problem that Sharon was having. I was talking seemed like nobody could hear me. So I log out. But I will call the Community Investment Committee to order.
 myself as chair, Rachel Tomas-Morgan as vice chair. We also have Karen White and Sher McBride here as well.
 The only thing on our agenda today is bill number 1720. That is to, in regards to certain tax abatement deadlines. I'm sponsoring that along with Councilmember Tomas Morgan and
 It's much like everything else that we've heard so far throughout committee. We are delaying certain deadlines in regards to tax abatement filings that need to be made by businesses who –
 have received tax payments and typically need to do annual reports and those types of things, we are delaying those by 60 days. So there's a specific time in this ordinance. It is 60 days. It's not indefinitely or contingent on the emergency order. I assume we would certainly hoping that this doesn't go past 60 days, but if it were, we would have to take another look at this.
 So again, much like everything else we've heard tonight, just kind of suspending the deadlines to ensure that nobody is penalized for. For not filing this paperwork on time, I did talk with or got a message from Dan Buckmeyer with Community Investment that there are still some deadlines with the county that that may have to be met. So but this on the city side we
 If this is approved, we will be delaying by 60 days those due dates. Is there anybody from the administration who would like to speak on this? Jake, I think you summarized, this is Dan Buckenmeyer, exactly what we wanted to clarify, just that
 City deadlines were being pushed out 60 days, but the county is maintaining their deadlines of May 10th or 15th for the auditor and assessor. And our team will be working diligently to make sure that folks meet those deadlines. Thank you. Chair, I have a question. Yes. Dan or Jake, has anybody talked downstate about tax abatements? Say a company wanted to start one today. Yes.
 Everything is delayed. How is that going to work? Does anybody know what the state's doing? I would defer. Dan, do you have an answer on that one? We're asking, but we do not have an answer at this point. Thank you.
 Are there any other? Karen, I do have a question. You had made mention that the county is holding fast to their deadline dates. Do you have any rationale as to why or have you heard any rationale as to why, especially, you know, in the environment that we're currently operating in, which we have no control?
 Well, again, I may toss this one to Dan. And Dan, I'm not sure if they just haven't gotten there yet or what? I don't have an answer on what the county's position is. And one of my staffers was told that they were going to hold their deadlines. Okay.
 Okay. So I'm afraid I don't have any further information. My second part of the question is, is there anything that we could do on our end to at least have a conversation with them? I'm not saying you haven't, but in light of everything else being pushed back, I don't know what can be done or I would like to know the rationale as to why. Councilman Tashka.
 Yes. Council Member Thomas Morgan? No, this is Lori Hammond. Okay, sorry. I happen to be sitting in the same dining room with the county auditor. He asked that Dan Buckenmeyer give him a call tomorrow regarding this issue. Thank you. I will do. Thank you. Thank you. That's funny. I thought I was sitting in the kitchen with the auditor. Okay. Perfect.
 Are there any other questions from council members? Yeah, Jake, this is Henry. Just just a point of reference. When are these reports due? When do they become, I guess, delinquent in their filings or even in their actions? I think that's a question that can help me out with trying to understand why one wouldn't want to do it or would do it.
 So, with regard, and I apologize here, is your question with regard to the- The tax abatement filing. So like every year, the company that received a tax abatement, they have to report back to the council saying we've done X, Y, and Z to make up for or to make good on our contract with the city. At what time during the course of the year do they have to make good with that pledge?
 I believe it is there is a case by case, but Mr. Buckmeyer, if you have something to add there. Yes, I'll do my best. May 15th is a normal annual deadline for the form, which is a CF1, a compliance form that one that
 And I think to maybe build on and answer the question, this is the only time throughout the year they're required by law to report out on things like hiring, growth, investment, other elements that they have accomplished throughout the year. So we don't put a...
 Deadline date be other than that static May 15th date, which we are talking about extending in this resolution. Sure. The city form. Right. So every May 15th. And so given we've been what on we've been on that ban for what? How many weeks has it been? What? Five, six, maybe.
 It's a window. It's not that large. I mean, it's grueling being stuck at home, but I mean, it's at the most, maybe let's say it's two months. I'm thinking the idea behind other governmental agencies or factions calling in those tax amendments, because that has everything to do with the year prior and leading up to rather than, you know, moving forward.
 That's just my understanding of my way of understanding it. And that's how it was, you know, some years ago. But I mean, things could have changed. And I'm almost certain that companies had they not if they're not doing what they're supposed to do. The two months in between that we're dealing with right now is not going to make that big of a difference. But that's just my opinion. Jake, Henry, that's a good question. I think we're going to follow up. We're up to the seven o'clock mark.
 Jake, if you could finish out your committee and then we can start the council meeting. Yes. Can I have a motion on this bill 1720? I make a motion that we send this bill 1720 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second.
 Okay, I have a motion and a second. Click Jones, could you call the roll please? Yes. I Councilmember was that happened? Did you just say Thomas Morgan? Oh, OK. Which one is OK? Could you call again? We can't hear you. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm
 Council member White, I have I. Council member McBride, I have I. Council member is she? I. Okay. Council member. I. For I. Okay, moves to the full council favorably. I will call this meeting adjourned. Thank you, Mr. Teschke. Thank you, Chair.
 Everybody, we're going to go ahead and start the council meeting. I'll make a formal announcement to that. Just so everybody, just to remind everybody, please put yourself on mute if you're not speaking. And I know Clerk Jones will do roll call on everything, and then we'll go down the line if anybody has questions as well. So, all right.
 Okay, let's go ahead and get started. Good evening. The Monday, April 13th, 2020 Common Council meeting is now in session.
 Due to the executive order by the Indiana Governor Holcomb, the South Bend Common Council meeting is being held legally by way of virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams app. So I want to thank the public and those who can join us. We want everybody to be safe. That's why we're meeting this way. With that, Ms. Jones, would you please do the roll call? Yes. Council Member Davis.
 Councilmember Davis. I'm here. I'm sorry. I'm clicking, but I'm here. Councilmember McBride. Present. Councilmember Warner. Here. Councilmember Teska. Here. Councilmember Nizgatsky. Here. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Here.
 Present. Vice President White. Present. President Scott. Present. All present. Thank you, Clerk Jones. We'll move on to special business. Like we did the last council meeting, I will ask for two motions so we can suspend the rules in here, both first readings and second and third readings all tonight. Would someone like to make that motion?
 I would like to make the motion to suspend the rules. I will second that motion. Thank you all in favor. Ms. Jones roll call please. Council member Davis, Council member McBride. Aye. Council member Warner, Council member Tesfong. Can I make a point of clarification? Yes. Which or ask a question, which rule are we suspending?
 Do we have to make two motions here, Attorney Palmer? Yeah, excuse me. Yes, we have to make two motions. The first motion is to hear all three readings of the bill on the same night. When that passes, then there should be a motion to suspend the rules to advance the first readings on the agenda so we can get all the first readings done and then go to the Committee of the Whole and then third readings.
 Thank you. Thank you for the clarification. My vote is aye. Council Member Nekoski. Aye. Council Member Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes. Mr. Palmer, do we now need a motion to suspend the rules to advance first readings? I kind of lumped those two together, unfortunately, when I was talking about that. We do need a second.
 I'll move to suspend the rules in order to advance first readings tonight. Second. Thank you. Ms. Jones, roll call, please. Yes. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Kester. Council Member Tashka. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President Papp. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Now we'll have an update from Jeff Ray, the COVID-19 Response Coordinator, to give us an update on where we are with this pandemic. Mr. Ray, are you there? If you would, please state your name and address.
 I am Jeff Ray, President and CEO of the Saplin Regional Chamber. My office is at 101 North Michigan Street, downtown South Bend. Welcome, or thank you for letting me join you this evening. First, I want to just clarify that you can see my screen.
 Yes. Perfect. Okay, good. I promise I'm not going to go through every slide, but I want to give you a chance to see a high level overview of some of what's going on and also give you a chance to answer a few questions. I recognize you have other business on your agenda, so I'll try to be as brief as you need me to be. Just a quick high level reminder, we executed an agreement in the last couple weeks for the city's outbound St. Joe County Memorandum of Understanding, whereas I'll step in and work as a COVID-19 response.
 coordinator, additional chamber staff available where needed to to pitch in and help on that effort. This is a really a partnership we're not asking to be compensated by the city south end or by St. Joseph County we're simply
 I think that we can add some value here and have offered to do just that. Important to note that the St Joseph County Health Department remains the primary lead on this. Obviously they have the technical and clinical knowledge. We're really working to support messaging and coordinate some strategies, enhance communication, address logistical needs, that kind of stuff. As part of this process, I'm in kind of regular and constant communication with Mayor Mueller, with Commissioner Castelny,
 with the health department, healthcare providers, all of those kind of folks. I mean, daily communication with almost all of those. And then we're working on a weekly summary, just kind of a high level of kind of some of the different efforts that are going on with that. And we'll make sure if you didn't see that last week that you're on that list. It would call your attention to just a couple of resources on our webpage. We've attempted to really consolidate some of those resources for you.
 to see it's sbrchamber.com. And then the state has a great dashboard of kind of what's going on at coronavirus.in.gov. And then I would just encourage folks to, if you have questions, if you want to talk more, feel free to give me a call, email me. There's a couple of numbers. Actually, that office number is the easiest to remember for folks. So just 404,000. If you have somebody who isn't sure where or how to plug in, we'd love for you to send them our way and we'll work.
 plug them in. I want to just touch real quick. Obviously, I'm telling you stuff that you already know, but we really have a health crisis and an economic crisis both going on here at the same time. Obviously, the health department and our medical providers are doing a good job really trying to assess all that. We're working with them on that, but also working on the economic crisis as so many people now are
 out of work with record unemployment and many of our businesses are struggling to get through. I will tell you in terms of just the planning in terms of dealing with the day-to-day stuff, I would put our county up against any in the state of Indiana in terms of how organized, how cooperative those efforts are. I think you already know that we have some terrific medical community, two great hospital systems here.
 other partners like Soplin Clinic and stuff who really should put you at ease that as much as we can put people at ease, that there's some really qualified folks working really hard to make sure St. Joe County is well prepared and handles whatever comes next. I'd like to think we're prepared for whatever that is. However, there's a lot of unknowns still out there. And as you're watching the news and seeing what's going on around the country, you know that there are probably more,
 questions than answers. And we're working to, you know, try to maybe solve as many of this as possible. We're going to get through it. We know that we're anxious. I think everybody to get back to life is normalcy, but we still have a little bit of time to go. And if you saw the governor's press release or press conference today, for example, he suggested that we're still we may still be a couple of weeks away
 from peaking in Indianapolis and we may be shortly thereafter. Originally, I think there was some thought that it might peak this week and based on current modeling that could be just a little bit later than what we had anticipated. You know, things that are happening in the community, you've seen some news on a few of these things, things like testing. So, you know, it's important for you to remember that testing is typically if you demonstrate some symptoms. So the advice we always say is call your doctor,
 explain your symptoms. If you don't have a doctor, there are a number of clinics set up around the area where you can go and explain your symptoms and they will test you. If you look at the state data, I think it's under-reporting the overall testing. I think today's number says about 800 people in St. Joe County have been tested. Actually, that number I think is closer to about 5,000 and we're working to figure out where the gap is on that testing piece. When I look at
 where testing is here compared to other parts of the state. We line up really almost identically with places like Fort Wayne and Evansville and some of those others, but we still wanna make sure that access to testing isn't a problem. We've worked to make sure that testing is available
 all parts of the city. And we really, in the last couple of weeks, have been looking at where else can we test? And again, remember right now, it's not set up where just anybody can show up, but if you have some symptoms, then I think that's the idea there. I will tell you, we made a major advance in testing in the last couple of weeks. LabCorp in South Bend is now processing some of those tests. So our response time on tests is much better than it was the
 at the beginning of this. So we're getting tests back, you know, in a really quick time frame. You know, so other things happening here, I think you've read before about a, you know, kind of a quarantine facility. Obviously, there are some folks that maybe test positive, don't need to be in the hospital, maybe don't want to go home and potentially impact other people. So we've worked on a facility like that. We are working on a model that suggests that
 potentially we exceed the capacity in the hospitals and we want to be ready if that does happen. I will tell you both hospital systems are expanding significantly within their own doors to try to handle as much of that capacity in the hospital as possible, but we will be ready with a temporary facility in the event that that's needed. And we continue to work with the State Department of Health, the National Guard,
 Department of Homeland Security, some of those folks on really getting that set up and being ready for the peak. And then I just threw a couple others in there. I mentioned the economic crisis that goes along with this. Obviously, the CARES Act and what came out of D.C. is put in place to kind of help businesses. We've identified a couple of things, though, that we think are deficiencies in that. We've been in touch with.
 the folks in DC about trying to correct that. There's some, I would call just some gaps that maybe don't, excuse me, help mom and pop businesses as well as we thought, but that money's starting to come out and we've had a number of businesses that have been getting awards and obviously small businesses in particular typically have 15 to 30 days cash on hand. So we're now about four weeks of shutdown since April or May,
 March 13th was the date, I think, that things really started to change there. So we're really sensitive to that and helping businesses plug into those resources. And then the workforce and education piece, obviously, record unemployment. You know, if you looked at the claims in San Diego County, for example, the first week of March, there were –
 I don't know, less than 200, I think. And there were about 5,800 last week. So pretty significant. And so making sure folks plug in to those resources and even where there are some jobs. So for example, displaced hospitality workers, we try to plug them in with the grocery stores, for example, who are hiring and needing folks. But this is an economic crisis that will last a little bit longer. I'm sorry.
 hit a wrong button there. I do want to just emphasize a couple quick things. This is just something I grabbed from National Geographic. And so you've heard all of this discussion about flattening the curve. And you see, this is the pandemic from 1918 and how
 communities did and flattening that curve. Some of those communities rushed back to normalcy a little too fast, and you saw a second curve. We'd like to do whatever we can to avoid that second curve, and so I think that obviously the state and everybody's paying close attention to
 The steps that need to happen for a recovery to happen and stuff. But this is just, this was just really telling, I don't know anything about pandemics, but this was, if you learn any lessons from the one from 102 years ago, you can see some of those communities that wrestled with that.
 One other, I mentioned just the economic crisis related. This is just some information today from the National Bureau of Economic Research that just talked about the likelihood of some of these businesses surviving should this go on for a prolonged period of time. And again, we knew that some businesses would have a challenge. This was a survey from them that just sort of helped illustrate that, that says, boy, we could have some issues long term there.
 You know, folks ask me all the time how they can help. I just think, you know, be informed and ask questions when you have questions is certainly help. You can send people our way if they're looking at how do I help my my church wants to do this. My we want to do that. We're really trying to coordinate as many of those resources with
 with the healthcare systems and the providers. Obviously we want folks to continue to follow the recommendations of the CDC and the health department in terms of social distancing. I know as the weather gets warmer, that's really hard, but we had started to see some signs of that curve flattening and we think that's important to continue
 to do that. And then, you know, again, plug into the resources. So the federal government really is trying to provide some relief and resources. Checks should hit individuals starting today, I think. And then some of that business money starting to hit as well too. And then the last thing I think is that, again, to have a lot of confidence in healthcare systems, the health department, our medical providers, personnel, first responders, who are all doing an amazing job on the front lines,
 I'm combating this. I don't know if you saw the news yet today, but today was kind of one of the more difficult days so far is as we talked about some positive tests at a local long-term care facility. And you know that nationally, that's been a little bit of the narrative and Mark Fox from the health department outlined some of those challenges. We had 29 positive tests at one of those facilities and obviously keeping a close eye on those things.
 My guess is when you see the numbers tomorrow for a test in our here in our area, they'll spike a little bit. It might be one of the larger increases from day to day that we've seen over a period of time. But when you have a high concentration, obviously you'll do that.
 So I honestly, the next week or two could be really difficult in terms of where those numbers are. And we had our another death today. And I think we're either four or five. And I'm sorry, I lose track of that. Maybe our fifth death today. But, you know, our health care providers are doing everything they can to, you know, to make sure that these folks get the care they need and hopefully recover.
 there's some recovery. So anyway, I guess that just a high level, obviously, there's a couple of things in here probably that I can't go into great detail right at the second because of kind of the planning effort that's going on, but happy to try to answer any questions that you might have. Can I ask some questions, Mr. President?
 Um, yes. And then what I want to do is go down the line. Sharon, can you, you can go ahead and start and then we'll move down the line. I can't hear you. Can you hear me now?
 Now I can, yes. All right, sorry. Yeah, Sharon, we'll start with you, and then we'll just work our way down the line. A couple questions, if you could, for Jeff, and then we'll move on. At any time, you can get a hold of Jeff Ray and talk to him more in detail about anything. But, Ms. McBride, go ahead. Sure.
 Is it possible, because I would think for the sake of the council, I would hope, and Jeff may not have to answer all these now, but I would like to get the questions jotted down so we could get a response. Yeah, that would be good. And honestly, having a long debate virtually, I don't think is the, you know, our long discussion probably isn't the best way to do it. But if we could gather questions by Wednesday. Okay.
 So for Jeff, submit them to Jeff and then we can bring them back and we can post those publicly too if we want it. Well, I totally agree. But I think a lot of times being that we cannot meet as a full council, sometimes it's good for us to hear each other's questions. Like I said, I don't want to have a he don't have to answer them all today. But these are questions that I really think the whole council we benefit from knowing and could probably get more insight from each other if we hear them.
 If that's okay. Sure, go. All right, let me shoot. The first request I would ask is that if we, as the council could have the weekly updates, at least weekly, I don't know if that would be more that you're getting with the healthcare facilities
 business and the mayor's office for us to be able to share with our constituents and to be able to lead uh accordingly is the first request that i have um and some other questions uh jeff tell me if i'm going too fast you're fine if there any uh communication that you've had with any of the black uh leaders or uh community as far as outreach since it's um
 hitting the black community worldwide more than any other population. The second question, I want to know the update on the homeless population status that they talked about with O'Brien. I don't know where the, where we are with that. I know we have been having problems with evictions that people are still getting evicted. And from my understanding, that should not be happening at this time. So I would like to get an update on that. And,
 Are you all reaching out to the small businesses like the mom and pop shops, or do they have to reach out to you in order for them to get questions or answers and assistance? And my last question is.
 is I don't know if you know, but I also work for the county. And from my understanding with Commissioner Costelny is that he's talking about county employees going back to work on April the 21st. And I don't know if says Governor Holcomb's report that came out today, if that still is in effect, or is that going to be backlogged? And those are the questions that I have for now.
 Thanks. I'm happy to answer some of those now, Mr. President, if you want. I can go through a couple of those real quick in terms of the black community. Both the health care providers and Southland Clinic have been the primary connection source. They have been working in particular on some additional West Side testing locations. I worked a good part of my first week trying to secure one.
 on Western Avenue that unfortunately fell through because of the property owner there. But there is a testing going on now at Systremore Brannock and on Chapin Street and Beacon is working on an additional location out on the west side there. And some talk about mobile,
 mobile unit testing and we've been working on that and then also looking at a Southside location. So I'd say the primary piece of that has been just on making sure there was access to testing. Again, the two thoughts being that you go to your healthcare provider, typically if you don't have a healthcare provider, then there's a hotline or 2-1-1 will refer you to where these testing facilities are. You can go explain your symptoms and then they'll actually do a test there.
 On the homeless, we have talked about an isolation slash quarantine facility. Initially, we had contemplated the O'Brien Center. We've decided on another facility.
 I'll be honest, we've been somewhat reluctant to release the location primarily because of, I would just call it the reputational piece that might go with this. You know, so we don't want this. We don't want Sharon's Hotel to now become the COVID hotel and have nobody ever want to stay there in the future because because it has a reputation of being.
 of housing patients that traditionally tested positive. Obviously, I'm not sure that we're going to be able to keep that completely quiet by Wednesday of this week. That facility will be up and up and running, but we've secured a really a facility that we're able to isolate folks. We've got a plan in place to monitor it, to manage it, to feed the folks there and such.
 This could be a wide variety of folks. It could be homeless who have tested positive, but it also could be somebody from your family who didn't want to come back to your house and potentially impact the other members of your family who instead will go to that. So by Wednesday, that should be up and running. It's really a regional facility that's aimed at helping sort of St. Joe, Elkhart, Marshall, Fulton and Kosciuszko counties, though we,
 think that largely most of the population will come from Elkhart and St. Joseph counties. And so that facility is in the works and ready to go. The eviction one is not something I've heard anything about yet. And so I'd love to hear more even about that. We can talk online about that, but that hasn't been on my radar necessarily as having been a problem yet.
 so far. On the small business side, I think one of the challenging pieces is there are 15,000 to 20,000 businesses in St. Joe County. So having the staff and resources to reach out to every one of them, we just don't have. But we're working to try to make sure that either they understand where the resources are, where to find them. So I would call it an army of folks, whether it be the city folks who are helping with the ISBDC, the
 Our Congress people are obviously trying to get that message out. The Chamber is trying to work on that. DTSB is trying to share that. So we really try to enlist an army of folks to make sure that we don't miss people there. And then obviously we work with our media partners too to make sure they let folks know
 that those are available as well too. And our hope, you know, our instruction to most of them has been call your bank first, because your bank is probably the most up to speed on this. If you don't have a regular banking partner, then there's some other great free resources available to folks out there. So that's, I would call it a work in progress. And then I'd say the county date was really aimed at
 what was the original guidance, I think, from the state. It's kind of a, I don't want to say it's a moving target, but I think, you know, the state has set some targets, usually a couple weeks out, hoping that we're ready to go. With what the governor shared today, I don't think we'll be quite ready yet, and I would anticipate that date gets extended for some period of time.
 You know, I appreciate that. The last thing that I would request, President Scott, is for either Vice President White, as far as the residential neighbors, and or with Lori Hammond, working with her, with community relations, if we can get together. Because I think it's still paramount for us to have an educational piece, not just the testing sites with the minorities, for people to understand better. Because it's hard for us to not social distance
 in some of the apartments and places that we live. So I think an educational piece, cause I know that Mark Carmel is also having a testing site on Wednesday, free to the public as well, but we need an education piece with that. And that's all I have. I'm sorry, I'm out of time. Okay, we'll get together on how we can proceed with committee meetings probably this way.
 and talk to Mr. Palmer, figure out how we can do that and continue the communication. So is there any other questions? Yes, this is Councilwoman Hammond. I have a question for Jeff Ray, please. Sure, go ahead. Mr. Ray, I'm wondering the city stopped scheduling leaf pickup as of the 10th of this month.
 And I know personally, I have had to address burning in my own neighborhood with neighbors that are just frustrated because the city is done picking up for the spring pickup. Is there any possibility to expanding the leaf pickup so we don't have people adding smoke and carcinogens into the air during this very difficult time?
 I'm happy to talk to the administration about that. That's not something that we've talked about previously. I know across the county, though, yard waste and trash has been an important issue because people are home so much. But yeah, I'm happy to talk more about that issue. President Scott, I have a few questions. This is Rachel Thomas Morgan. Sure, go ahead. Thank you.
 First of all, I just want to thank you, Mr. Ray, for the service that you're providing for our community and this new role that you're taking on. I have several just quick questions I'm going to tick off. The first one was if you could just a question I have lingering in the back of my mind, knowing that you are president and CEO of the chamber is.
 what role if any does your board have in in the work that you're in the work that you're doing in this particular role secondly I really appreciated last week's update
 that you provided on the chamber, that you pushed out from the chamber. And so glad to hear that that will be coming on a weekly basis, but also wondering if those weekly updates will be synced with the city's website in any way. And then also related to communications, some questions that I'm getting as an at-large member
 is frequency of either video updates or live updates, press conferences that you and the mayor may be having, and possibly a recommendation for more of those on a regular basis.
 And then finally, I appreciate you addressing quarantine sites for the homeless, but my question is really about if there's any conversation regarding temporary housing for the homeless during this time. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you very much. I'll roll through a couple of those real quick. So as far as my board, no role in this except for my board being willing for me to devote my full-time efforts to this. So we've shifted responsibilities within my organization to some other folks. Obviously, there's some things I can't totally get rid of, but they've been supportive of that. But
 they are not involved in any decision. In this case, it's like I work for Andy and Commissioner Castellani and the mayor, and I take my direction from them on what needs to be done and where the priority should be and what information they need communicated. And so that's kind of my folks, and they've just, mine have been willing to sort of say, hey, go do this. This is really important. If we can add value there, my staff has stepped up the,
 to help and I draft them where I need them. If just the, you know, I think, you know, we hear the term a lot, all hands on deck, and it really is, and any of us as a community. And I think we might all agree that the health department is somewhat under-resourced and so if we can help
 help them on some different things, or even the hospitals obviously are concerned with day-to-day care and if there are things that can help on there too. So I think that's an important piece. On the Sync to the City website, I think that's a great idea. We've just done one, but I think that'll be a priority to make sure that's available for all. And we'd love to grow that
 that list. We'd love you to share that list with whoever. And as you notice, we tried to sort of hit a lot of different categories in there just because, you know, some of the people you're dealing with are worried about their business and some are worried about their home and some are worried about their job and unemployment and different things. So we wanted to just have a kind of a central resource there. But yes, we'll make sure.
 that that happens. We do have a scheduled Friday press conference at one o'clock on Fridays. And so Deputy Director Mark Fox from the Health Department really kind of covers the clinical side. And then the mayor, commissioner and I participate at various times. Last week, for example, we included the congresswoman because of the desire to better understand some of those federal programs. But we can get you
 you know, the how to log in to that. You know, it's interesting between the president doing daily and the governor doing daily. There's not a lot of airtime, but we do think it's really critical that the community hears from the mayor and hears from Commissioner Castellani and the locals about, you know, kind of what's happening here locally, because I think we have a great story to tell in terms of how organized we've been here. And even Governor Holcomb and his
 a press conference earlier this week, sort of praised the efforts that were happening up here in North Central Indiana. And so we're excited about that. So watch for that on, at least on Fridays, but then I think on an as needed basis too. So for example, this story that started to come out
 early this morning or late last night related to the long-term care facility was one that we felt like we really need to make sure that information gets out there. So Mark Fox this afternoon did a brief press conference on that. So obviously we can, we certainly can develop a list of when those things are. I'm sorry, a list more of an email pane to sort of say, hey, these updates are happening this week, or we've scheduled a second one if you want to tune into those that we'll make sure we do that.
 And then the last one I had, the quarantine site for the homeless and then whether any temporary housing. We've not been talking as much on the temporary housing side. I think that the most immediate pressing need was on that quarantine site. And what do we do if someone tests positive and that we don't want to mix back into the and potentially impact the larger population. So there's a great deal of planning that's gone into just making that happen. We've
 been able to secure some funds that will help us pay for that facility as well. And then just, you know, kind of coordinate everything from how do we do meals to just even how do we, you know, what happens when somebody checked out and what do we need to do to make the room ready for somebody else that's in there. But I'll add the temporary housing on to our discussion list.
 Great. I really appreciate that, Mr. Ray. Thank you so much for answering all those questions. And I have been able to answer for some constituents that our mayor and the health officer has been doing weekly weekly press conferences. But I think I think it is just a matter of communication and letting people know how to access that. And and if we can continue to repost it somehow, be great. Thank you.
 Also, Councilperson Tomas Morgan, our intern for the council is going to be working with Jeffrey's office on this to make sure that she is pushing out to us that information and making sure that we have it and that we can spread it to other citizens. Fabulous. Thank you.
 Council member Warner, you have some questions. I have a few comments and a question. The comments I think are directed to you, Mr. Ray, and also the mayor and council leadership. One, I want to reiterate council member McBride's point about the
 Trying to get us regular updates to the council. I think through this the more information we can get the better even if it's just the form of an email or You know some kind of update to the council Weekly if not more and then again as
 Council Member Thomas Morgan said to the public, I've heard a lot through the last four weeks that they see the governor and the president every day, and we don't hear anything from the city. I think, I know part of that was kind of getting things up and going. I know Fridays aren't the best day, basically, for always to get, you know, the news to cover your story, but I would encourage
 The more information that, Mr. Ray, you can get out along with the mayor and Dr. Fox has done a good job kind of all along for the last four weeks, kind of trying to stay out in front of the story. And then I think, you know, as you said, the unemployment numbers are staggering. In the last three weeks, we've had over 14,300 unemployed.
 County residents file new unemployment claims and there's a lot more that are unemployed because of that and then I was fascinated by your numbers about the businesses that we could lose and what the Likelihood and probability of that is I think at some point they'll be at all hands on deck from a
 government, the state government, and the local governments trying to repair this damage. And so I'm very interested in kind of having that dialogue about jobs programs and how do we keep these small businesses alive and
 spur new small businesses, you know, once we kind of get through this peak of the wave here. Then last I've got, so testing, we've done very well on testing. At the beginning of this test, we're taking
 12 to 14 days to come back. We had employees that were sitting for 12 to 14 days waiting for test results, not working, unpaid. Now test results are about two to four days, which is drastic improvement. I did read in the Indiana Business Journal that Abbott Labs had 15
 devices that can do a test in five hours and 15 of those were given to the state. I was wondering if we've heard of that, if we know if one of those machines is coming to our community, you know, a test result within less than 24 hours would be fantastic. So I was wondering if you had heard about any of these machines from Abbott Labs coming to our community? Yeah.
 Yeah, I don't think we know that yet. We assume it will being one of the, you know, if you looked at the state, we're sort of one of the seven, you know, counties with the highest number of cases. And obviously it's sort of the center of this region. We would anticipate that, you know, it's funny. Originally it was 15, then it was five, then it was 15 again. And then it was the support material, the cartridges that went with it. They didn't have as plentiful amount of that material.
 We certainly have made the case that we need those up here. The State Department of Health just hasn't really decided yet on how that is going to be allocated. And I would anticipate this week some direction on that and that likely we would have one of those. Thank you. I appreciate the update. That's all I have, President Scott. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Warner. Any other questions?
 This is Karen. I had a number of questions and many of which of those questions have been either asked or statements made by Councilwoman McBride and Councilmember Warner. I do have two questions. One, the information that is being reported out is countywide. Is there any way we can drill that down so that we know exactly what's happening within the city of South Bend?
 When I look at the information, can you hear me? Yep. Okay. I was asking, is there any way that that county information could be drilled down in terms of what's happening in South Bend? Yeah, to date it hasn't been. I'll ask about that. It may not be, you know. I do think, though, that obviously it's, I mean, I think they know where it's coming from. I just haven't seen that sort of in any kind of report yet, but I'll definitely ask that question.
 And then the other question I have is in terms of any food disparities. Have you had a sense or you hear anything from different areas in regards to, you know, making sure that our citizens that they have the food that they need to move forward at this time? You know, we have different avenues, you know, the food bank. And I do know that the city gave monies to support the various food banks.
 But if you have a sense for them where they're at, do they feel that they have enough to move forward from this point? Yeah, I think that's a work in progress. I think that Aaron and the Venues, Parks and Arts team have done a terrific job on the helping on the food side. I'd also mention that United Way in particular and the generosity from the community has raised over a million dollars to help with some of those challenges. I haven't, you know, heard great information.
 much on the specific side, obviously with so many people out of work with the uncertainty about when they might go back to work. There's obviously a great deal of concern. And I think even as the weeks go,
 There are going to be more and more. I don't know if you saw the news tonight even. Four Winds had to furlough a number of their employees. Obviously, they're closed for a while. The numbers will continue to drive. I would say that the tension with the rise over the next couple of weeks, hopefully, things like that have been put in place with what VPA is doing and United Way.
 we're ready to handle that. The food bank's done a nice job as well. And then other local treasurers like Cultivate, Cultivate Culinary are doing a nice job. Obviously they're not getting the banquet food like they used to, but those are some great examples there. And I would say, help us
 If you hear of those things, please be eyes and ears for us as well, too, and help us understand needs maybe out there that aren't being met or challenges that you're hearing of. We'd love to take those back. Okay, great. Thank you. And I'll just email you some additional questions or concerns. Hey, Karen. Thank you.
 Any other questions? Karen? Yes. This is Henry, and I wanted to ask you and Sharon, did you guys find that website that Tim sent us or sent me on an email to be helpful with your questions that you're asking? Sure.
 Yes, some, but still, I think that I looked at those and I've been sending helpful websites and also looking at the various posters and, you know, links. But, you know, I think having a conversation is important and you get to hear from other council members. But Tim did send me that information. Yeah. So do you think it will be proven on the on the end of the council to develop a piece? Yes.
 that they can, I guess, market to the rest of the community, the community that we serve with the information that Jeff is giving us right now and the information that we know about this coronavirus and testing sites and just the things that we are asking updates on. So the council itself can send out a press release or develop a poster or do both in order to make sure that the communication is being aired out, not only to us, but also to the people that we serve.
 Yeah, I think it'd be helpful. I think that would be a great idea. I think that would be great to get partnered with an intern with doing that as well. That would be great.
 Yep, that's the plan. The only thing I just might suggest, again, just on that, especially on the testing piece, and I think there's a sensitivity because I think everybody's got tested that needs to get tested, but facilities aren't set up yet for the people who just want to be tested to go get tested.
 Right. Yeah. You really need to demonstrate some systems. So we just want to be careful of whatever message goes out, helps them to understand that. Boy, yeah, please. If you're symptomatic, we absolutely want you to do this. And and you can do that at places like more Brannick or you mentioned Mount Carmel. And I think there's some some other options, you know, working in that general area as well.
 Yeah, I don't think we need to reinvent the information coming out, but the way to disseminate it and spread it to parts of our city that might not be in tune with everything else that's going on from the health department. Yeah.
 President Scott, I just, this is Rachel Tomas Morgan again. I just want to piggyback on your comment and because I appreciate that. I really do think in times like this, it's important to have one unified message and that the information is consistent. And so the ways that we can, you know, help circulate what has already been developed.
 in or push out your weekly updates or whatever else I Or and the mayor's I think that would be the best course of action. Thank you. Thank you Anything else from this council for mr. Ray just wrote real quick president Scott Yes, sir. So I
 First, just a quick comment. And Mr. Ray, thank you for being with us tonight and giving us an update. When Mayor Mueller told me that you were going to step into this role, I was extremely comforted and just knowing your capability and ability.
 And so just thank you for stepping in like this. My question, my only question, I think one thing that we didn't touch on that tonight was contact tracing. How are we doing on contact tracing, if at all? I know Governor Holcomb's press conference today talked about, right, I mean, we're doing a lot of things here in this first quarter. Second quarter is gonna be heavily reliant on contact tracing to make sure we contain this thing.
 Yeah, I would just suggest we're in the early stages of this. I think this was really starting to get traction at the end of last week. And so we've had some initial discussion about just the tools and resources that are available to us here to really help with that. And it is on the agenda this week. You know, sort of at the end of the week, I kind of put a list of what are the things that we need to make sure we talk about next week. And that definitely is on our list this week. And so though I don't have enough much to report now, I would think that we're going to
 by the end of the week or even the first of next week, I'll have a much better feel for that. We started to study, for example, what other communities are doing, how it's working, that kind of thing. And then we've been working on just this thought process of how do we...
 You know, how do we do it or how do we even employ, you know, some of the brainpower that we have around here to help us make sure that that we do that effectively? But, yeah, so just early stages. But definitely, you know, it's kind of interesting because, you know, we sort of have the critical immediate needs and then kind of the long term, you know, also on our list, you know, related to how to get the economy back in order and how do we make sure we don't have that?
 second spike and how do we track that? So definitely on our list of things that we'll talk more about in the future. Great. Yeah. Thank you.
 And just since you mentioned the economy, the economic piece again, just working for a financial institution, I can tell you we've all been quickly becoming payroll protection plan experts and fielding calls. The demand is astronomical. So I'm not sure what that means. I know we hear about a second wave coming, but thank you for all that you're doing to point our small businesses in the right direction on those resources.
 And I'll just mention it, Jake, since you mentioned it. So we do anticipate Congress coming back together. They're kind of at an impasse on this. We're thinking it may be early May before they potentially get back together. But we do know that demand will far out.
 or I'll exceed the dollars that are available. So, you know, kind of our daily conversation is with our congressional representatives to make sure they go back. We've also identified what we think are some deficiencies in some of those programs that have left behind some small businesses that thought that maybe they were going to benefit more in the EIDL program, for example. So, you know, a piece of our effort is just, you know, kind of lobbying on those things to make sure that folks who thought they were going to take advantage really can benefit.
 especially if another wave comes and we fix some language there. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. No, I want to ask a couple of questions, not necessarily Jeff. I think Jeff has done a great job and thank you, Jeff, for participating. I want to ask that, that there is a council member that participates on that County task force.
 I think Rachel made it mention that the conversation or the message needs to be in unison. And I agree. I think that we all need to speak clearly in one voice. However, the county is not as diverse as the city is.
 And so the county is not necessarily interfacing with the cities, so the information is being disseminated through city outlets or city council people for that, for example. So it will be prudent on our end to have a member of the South Bend City Council participate on a task force. And also that we do disseminate our own information so that our constituents who are in more of a different
 a different level of life in the city than there are in the county. So I think it will be gracious on our end to make sure we are including everybody that we can. We just can't say, hey, county delivered this poster and we're gonna put it out. That doesn't work. Most of the businesses that Jeff is talking about, a lot of them are in downtown South Bend. That's not a county issue. That's a city issue. And so we need to be mindful of the people that we are serving.
 Understood, Henry. Yeah, we can talk to the county and get more participation with that. Okay, with that, thank you, Mr. Ray, for joining us. We appreciate it. We look forward to updates from you as the Fridays roll along and anything else that comes out during the middle of the week. We appreciate that. With that, we're going to move on to the rest of our council meeting, so thank you.
 Mr. Palmer, I think, refresh my memory, we give reading to the first readings and then we send them to the Committee of the Whole as the motion, I believe? Correct. Okay. Miss Jones, would you please give first reading to 1620? Yes.
 1620. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council in Indiana, adding Chapter 5, Article 10, Section 5-125 to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 5-38A to 5-38B.
 5-96B and 5-97.5 for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from Coronavirus disease 2019. I move that this bill be sent to the Committee of the Whole for second or sorry for, I guess, for second reading here tonight.
 Thank you. I second that motion. Thank you, Mr. Warner. All in favor, we'll do roll call. Ms. Jones? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Paschke? Aye. Council Member Nesgatsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President White? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye.
 Aye. Your microphone is going out at times. So it's fine. I got it. Aye. Okay. Council Member McBride. Aye. President Scott. Ms. Jones, when you face your computer, we can hear you better than when you're looking away. And I know you're juggling paperwork. Yeah. Okay. I'll keep that in mind. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Jones, would you please give first reading to 1720? Yes.
 1720, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 2, Article 6, Section 2-84.17 to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend municipal code sections
 2-84.13, 2-84.14, and 2-84.15 for 60 days due to the declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. I move that 1720 also be sent to our Committee of the Whole for hearing this evening. Seconded.
 Thank you. All in favor, Ms. Jones, please roll call. Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member Nizagowski. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. Would you please give first reading to 1820? 1820. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 21, Article 13, Section 21-12.04D to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 21-12.04B3 and 21-12.04B4.
 for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. Thank you, Ms. Jones. I'll entertain a motion. I move that 1820 also be sent to our Committee of the Whole for our reading and hearing this evening. Second. Ms. Jones, roll call. Yes.
 Council Member Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teschke. Aye. President Scott, nine ayes. Thank you.
 I entertain a motion to join the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. All in favor, Ms. Jones. Okay. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Warner. I think we might have lost him. Okay. I'm not sure how to mark that. Councilmember Teska. Councilmember Naskowski. President Scott. Aye. Would you please call Councilmember Warner.
 Council Member Warner. If I may interject, I'm sorry. Troy just got booted out and he's coming back in. So I'm working with him to try to get back in. I'm sorry. Oh, okay. Okay, we'll hold. Believe it or not, his pet decided to restart. So he is restarting it right now. Oh, really? No, I don't.
 there's mr warner on his dial-up all right uh all of a sudden i decided i needed to do an update and shut down and kicked me out so i'm an eye okay nine eyes it's a record long eye okay um miss mcbride i'll turn it over you for committee hall
 Thank you so much. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with the public that the bills that have been given a second, that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed
 and the results of their discussion. Ms. Jones, would you please give Bill 1620 a second reading? Yes. 1620, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 5, Article 10, Section 5-125,
 South Bend Municipal Code to suspend municipal code sections 5-38A to 5-96B and 5-97.5 for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency. Thank you so much. Is there a committee report and a petitioner? Yes, ma'am.
 The, uh, bill 1620 was, uh, held a hearing in the health and public safety committee earlier this evening and comes out of that committee with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much. Um, I forgot to ask you to state your name and address, sir. Mr. Warner. Uh, yes, my name is Troy. Well, I'm not, this isn't, I was just giving the committee report, uh,
 We will start with petitioner. Who's the petitioner for 1620? Council member Tomas Morgan, is it? 1620 is the animal welfare. No, that's 1720. 1620. No, 1620 is the animal welfare. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. It's okay. Okay.
 I apologize, I got the numbers mixed up. So this is a bill that basically suspends a couple of requirements of the Animal Welfare Commission. Those requirements are that the commission holds a hearing within 10 days of it making a determination that a citizen's
 animal is vicious or dangerous this would suspend that requirement during the stay-at-home order and then the second determination is that the Animal Control Welfare Commission must hear any appeal within 10 days this would also suspend that requirement during the period of the stay-at-home order
 My name is Troy Warner. I have offices in the county city building downtown on the fourth floor. Thank you so much. Committee, is there any questions for the petitioner? No questions. No questions. Any other council members? If I may, Councilman Warner, can you tell me what happens to the animals in the interim if a public decision cannot be made?
 I do not know the answer to that question. Mr. Warner, can I chime in on that? Certainly. If they're being held at Animal Care Control or all staffs does not change. So if they're being held, they're held until there's a hearing and Animal Care Control would take care of them. If they're with whomever, they stay with whomever until the hearings are done.
 Okay, so none of the animals would be destroyed prior to the hearing. No, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you for your clarification. Now, at this time, Attorney Palmer, I'm not going to public comments, or am I? No, you're not. Thank you so much. At this time, I will send this to the council and asking for them to entertain motion for passage.
 make a motion to send 1620 to the full council favorably. Second. Ms. Jones, could you please move the roll call? Yes. Council Member Hammond. You should. Vice President White. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Council Member Nisgatsky. Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. President Scott, nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 1620 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Mrs. Jones, would you please give Bill 1720 a second reading? Yes. 1720.
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 2, Article 6, Section 2-84.17 to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 2-84.13, 2-84.14, and 2-84.15 from the Council of the City of Indiana.
 for 60 days due to the declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. Thank you so much. There was a committee report for the zoning and annexation committee and the petitioner I would turn it over to President Tim Scott. I think this 1720 is the one that we heard in community investment.
 Correct. Yes. 1720. I'm 1820. All right. So the community investment committee met a little while ago and we bring 1720 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I am also the presenter, Jake Teshka, 2419 Cheshire Drive. And...
 much like what was said in committee, this bill is similar to the others that we're hearing tonight in that we have to delay some procedural and deadline things to accommodate the stay-at-home order. In this case, we are referencing certain requirements
 tax abatement requirements or requirements of businesses who have received tax abatements to report on an annual basis back to the city. And we have in this ordinance decided to delay that for a period of 60 days. Thank you so much. Council members, are there any questions or comments regarding Bill 1720? If not, at this time, I would like to need someone to entertain a motion, please, for passage.
 I'll make a motion to send 1720 to the full council favorably. I will second that motion. All in favor, please roll, Clark Jones. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Aye. Council Member Noskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Thank you so much. Ms. Jamalz, will you please give Bill 1820 a second reading? Yes.
 Public Bill 1820, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 21, Article 13, Section 21-12.04D to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 21-12.04B3.
 and 21-12.04b6g for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. Thank you so much. There was a committee report and for the zoning and annexation this afternoon and I will turn it over to our petitioner, President Tim Scott. Thank you, Ms. McBride.
 Tim Scott, 711 Forest Avenue, along with Sharon McBride as sponsors of this bill. This, like the other two before us, suspends Historic Preservation Commission from doing any C of A's, which is the certificate appropriateness, or having any hearing meetings related to historic preservation. Again, keeping all.
 meetings and gatherings of people.
 from happening while the stay-at-home order is in place or the local disaster emergency. So, again, this is the same as before. I'd like to thank Councilperson Hammond for bringing up the question about there is a historic preservation appeal hearing that we were supposed to hear about a month ago. That also is put on hold. I know the residents also wanted delays.
 on this as well, but that is all put on hold until we resend this bill. And that is my presentation, and any questions? Thank you so much. If there's no other questions or comments, I will entertain a motion regarding Bill 1820. Is there a motion? I'd like to make a motion to send Bill 1820 to full counsel with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second.
 Ms. Jones, the roll call please. Yes. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teschke. Aye. Council Member Nosgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. President Scott.
 Nine ayes. I will entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. I second. All those in favor? I need the roll call. I'm sorry. Okay. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. President Scott. Aye. Motion carried. Thank you so much. Thank you. We are now back in full council. Ms. Jones, would you please give the reading to 1620. 1620.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 5, Article 10, Section 5-125 to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 5-38A2, 5-96B, and 5-97.5.
 for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. I'll take a motion. I'll make a motion for passage. Second. Ms. Jones, roll call. Yes. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Tachefa? Aye. Councilmember Naskowski?
 Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember McBride. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Miss Jones, would you give your third reading to 1720?
 1720, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 2, Article 6, Section 2-84.17 to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend Municipal Code Sections 2-84.13, 2-84.14, and 2-84.15.
 60 days due to the declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019 move for passage of bill 1720 Miss Jones roll call member Tesco. All right council member Neskowski Councilmember Thomas Morgan Council member Hammond vice president white I Councilmember Davis
 Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes. Thank you. 1820, please. 1820, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 21, Article 13, Section 21-12.04D to the South Bend Municipal Code to suspend municipal code sections...
 21-12.04 and 21-12.04 for the duration of any stay at home or similar order or any declaration of a local disaster emergency resulting from coronavirus disease 2019. Move for passage of Bill 1820. Second. Ms. Jones-Rocco. Council Member Nozgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Tashka. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes. Thank you. We'll move on to resolutions. Ms. Jones, would you please read 20-06. 20-06. I move that the Board of Trustees, including the Board of Trustees, be present at the meeting. I move that the Board of Trustees, including the Board of Trustees, be present at the meeting. I move that the Board of Trustees, including the Board of Trustees, be present at the meeting. I move that the Board of Trustees, including the Board of Trustees, be present at the meeting.
 Resolution 2006, a resolution on behalf of the South Bend Common Council consenting to the renewal or continuance of a declaration of a local disaster emergency until any order or proclamation lawfully terminates the local disaster emergency or the passage of a resolution by the Common Council revoking this consent. Thank you. Is there a committee report? I'm the sponsor of the bill, President Scott. Shall I comment? No.
 Well, if we can get the committee report. Did we lose Mr. Warner again? The Health and Public Safety Committee held a hearing earlier this evening, and the bill comes from the committee with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Warner. Ms. Tomas Morgan, you can go ahead and start. Your name and address. Rachel Tomas Morgan, reporting here from 114 Chapin Street.
 As we know, in our last council meeting, we passed a resolution for the renewal or continuance of the declaration of local disaster emergency until the next full council meeting. Given the continuing nature of this pandemic and the significance of staying vigilant to the current mitigation efforts currently in place,
 This resolution 20-06 extends this period of time until there is a lawful termination of the local disaster emergency or until this council revokes this consent. Thank you, Ms. Tomas Morgan. Are there any questions from council? Seeing or hearing none. Yeah, I was trying to get in. I'm sorry. I was trying to get in. A question, maybe you can answer this.
 Is there any way that we can put anything in place so that when the ban is lifted by the governor, everything goes back to what we're used to? I can only imagine going to another meeting once the ban is lifted and we have to go back to all of these actions to recreate or to restart business as usual, unless I'm wrong. Oh, we agree.
 Oh, go ahead, Ms. Morgan. Oh, I was going to say I was going to defer to Attorney Palmer, but I understand that that's what this resolution actually does state, that it would terminate. Okay.
 when there's lawful termination of the So, well, then it's up to you then, Rachel. So everything that we're doing right now, like opening up and allowing the administration to work without counsel, all those things per your resolution, once it's voted through for the final time, we'll make sure that it goes back to normal or business as usual. So that's what we're voting on. All right.
 because i didn't understand it that way i'm sorry i have some um feedback i'm having a hard time hearing you davis but this this this resolution i i believe is read that is understood in that way
 If I could, with the exception of the tax abatement, which only extends the suspension for 60 days, everything else goes back to the way it was upon termination of either the local disaster emergency or the stay-at-home order, whichever would be later.
 Okay, I wasn't clear and I read through it and I guess I just didn't understand it properly. So I got it. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Any other questions? Hearing none. I'll entertain a motion for 20.06. So moved. Second. Ms. Jones, roll call please. Council member Tomas Morgan.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teschke. Councilmember Nowszkowski. President Scott, nine ayes. Thank you.
 I want to thank everybody for attending this. I think we made history, actually. I think this is the first time the city council's ever met virtually, and I hope we don't have to do it again. Everybody stay healthy and safe, and your family and the entire city. So with that, we are adjourned. Thank you all.
 Thank you. Thank you, Clark. Goodbye, everybody. Thank the clerks. Bye, everybody. Good night, everybody. Bye-bye. Thanks to the scones in your clerk's office for helping out. Yeah. Especially Bianca because I was stuck. Thank you. Okay. Thank you so much. And City IT. Everybody stay safe. Thank you all. And safe, okay? Have a good night. You too. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.