I would like to call Monday, May 22nd, 2024 Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Trotto, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations.
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on the specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so is listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name, address, as those are required for all speaking in at in-person and online council meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. My name is, full name, and I live at address, and I would like to speak for or against agenda item. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you.
 At this time, we would like to welcome Pastor Thorley James of the Sovereign Praise Fellowship to come for the invocation. Welcome and thank you so much. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you with hearts of gratitude for our leaders you have placed in our local government. We recognize that they bear a great responsibility in guiding our community with wisdom, integrity, and compassion.
 As they carry out their duties, we ask for your divine guidance to be upon them. Grant them the wisdom to discern what is right and just, the courage to make the difficult decisions, and the humility to seek counsel from those they serve. May your love and compassion fill their hearts, enabling them to govern with fairness and empathy, always considering the needs of all members of our community.
 We pray for unity among our leaders, that they may work harmoniously for the betterment of this city. Help them set aside personal interests and agendas and to prioritize the common good above all else. Through the prophet Isaiah, you remind them that they are to learn to do good.
 Seek justice, reprove the rootless, defend the orphaned, and plead for the widow. Lord, we lift up our leaders to you, knowing that you hold them in your hands, strengthen them in times of challenge, comfort them in times of personal and professional difficulty, and inspire them with your wisdom of justice and peace.
 We also bring before you our law enforcement officers who serve as guardians of peace and justice in our community. We are grateful for their selfless dedication and unwavering commitment to protect and serve. Grant them your protection as they carry out their duties each day, facing risks and challenges with courage and resolve.
 Strengthen their resolve to uphold the principles of fairness, integrity, and compassion in their interactions with all whom they encounter. And at the end of each tour, return them safely to their loved ones. Bless those who serve us with your grace, O Lord, and may they be beacons of your light in this city. In your holy name we pray. Amen.
 Thank you. Clerk Tirado, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Dr. Davis? Present. Councilmember Lee? Present. Councilmember Warner? Present. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson? Present. Councilmember White? Councilmember Tomas-Morgan? Present.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Present. Vice President Noskovsky. Present. President McBride. Present. Can you please check one more time for Councilor Karen L. White online? She told me she was going to go. You don't see her? Okay. She told me she was going to go. Okay. Thank you. At this time, we will have a report from the subcommittee on minutes. I have minutes from 2024 and 2023, and I will read them separately. Okay.
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the April 8, 2024 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Motion to approve. Second. The move and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried.
 TO THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BEND. OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BEND. OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BEND. THE SUBCOMMITTEE HAS INSPECTED THE SUBCOMMITTEE HAS INSPECTED THE SUBCOMMITTEE HAS INSPECTED THE MINUTES OF THE MARCH 27, 2023 THE MINUTES OF THE MARCH 27, 2023 THE MINUTES OF THE MARCH 27, 2023 AND THE MAY 22, 2023. AND THE MAY 22, 2023.
 meeting of the Common Council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. This recommendation for approval is made by recognizing that three current members of the council were not seated in 2023, and such will be abstaining from any formal approval of old minutes. Thank you. Move for approval. Second. We move and second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Thank you. At this time, we will have reports from the city.
 we'll start with um community investment or is it a joint presentation yeah we each have separate presentations but we can go in whatever order you prefer whichever you like great uh caleb bauer i'm a director of community investment offices on the 14th floor of this building i there's a couple parks adjacent projects here that you'll have you'll know the the parks project they're related to but uh i will pull up my screen here briefly
 So as requested, I'm just going to give a status update on a number of major projects, either recently completed, in progress, or yet to begin construction. I just put these together in alphabetical order. So I'll point out which ones are all publicly funded, public works projects versus economic development projects as we go through.
 So first one, starting with A, Advantix Development Corp. This was a 50-unit scattered site affordable housing development that was awarded tax credits through the state of Indiana's low-income housing tax credit competitive award program. And work has been ongoing with our team working with Advantix. It's an Evansville-based nonprofit. They plan to break ground this summer, and all of the units would be completed by the end of next year.
 These are scattered site located on 37 vacant parcels throughout the West Side, primarily in the NNN, although there are a few parcels in Kennedy Park and LaSalle Park as part of this project. Angela Boulevard improvements. These are kicking off, actually just began on April 15th, but you'll see, you had seen the press release about traffic being redirected on the western portion of Angela, phase one of Angela Boulevard improvements.
 But the full length of Angela from 933 and then all the way east of the University of Notre Dame will have a streetscape improvement project this summer. The University of Notre Dame actually is funding the majority of that project, $2.3 million of the $3.3 million cost.
 The remaining cost is connecting. You can see here where the sidewalk ends, we're heading west on Angela. 933 is around the bend here. And so the city portion of the project will add a path all the way to 933, which connects to the Phase 2 of the Coal Line Trail, which was also just completed this year.
 cultivate culinary this was a project that the redevelopment Commission provided land owned by the commission off of Prairie Avenue just Southwest of ignition Park construction's underway you can see the facility photo of the facility here from a few weeks ago um it's an expansion of their cold storage facility new headquarters for the non-profit
 construction should be completed this summer. And then I have highlighted here and will on the future economic development projects, what were the city pieces of support? As you know, different projects have different components.
 different ways that we support them. There is abatements, there's direct funding support through development agreements, and then there is land sometimes. And so this was one where we did provide the land through the Redevelopment Commission, and then also direct funding support from the Redevelopment Commission. Total investment here is $10 million.
 The Drury's cleanup is ongoing. EPA mobilized last year and they completed remediation of asbestos and other known contaminants on the site, mercury that was inside some of the electrical
 electrical units inside of the building and some other contaminants. So that is a certified clean site through EPA. Now it's not clean and you look here, there's still plenty of rubble. There's still plenty of foundations from the demolition of the original brewery. And so there's still a lot of cleanup left, but environmentally this site is in good shape. We're now moving forward with what we're calling phase one of the cleanup.
 beyond what the EPA has done, which is demolishing all of the collapsed outbuildings. There's a number of outbuildings on the site. And then working to move through some of the rubble you see here in the foreground of this aerial photo, as well as some scrap metal that EPA left on the site, actually a large pile of scrap metal. EPA wasn't able to sell, so we'll be looking to get rid of that.
 That's phase one. There will be future phases. The foundations you see in the northern end of this photo are relatively deep, and so that will take a second phase to remove those and then remove the larger bottling house that you see on the right-hand side of this photo.
 Diamond View and Stadium Flats, this is another affordable housing project that is paired with a market rate project. So construction is expected to begin this summer on the 60-unit affordable housing building, which you can see an image of here.
 There would be two 45-unit market rate buildings that would come at a later date, hopefully breaking ground this year, but those are a little more in flux with the developer as far as the exact date of groundbreaking. It could be next year as well.
 The city did provide support through the land that was owned by the redevelopment commission, direct funding support through a development agreement and a tax abatement from the common council. So thank you for your support there. Total investment between all three buildings is $37.3 million. The downtown Notre Dame trail, this is a multi-use path to link the downtown to the university.
 Construction is planned to be completed this year, and this is another partnership project, so this is not all publicly funded. The University of Notre Dame, the City of South Bend, and the Hotel Motel Tax Board are splitting three ways the total $11.5 million cost of this trail.
 It'll connect into the LaSalle streetscape, which already has a multi-use path incorporated in it. I'll show a photo of this LaSalle streetscape here in a moment. But we're excited about this trail project moving forward. And like I said, construction all transpiring this year.
 Five Corners just had a groundbreaking last week, 108-unit apartment building. This is just east of the Trader Joe's on State Road 23. This only had a tax abatement to support it, so there was no direct funding support, no land provided, but there was a tax abatement. And thanks to the council for your support of this project. It's a $31.5 million investment.
 for winsfield you know about this one um addition of the second deck expansion of seating new clubhouse uh right now we're finalizing design construction is expected to begin immediately in the fall of 2024 right at the end of this baseball season it would be a total investment of 45 million construction would transpire through the next off season as well so two off seasons of construction but we're very excited about this project
 And thank you to the council for your support in making it possible. Indiana Dinosaur Museum. Construction is wrapping up here on the Dinosaur Museum and the expanded production space for the South Bend Chocolate Company. It will become their new production facility as they move off of Sample Street. It will open this summer. And this did receive a tax abatement and direct funding support from the city. Total investment of $14 million.
 the lasalle avenue streetscape here's a photo of this just recently you've probably driven by and seen it's largely completed though some restriping will be occurring here in april and may those are the last pieces for this streetscape project added bump outs improved pedestrian connections protected bike lane and significantly expanded the on-street parking options on lasalle avenue uh total investment of seven million dollars
 And this was funded through the Neighborhood Improvement Bond, which utilizes tax increment financing revenues. Liberty Tower Phase 4, this is 90 new apartment units being constructed on the 18th through 26th floors of Liberty Tower, as well as a rooftop lounge bar planned for the seventh floor that would be open to the public in that people could come and patronize that bar, even if they weren't staying at the hotel or living in the apartments.
 This did receive funding support from the city as well as a tax abatement from the Common Council. Total investment of $14.7 million on top of more than $50 million that's been invested in the Liberty Tower over the last 15 years.
 Lyndon Avenue streetscape Jordan will talk about where we're at and I know many of you were at the steel signing for the Martin Luther King Jr. Dream Center, but as well we have a streetscape project going on immediately adjacent to the center adding bump outs improving pedestrian connections on Lyndon Avenue constructions underway looking to complete that streetscape project in June.
 Mishawaka Avenue streetscape. This is another project from the neighborhood improvement bond. You might have recalled it at the time. We haven't given a big update on it yet. We're still in design on this project. Here is a concept plan that's still subject to change, but.
 What this would do is take it down from four lanes and a turn lane down to one lane in either direction and a dedicated turn lane and improve street parking capacity as well as pedestrian connections on Mishawaka Avenue. We would hope to begin construction next spring, so a year from now, look to see that project moving forward. That would be a $3 million investment.
 Mar main renovations. This is a remodel of 120 units that are substantially completed. There are a handful of units yet to be finished, primarily because the owners have been working with tenants as they move
 in and out or as they complete units, they'll move residents into a renovated unit. So they're nearly completed there. And 48 of the units in the Marmain apartments are set aside for voucher holders, housing choice voucher holders,
 with an agreement, a long-term MOU with the South Bend Housing Authority. This did receive direct funding support from the Redevelopment Commission. Total investment is 4.95 million in moving that forward. And I'll note the total investments I'm showing here are primarily private investment, though if it is on a public works project, that is all city dollars.
 Madison Lifestyle District and the Beacon Patient Tower. So I'll go over the patient tower first. This one is the only project that I have two slides for.
 But the Beacon Patient Tower is shown here. This is the new 10-story, 300,000 square foot expansion of Memorial Hospital. It's the largest construction project in the history of the hospital. It will grow the total number of acute care beds from 249 to 302. But I'll note, that's 302 new acute care beds. All of the existing 249 and the existing patient tower will go away.
 Though it's a net gain of only 53, there's 302 new patient rooms that will come online. All the rooms will be new in the new patient tower.
 City support on this is direct funding, and then this is something where we're still in the middle of working out the details on this project and the Madison Lifestyle District. So you can expect that we would bring a tax evasion request for your consideration on the Lifestyle District, which I'll show on the next slide, as part of this combined project.
 Why they're combined is that the parking, the public parking that's being constructed is shared and would be used by both Beacon and the Madison Lifestyle District mixed use district, which I'll show on the next slide. But total combined investment is more than $330 million, the largest redevelopment project in downtown's history.
 And so that takes us to the other part of the project, which is the Madison Lifestyle District, which is about $100 million plus redevelopment of the two blocks south of Memorial Hospital. To geolocate yourself, you can see McDonald's here on the right side of the screen, St. Joe Station at the corner of La Salle and Michigan at the bottom of the screen. And then in the middle here, you can see what's proposed
 which would include more than 240 apartments, including workforce housing units. It would include office and service retail space, wrapped parking garages with over 925 spaces that serve both the Memorial Hospital's needs as far as the expansion of their full-time employee base, as well as the residences and a 100-key hotel here.
 So, like I said, this will be coming back to Council in the coming months for your consideration on a real property tax abatement.
 The Mayor Stephen J. Licky Coal Line Trail Phase 2 and 3. Phase 2 was just completed, and the rail bridge over the St. Joe River is open, and it's a really great trail connection to 933 and then all the way down past Portage, all the way to Lincoln Way West. Phase 3 is under design. That would take us from Lincoln Way West down to the...
 the new Dream Center corner. And we're hoping for construction to kick off on that in 2026. Momentum, this is an entrepreneurial hub in the downtown, which includes a commissary kitchen and renovation of the Soma apartments to the south.
 Multi-year construction timeline. The SOMA apartments renovation is underway. Momentum's redevelopment has not begun yet as far as construction, but this was city-owned land, did receive an abatement, and we may consider a development agreement for the commissary kitchen part of this project. That has not come before the Redevelopment Commission at this point, but total investment committed at this point is $6 million.
 The Monroe is another LIHTC project, 60-unit total project, with 46 of those units being income-qualified affordable units and then 14 market rate units. This is at the corner of Monroe and Michigan, and it did receive city support through the provision of land, direct funding support, and a tax abatement from council. Thank you for your support for that. It really makes all the difference on the low-income housing tax credit projects.
 there are points that can be there are points that any project needs to be awarded those credits from the state of Indiana. They're competing against projects across the state and one of the very important categories in that point tallying is what kind of local support there is for a project. So when the council approves an abatement,
 or the redevelopment commission provides land those are important pieces of support that translate into points that help that project get awarded the tax credit so thank you for for your support of all the light tech projects we've had before you
 Olive and Western redevelopment. This one just broke ground earlier this month. This is at the former P&A site, and this is a new grocery store, restaurant, and two tenant spaces on the northwest corner of Olive and Western. Construction is expected to be completed by the end of this year. That's an aggressive timeline from the team, and the city did provide the land on which this development is being constructed. Total estimated investment, $2.5 million.
 South Bend Thrive, this is a partnership with South Bend Heritage Foundation. This is co-located with the YSB Center for Youth Success on the east side. If you drive, well, you can't drive on the site right now, but if you had driven on the site to access the self-storage where there used to be a target next to the site,
 South Bend Thrive is on the northern end of the site and then the southern end of the site is where the YSB Center for Use Success is. South Bend Thrive is a 54 unit affordable housing complex. You can see a rendering here. The city did provide direct funding and is building the supporting infrastructure, so the street network and utility network that will serve both this site and the YSB site. Total investment here 14.5 million.
 the 87 uh this is a toll brothers project uh just east of the university of notre dame uh you could see a photo here of of what it looks like today uh construction is underway on 335 rental apartment units and 26 townhomes a number of the townhomes do have occupancy permits so some of those are occupied none of the apartment buildings do yet but um
 completion is planned before August of 2024. I put this on here because this one did not require any city incentives, no abatements, no land. And so it's an exciting project, more than $100 million in private investment.
 And that will be a huge boost on the revenue side for the city going forward. So really excited about this project. Again, our team was involved in plan review, obviously on the permitting side, but we did not have to deploy any incentives to move this project forward.
 the hill this is a redevelopment of the former st joseph hospital office tower into 69 apartment units construction is completed on this building and they are leasing at this point this did receive direct funding support through development agreement and a tax abatement total investment of 14 million dollars
 United Way, One Roof Southeast, and future Far Northwest sites. So I put this on here. I know it's been a year, more than a year since the Southeast Center opened. It opened in 2022, but there's news there in that now it does house El Campito's pre-K facility as well. Our team is working hard with United Way to locate a site in the Far Northwest neighborhood for the next One Roof.
 And so we're working on that. That's been on the wish list for a while. So continuing to work through that with the United Way team. Citi did provide direct funding for the Southeast Center, total investment of $6 million.
 for bio biorefinery phase one is planned to break ground this summer to add a portion of the new digester tanks at the south bend ethanol plant which will be expanded to include the generation of renewable natural gas this is a multi-year construction timeline for the full scope of this project it will cause south and ethanol to be the first biorefinery in indiana and one of the largest in the midwest
 This did receive a tax abatement from Council. Thank you for your support for this project. Total investment from Vrbio is more than $230 million over all the phases of this project.
 Walker Field, Ewing Avenue improvements. This was another project funded through the Neighborhood Improvement Bond. Here's a rendering of the trail connection on the south side of Ewing Ave. As well, you can see kind of in the background, pedestrian improvements to slow traffic and improve the connectivity between Walker Field and Rum Village would include a new pedestrian entryway to Rum Village Park.
 Currently under engineering design, looking to start construction either in late this construction season or beginning of the 2025 construction season. $2.5 million for this project. That's all public dollars in this one.
 Use Service Bureau, I mentioned that it's co-located with South Bend Thrive. This is the new Center for Use Success for YSB Construction. They broke ground last year. You can see they're moving quite along this from a couple of months ago. So it's actually got siding on a portion of the building at this point.
 The new center will expand the safe station shelter, so more shelter spots for youth experiencing homelessness, and then allow for expansion of programming. And really, it consolidates all of YSB's different services that are located throughout the city into one center at one site. The city did provide direct funding support through the Redevelopment Commission and supporting infrastructure for this project. Total investment of $9 million.
 And that's my run through of a number of major projects. There's lots of other projects moving, too. I couldn't put everything on the list, but it's been an exciting time and our team's hard at work moving projects forward. And I think we'll have a lot of exciting ones coming before you in the near future as well. So I'll turn it over to Jordan Gathers from BPX.
 Thank you, Caleb. I think I'll take a pause for a minute, Caleb, if you don't mind. Oh, yeah. And I'm happy to take questions. And I just want to quickly you had 26 projects that you had that we are excited to have been a part of as council and.
 I I'm very excited we have a lot going on in the city you know and if you don't see it I don't know where where you're watching or looking but a lot of great things going on in our city so I would like to pause at this time and and not take up a lot of the council time because uh thank you uh counselor Warner he did ask for the update for us and I wanted to make sure that we had
 On time to talk about things that were above a certain dollar amount, I believe $1,000,000 that we talked about. And so these are things that are currently happening or are going to take place that the council already passed and support it. So I will pause and don't want to have too much time of the council since we've already supported these projects. But I want to pause to have council give some if you have questions.
 Let's please talk about that. So I will ask Council to limit it to two questions. I will start with a counselor, Ophelia Gooden-Rodgers. You have any questions?
 No, I don't have a question, but I would just like to say this. I would like to say thank you for that updated report. And I'm going to say to you, this is a great job that's going through the city of South Bend. We have a lot of projects going and it's going to be beautiful to see our city move forward into the future. And I also would like to have that updated report.
 I'LL REPORT IF I COULD. AND THEN I'LL SAY BEFORE JORDAN EVEN GET UP, I'D LIKE TO HAVE HIS TOO. OKAY. THANK YOU. COUNCILOR WARNER, I'LL WAIT FOR YOU LAST SINCE YOU'RE ON THE RDC AS WELL TO GIVE AN UPDATE. COUNCILOR BOLTON-SIMPSON. I'M EXCITED TO SEE THESE THINGS GOING ON. I'M TRYING TO COUNT HOW MANY ARE ON THE FIFTH DISTRICT ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
 but it's good i'll read it over and if i have any more questions i'll get straight to you okay thank you thank you counselor lee i would say thank you for the presentation this is very exciting a lot of hard work that your team has been doing and and along with the members of the council um i my uh my only question is about the juries and how soon we'll be moving to the next phase of
 So we've issued a request to advertise for the next phase of bids, demolition bids. And so you can expect to see that moving forward here, likely May, June, getting the contractor mobilized there once that bid is awarded.
 assuming we have responsive bidders. And so that will take down, like I said, number of the outbuildings, most of the collapsed buildings, portion of the bottling house is also collapsed. So that will go, we'll keep the intact bottling house, the brick building for the time being,
 and then we would remove a significant amount of the concrete rubble and then the steel uh scrap metal there's a big pile it's pretty far into the site you can see it from measle grove park but uh so we'll that will all happen this construction season then my second question would be buildings like the old walmart on portage is there are there
 Family Dollar and Lincoln Way are there. What can your team do to kind of incentivize or to get people to invest in those big box stores that are being abandoned? Yeah, vacated big box stores are a challenge for a lot of cities.
 Sometimes they are built for a specific user. For example, Walmart, they build theirs, but you can get other users in there. That's something where we've looked at abatements. The issue is a build-out for a retailer really is not the primary expense.
 retailers looking at, they're doing market analysis to see what's the draw, you know, who is going to be shopping there. The build-out itself is pretty cheap, steel shelves, and then the checkouts, obviously their inventory is a big piece.
 But we're willing to look at abatements there as well. I think there's some good examples of creative uses. I know in Elkhart, they're looking at other users for the Scottsdale Mall area. And so that's something where we're thinking about what makes sense for attracting other uses in a big box that's been vacated. Thank you.
 Councilor, Vice President is asking. Yeah, thank you so much for that presentation, Caleb. You guys have been very busy keeping us very busy on the council, but a lot of great positive projects that are moving our city forward and a lot of housing options that I had to note. And that's been such a critical thing for so many people in our city. And I'm glad to see all of those rolling out.
 I just had the one, well, I do have two questions, but really one. For bio, the bio refinery, all of those permits have been issued, and you said they have begun to break ground out there? So they do have foundation permits been released for the Phase 1 project, which is a portion of the digester tanks. Off the top of my head, I think they're adding 16, and the Phase 1 is a little less than half them. I think it might be six, I guess.
 Eric might correct me if I got that count wrong. So, yes, the foundation permits released. Their contractor is not mobilized on the site but will be imminently here in the coming weeks.
 That's wonderful. And that's such a wonderful project. And did you say that was going to be the biggest bio refinery in this U.S.?
 And then on the other question I had real quick with Walker Field, I know you talked about that's in the engineering phase right now and maybe the fall or in the spring of 25. And so as they start looking at that, they'll have the public input for the residents in that area as they redesign that park? Or was you just talking about like the...
 there that's on the South side of Ewing. Yeah, so we're in engineering design on the past portion. And then yes, there would be interaction with neighbors on the park piece.
 for the walker field improvements themselves well i'm excited about that so thank you so much thank you thank you counselor tomas morgan thank you president mcbride thank you mr bauer i just share everyone else's excitement as well i think uh if i did my math correctly as you were breezing through those slides i counted about a little north of 12
 150 housing units that we're adding to the stack in our city. So really exciting and look forward to more groundbreakings in the year to come. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Davis. I would like to also say congratulations. I'm very pleased to hear all of our importance. I would like to know what are we doing to market all of our success?
 via television, social media to get out the word of putting all this into some kind of South Bend's on the move kind of.
 marketing so more people would understand what's going on on all sides of town what are your plans with the guiding now yeah I think that's a great point you know sharing uh this with you is is one thing we do um but as well yeah I think we can be better about sharing our successes and all the exciting projects moving forward uh part of the downtown planning process
 is we believe in the development of a downtown plan. This is only looking at the downtown area, but many communities use their downtown plans as a way to celebrate, you know, all the exciting momentum that their downtown has and how that can spread into the neighborhoods and benefit everyone in the city. So downtown plans, part of it certainly highlighting all of the neighborhood projects as well.
 But we don't have a concerted marketing strategy, but I think we're always willing to share news with local media about these exciting projects and look to you to help us get the good word out. Thank you. Thank you. Any updates regarding fun facts, I think?
 oh yes fun effects um should be on the board of public works agenda uh this coming meeting i think it's tomorrow morning um and so that would be a bid to award and then work would begin here uh in may it was a little delayed because we did have to rebid that project so i think i had given you an update a few months back we ended up having to rebid but we're in a position to move forward um and so that should be coming down here in the next couple months so that's tomorrow
 tomorrow you're doing the bid the board of public works meeting tomorrow morning um should should have the bid award on the agenda i'll double check and shoot you a note about that just to verify it thank you sir thank you councilman warner
 I don't have any questions. Just a thank to Caleb and the team. They do outstanding work. And thanks to president bride. I thought it was important. I know some of council has seen some of these projects, not all of them. And then for the new folks and the old folks, I thought it was good to kind of get a good summary and status report on all of the project. We've got to go on. I think there's about a billion dollars or just in that neighborhood. And I know there's more that are coming.
 coming through the process so uh exciting things so great thank you so much mr bauer if you can um
 send an email to Council if there's any updates regarding I know the cost of the Twickenham fire uh Department in the fifth District I'm speaking on behalf of Councilor Bolton Simpson and also if there was any movement um I cannot recall the last conversation we talked about with the Twickenham Parker Pool area so I didn't know if that was any movement with that and then I didn't remember if there were any movement in the Scottsdale area so if there's anything you have if you could please share it with
 the leadership in this Bolton Simpson. Sure, thank you. Thank you. OK, Mr. Gathers throughout good evening Council. Jordan gathers interim director of venues, parks and arts office at 301 South Saint Louis Blvd. Here to follow up on a couple of projects happening in venues, parks and arts, but of course across our city. And if you go to the next slide, I wanted to definitely showcase all of the projects that are happening
 across our city, many of which in all six districts in many neighborhoods. And so we're very excited about that to be able to provide recreational play, be able to be stewards of our great park spaces, which we have over 50, and then also our venue spaces and community centers. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 Going into the first project, wanted to give an update on in Sites Park. This project has been quite a delay, but excited to see a lot of the momentum of progress happening there on the site. As you can see in the middle there of the picture, I'm rendering a performance pavilion, which will be having live music out on the park, new walkways, new restroom concession building areas,
 for the East Race Waterway locker rooms. And so we're very excited to be able to have this amenity. The goal is still to be able to have this project completed at the end of this year.
 Here's a couple renderings just moving forward as you can kind of see the walkway along the river there, kind of a new river portage there for kayaking and just having a different access as far as to the river. And then also some of the lighting, additional seating there to the right as well.
 some more renderings there and also would like to update you all. We are going to be having our 40-year anniversary for the East Race Waterway. We're very excited about that to celebrate with everyone here in the summertime. Moving on into Bayer Softball Complex,
 Exciting news there, the State Budget Committee approved the $3 million for this project. So I want to give a special shout out to the State Budget Committee, in particular Senator Nitzkoski, for his support in those efforts for Phase 1, including rebuilding the existing fields and various upgrades there.
 you know, we're looking forward to getting that bid, get the design and then the construction documents bid it out sometime in September and October and starting construction next summer. So if you move into kind of the next slide, you can kind of see some of those highlight areas. I wanna speak to a lot of, of course, the upgrade of the fields as far as new sod, concession areas, the press boxes,
 and new amenities around the softball complex as well as to the north. We'll also have upgraded park amenities as well with a brand new splash pad to be able to allow families to enjoy the park and the area and the visitors that come and experience this facility. Moving into LaSalle Park improvements, this is on the west side of town.
 near right outside the Charles Black Center. I'm very excited about this project as it's going to build a brand new roller skating loop around the playground area. We're looking forward to having that project completed sometime this summer. June 1st is our target date and looking forward to be able for the community to have, again, new pavilion spaces, new patio area outside that space, as well as outdoor restrooms.
 So if you go to the next slide, kind of see some of that construction underway. Most of the major improvements have already taken place and so we're looking forward to having this completed shortly.
 Moving into the dream center, Caleb kind of touched on this with the London Street Escape Project. A lot of council members in the community was out supporting at the Stills Topping Ceremony. We were able to etch our names on the steel beam for this project. And so we're very excited about being able to dream on for the next 50 years here in our city on the west side.
 Again, reiterating that this is more than just a building, but this is a symbol of our unity together. And so if you go through if you go through to some of the next slides, you can kind of see some of the renderings here of some of the outside, just the reimagined space, a world class 40,000 square foot facility. Outdoor courts will have will have a play area splash pad.
 you know, a balcony to look at the new lending streetscape. Once that completed two basketball courts, you know, indoor walking track, yoga, dance studio, fitness center, you know, and so much more. And so we're very excited about this project. And again, want to thank Mayor Mueller, the city team behind me and those, and also the council for your support in this project.
 Moving into some of the splash pads, we're looking to we have Coquillard Park on the left and then we have Southeast Park. I wanted to touch on splash pads as we as we're getting close to the warmer months here in South Bend. We had a beautiful day today with the sun shining. And so I'm wanting to share that that these will be done in June as well as we kind of kick off our summer season.
 But also that we have eight splash pads across our city parks that are available and looking forward to be able to continue to offer, you know, aquatics and swim and swim in our community.
 Moving on to the Pottawatomie Park plan, you know, wanting to share this opportunity here as we're still in the conceptual phase of the Pottawatomie Park plan, but looking forward to be able to reimagine the park
 you know, we understand that the pull there is going to be demolished, but wanting to be able to garner feedback and responses from the community on what they would like to see in that final concept. And so we'll be having a couple of planning sessions next week. And so really want to be able to invite the community there and also be a part of our online platform
 to be able to ensure that we're getting all the things that are needed and wanted in that community space. Moving into the Kennedy Park plan,
 We're very excited about this. Again, another great exciting opportunity for us and being selected for the DNR Outdoor Recreation Legacy Program matching grant of $7.5 million. Again, matching, so this project is going to be building a newly designed intergenerational aquatics facility. It's also going to have natural areas, pigmented areas, new playground and recreational opportunities
 you know, around Kennedy Park, but truly focusing on the aquatics facility piece is going to be amazing. And this project is going to be a total of 15 million dollars. And so very excited to be able, again, to have another opportunity in supporting recreational recreational fitness and also aquatics here in our community.
 Here are a few renderings just so you can kind of get a little understanding of kind of what we're looking for as far as a full lap pool with many lanes, as far as other aquatic activities that will be slides, you know, water features, cabanas, and so much more inside that we're going to be seeing a lot of folks coming to this area and excited about that.
 All right. And then lastly, wanting to hit on some of our athletic court renovations, you know, just just about a dozen or so just under. But a lot of these are are happening this year. And then and then the last one, Musal Grove happened in 2021. But wanting to showcase that we're very, very intentional about renovating.
 our athletic courts and our parks, enhancing community recreation opportunities and promoting a healthy and healthy lifestyle. So with that, you know, very excited that we have these few projects, more than a few that we've done. We've had, you know, over 120 projects completed so far since 2017. And so looking forward to this year and the years to come in VPA.
 Thank you. Happy to answer. Happy to answer any questions that you might have. Thank you so much for your presentation. I have two questions regarding the River Park upcoming meetings about the neighborhood plan. I know that it's from 10 till 630, but are there designated like times? I remember like.
 Last time I came was a presentation. I don't know if it's every hour, every two hours. I mean, you know. Yes, there are dedicated times for those sessions. I can certainly get that to you, to you, President McBride and the council members as well. Thank you. And secondly, with the Southeast Park, the Saffy Moffitt, is there the city involved in that or is that private donations? Do you know from the Southeast Park?
 What's the status of that? I know that there's construction or have been. Do you know what the status of that park? I'll have to look into that and follow up on that status. Okay, thank you. All right, I will start with Dr. Davis. Okay.
 it's always great to hear about the parks and you've done an excellent job in your role i would like to um see when you have looked at the river we're talking about the river walks and everything else have you looked at what san antonio and other cities will have these kind of walks what they have done to help increase business around those areas
 Absolutely. We're actually conducting a study currently around the Century Center building and activating the riverfront. So we've looked at San Antonio. We've looked at other areas within, you know, particularly in the Midwest and Fort Wayne and other areas as well to bring those features and those amenities to our city and our community. Okay.
 What key thing have you noticed that we need to do that they have already done so far? What have stood out for you? Absolutely. So I would say just the activation of the riverfront, being more intentional about bringing more engagement there as far as whether it be –
 you know, whether it be with our East Race Waterway is one example that we already have that asset there. But being more intentional in that promotion piece. And then and then, of course, a sites park. Once we get once we get that open, that, of course, will bring more attention and more attraction and more foot traffic along our riverfront. I appreciate you doing that. And that kind of thinking is how I even see parks
 which I set out as we looked at the Dream Center there. I can see where parks can be a catalyst to help us bring businesses to areas that were blighted when it comes to businesses or to food deserts and those kind of things. And I think that your whole area of division can really be an economic growth for our city.
 thank you you're welcome thank you counselor tomas morgan yes thank you thanks so much for your presentation mr gathers i was just um let's see i had a question earlier the resident asked about the um pickleball courts and do we have lighting upgrades that have happened or are going to happen
 yeah so i do know that bain pickleball court um that that that project has has been completed okay um and so um as far as the lighting we can certainly look into that um i know that was a part of of the project so um but if there's any if there's any lighting um concerns or issues we're happy to happy to address those i guess i was just one uh um
 Our conversation was around the lighting in the evening and how late into the night that lighting was available for the pickleball courts to be open. Yeah, I can certainly look into that. I know that we certainly don't have a lot of pickleballers late at night. But if we do, we can certainly look into lighting upgrades there. I'll let them know that. Thanks so much. Counselor, Vice President Nisgastin.
 yeah thank you so much for your presentation of very exciting to see all the great outside open spaces where our families can go and enjoy the parks here in the city um i just had one observation or question i guess on kennedy park because i believe over there there's also the animal resource center and as you're looking at in re-envisioning and that's what it looks like definitely is happening that whole park
 Does the city intend to keep that building? And I know they need room to grow. So is there any plans to revisit where that's located and perhaps expand those services for that facility? That's a great question. I'm not familiar with any plans. I don't know if Caleb wanted to speak to that as far as the planning of the old Kennedy Parkfront.
 No, no problem. SBARC is part of the Department of Community Investment. And so we did subdivide the parcel. It used to, it was all part of one parcel. We did create a distinct parcel owned by the Board of Public Works.
 that houses the SBARC facility. It is larger than the footprint of the building, so if there were a future expansion, that could be accommodated on the parcel that we've drawn, but it doesn't cut into what is currently park space either. So we've planned for that, and SBARC will continue to be at Kennedy Park for the foreseeable future. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 counselor lee yes thank you mr gathers for your presentation as always as the chairman of the um parks is very uh it's just invigorating to see the many things that you guys do um my question was for the 40 pickleball
 Court and you said that that's going to be completed. This started in June or? Yes, June. June is the targeted date for. I had some some of some of the residents who left Pickleball and and they've asked about when was it going to be completed? And so we're very, very grateful for that. And then also I in your presentation didn't talk about the Fusion Fest, but. Yeah.
 if you could talk a little bit about that and and what can we expect this year or I can just bring you back as a parks uh update and yeah okay we'll do that okay
 Which piece did you want me to? We'll bring it back. Oh, okay. I will say that Fusion Fest is coming back again this year. And so we're excited about the success of last year, over 35,000 participants at Howard Park. And so looking forward to having, again, another elevated experience of Murph. Great experience. September 14th and 15th, if I put it on the calendar. Big time. Yes.
 Thank you so much, Councilor Bolden-Simpson. Yeah, I have a couple of questions. Does the Pottawatomie Park plan include the greenhouse, upgrading that greenhouse? I remember as a child, I used to go there and we have field trips and everything. It's.
 Absolutely. Yeah, the Pottawatomie Conservatory is included in the Pottawatomie Park Plan. Absolutely. Yes. And then our fifth district way out south. We want to park. I'll keep bugging. OK, but thank you. This is this is great. It promotes good health moving around. Thank you, Councilor Warner. Councilor Gooden-Rogers.
 Thank you. Very good presentation. I have one question. Did I miss the date of the start of the Kennedy Park renovation? The Kennedy Park. Yes, that that that project we that that will be we're looking to.
 We still have a couple of hoops to kind of jump to as far as acquiring the funding for Kennedy Park. So once once we have that funding, we're looking to move forward next year on that on that project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both so much for your presentations and your updates. A lot of exciting things again with the park. We appreciate your time and look forward to more exciting projects throughout the city.
 With that being said, I will now entertain a motion to resolve the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. So we're moving second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Thank you, President McBray. Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session, and this is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Tirado, would you please give...
 Bill 18-substitute bill 18- I make a motion to accept the substitute bill. So moved. All right, it's been a move. And a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? All right. Clerk Tirado, would you please give bill 18-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance to vacate the following described property, the first 360 degree of Bowman Drive east of Portage Road. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, sir. As chair, this was heard in public works and property vacation this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. We see that the present petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Good evening, Angela Smith with Dan Charter Associates offices located at 1643 Commerce Drive. The petition before you is to clean up some map work and lines on the map is like how I describe it. The roads themselves have already been shifted. So this is where Boland Drive used to exist.
 It was realigned with Portage Avenue and now comes down into a cul de sara to a roundabout. This plan, if you can go ahead to the next slide, would vacate the first 300 feet of Boland Drive where it intersects with Portage there.
 That land is no longer needed for public right of way. There's no longer a street to be in that area. There's no plans to change any of the street network here. This is to vacate that so that later we can come back with a subdivision and dedicate the appropriate portion of Boland Drive. Usually when we do that, that's about a foot behind the sidewalk.
 So there'll be a subdivision on both the north side and south side of Bullen Drive that will dedicate that back to the city of South Bend so that it properly aligns with the streets. There are some utility networks in here. So there's some water and sewer main. Those will all be captured in easements on that subdivision. And the city reserves all those rights that go along with that. But we ask for your approval and I'm happy to answer any questions. All right. Are there any questions?
 We talked a lot about this in the committee meeting, so if there's no question from council members, we will now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Torado, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor online or in person for Bill 18-24? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition in person or online?
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 18-24 is now closed. Any council members will make a statement or I will entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to send Bill 18-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor? I'm in favor. Sorry. Roll call. Clerk.
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. 18-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Ferrado, would you please give Bill 19-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 402 West Navarre Street, Councilmanic District number one in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Mr. Chair.
 The zoning and annexation committee met this afternoon, and we bring Bill 1924 to the full council with a favor recommendation. All right. We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening, Council. Carrie Myers with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 This petition is submitted by Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana to rezone 402 Navarre Avenue from NC Neighborhood Center to U1 Urban Neighborhood 1. Slide number four, please. Thank you.
 Located at the corner of William and Navarre, the parcel has been a parking lot for Welchheimer Funeral Home that was located southwest across William Avenue, William Street, and the funeral home was demolished in 2022. This property has been a parking lot or vacant since at least the 1960s. Next slide, please.
 Landmarks is requesting to rezone the property to allow for the move of the Polidor House from 211 West Marion to this property within the Chapin Park Historic District. Most of the homes in this district were built before 1920, and the bungalow home built in 1913 will fit seamlessly within to the neighborhood. Next, please.
 Here's a photo of the house that we're moving to the vacant property. The character and scale of the existing home will fit nicely within to the neighborhood, and its location close to the major corridor, transit, businesses, and downtown make it suitable for U1 zoning. Next slide, please. Next slide, please.
 Rezoning the property to U1 is consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan Objective H.2.5 to pursue alternatives to the demolition of structurally sound housing, and rezoning the property will allow for the relocation of a historic home
 for use as a single-family dwelling, adding density to the neighborhood, and saving a historic home from demolition. This comes to the Council from the Plan Commission with a favorable recommendation, and the petitioner is present. All right, petitioner, I ask that you give your name and address for the record.
 Evening, Todd Zeiger with Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana offices at 801 West Washington. Kerry's done an excellent job of summarizing the project. The proposal is to move the Palo Dor house onto the parking lot. I have one joke, which is it's great revenge to put a house on top of a parking lot rather than the other way around. So we're pleased for that revenge. There had been houses on this property before the 1960s. And so, you know,
 Come this summer, we'd like to put the polliter house on this property. We'll line it up basically facing Navarre Street so the fronts are in sync with the houses to the east, which is a little bit of a challenge because they aren't really all lined up the same, but it will match along that line there. And after we're done with renovation, landscaping and whatnot, we'll put the property on the market for sale for a single family home in the neighborhood. So glad to answer any questions that you have.
 Council members, we talked about this in committee. Is there any other questions? All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Torado, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 19-24? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition online or in public? No.
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor, I'm sorry, in opposition of the bill. Okay. All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 19-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Move for favor. Second. There's been a move and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 19-24 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council.
 all in favor aye those opposed motion carries full council is now back in session this is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were just heard during the committee of the whole clerk toronto will you please give substitute bill 1824 third reading third reading on an ordinance to vacate the following described property the first 360 degree of bowland drive east of portage road
 Thank you, Councilor Lee. Is there a recommendation from the Committee as a whole regarding Substitute Bill 1824? Yes, Substitute Bill 1824 was heard in the Committee as a whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 1824. Move for passage. Second. We're moving to second. Clerk Toronto, will you please call the roll? Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Aye. Bill 1824 has been adopted. Clerk Tarado, will you please give Bill 1924 a third reading?
 Third reading of an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 402 West Navarre Street, Councilmanic District number one in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1924? Yes, Bill 19-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1924. Move for passage. Second. Second. And move and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Ayes. Thank you. Bill 1924 has been adopted. At this time, we will have resolutions. Clerk Tirado, will you please read Resolution 24-13?
 A resolution confirming a final determination and reconfirming declaratory resolution for number 4174-12 concerning a property tax exemption for certain enterprise information technology equipment pursuant to Indiana Code 6-1.1-10-44.
 at an area within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1440 Ignition Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46601 for Analytics Incorporated. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 yes resolution 2413 was heard in the community investment committee this afternoon and comes with a favorable recommendation thank you mr glavich hi eric lavage director of growth and opportunity offices on the 14th floor of this building and
 council will be happy to learn that i figured out how to run a computer so i won't have technical issues this time around um the resolution for your consideration is for analytics which is a data services company in ignition park this is the first company to invest in ignition park and the council has a history of supporting analytics in their efforts
 through. So, Indiana Code provides municipalities and counties and other jurisdictions the authority to be able to grant an exemption from personal property tax for enterprise information technology equipment, so data servers, for example. The whole purpose behind this provision in the state code is to incentivize investment in data centers such as analytics,
 In 2012 and 2013, the Common Council utilized the state provision to provide an exemption to analytics at the time as they were ramping up and building out their facility on ignition drive. One of the things that the state code does, it applies the exemption to additional or replacement technology. So in this case, analytics is required.
 planning on a big expansion. They're going to be investing $30 to $36 million in new equipment and infrastructure to be able to provide expanded artificial intelligence services. So in
 the equipment that they would seek to purchase, some of that would be eligible for this exemption that council had already provided them. This reconfirming resolution that you're considering basically does a few things. It says that analytics is still eligible to receive the exemption. It also confirms that the new equipment
 that they would buy would also be exempt under Indiana code and as part of as an exhibit to the reconfirming resolution is a letter agreement. Basically a contract from analytics asserting that they do meet the requirements under the state code. Few questions came up during committee meeting. One one of the requirements under state code involves the rate of pay for employees of an eligible business.
 The eligible business must have an average wage that is 125% of the county, St. Joseph County. In 2023, beginning of the year, the average wage was $27.68 per month.
 per hour, analytics will be paying $42 an hour. So it's about 150%, a little bit more than 150% of what the county rate is. So that was a question that had to come up at the 3.30 meeting. Also, there was a question at the meeting of how other jurisdictions might
 I utilized this provision in state code. I did a quick search. It was just wanted to see things that had come up recently. Two of the things I found in 2016, Indianapolis provided an exemption to Salesforce
 um and then just late last year fort wayne um provided an exemption to a company called hatch works so there's precedence um but this is something that the council has done it's been supportive in the past we asked that you would support this reconfirmation and analytics was oh there's rich rich is here so uh let me pull rich has a quick presentation let me just pull it up really quick and he can go through it
 Good evening, and I'll be brief. My name is Rich Carlton. I'm the president of analytics. Our offices are at 1440 ignition drive south and we're also at 460 soul street stall street, both an ignition drive, both the ignition park area which was supported in the very early this is my first time back since 2012 when Dr. Davis was our.
 Council person, as we said, we were the first ones in the state to take advantage of this law, helped actually create and craft this law because we were losing data centers and technology opportunities to other parts of the country that did not tax all of the equipment in a data center that Indiana was at that point in time.
 Just a little bit, you may have known us at that point in time, we had originally branded as Data Realty. We've rebranded as Analytics about five years ago. And as we are looking at our organization, what you've seen right now, we hear a lot about AI technologies out there. And really, the real benefactors of AI have been very, very large organizations that have taken advantage of this up to this point.
 We believe very strongly that traditional businesses, manufacturers, banks, healthcare providers, the people that are the fabric of communities like ours, are going to be forced to embrace AI. But they're going to face significant challenges because it's not just about getting technology. It's not just about a data center like some of the opportunities that are coming into our region now. Those types of companies need the people to be able to help guide them through this, and this is what our organization does.
 So we look to be able to not just provide the technology, but the actual people to do the work in advanced computing and technology services and AI to businesses in secondary and tertiary markets like South Bend.
 So taking you back to 2012, when we were here the first time, the technology talent in our area was either leaving or those that, you know, those that had come here for college were leaving or those that had grown up here were not necessarily coming back. And if you're not in the tech space now, almost every business is a tech company. You risk losing the fabric of your communities in many ways. And so we had been involved in managing and storing data and technology, but the wave that was coming is what could you do with this data? Yeah.
 And so we ended up, as you heard, becoming the first people that were in Ignition Park ever. When we were coming before the council in 2012, Ignition Park was a bunch of empty Studebaker buildings looking like the top picture on the right with a wooden sign out front that said nanotechnology. The buildings came down. That's our data center in the back that you see there. Our office space is more in the front. And we're excited that since that time we've had some friends coming.
 and ND Turbo and Press Ganey and others, and it is a very vibrant part of our community. From there, when we talk about AI, we are already delivering it. We're delivering it to companies within our region and companies outside of our region who send their data back to South Bend. This is an example of one of our front ends of our data query where it allows, in this case, it's a banking organization that can help
 can query and ask questions about their data and about their customers and opportunities to be able to grow the community banking business and deposits and to be able to deliver that kind of front-end software, what we've had to do is build our own platform. So we have invested millions of dollars to build out a software platform that allows us to connect
 different types of data that don't normally talk to each other. And we're talking very, very, very large sets of data. We process billions, billions and billions of transactions out of this South Bend facility that we do every day.
 And to be able to do that, that type of complex processing requires servers and computing and cooling that is not your normal type of software computing by any – and hardware computing by any stretch of the imagination. You see brands like NVIDIA and GPUs and other things that you hear about. These are the types of things that we have to invest in for our continued next phase of our growth.
 And so when we first came in front of the council in 2012, the hope was, and it was in our development agreement, was could we create 15 technology jobs at Ignition Park? I'm pleased to say we have knocked that one out of the park. We're at 250 in total, 140 of which are in our South Bend location. 75% of them are technical. You see those numbers.
 of what we do from an inclusion hiring. When you see 26% women and underrepresented groups in the technology space, those numbers are significantly higher than what you would see from Apple or Amazon or those types of companies. We've been able to attract and retain talent, getting 40 plus master's degrees or PhDs that now work at Ignition Park. And you see some of the many universities in the bottom left there that we've been able to attract talent from outside of our area and some within our area.
 and the types of employers. But beyond the college educated folks, one of the things that we have seen is there is incredible training that comes in our branches of our military that build out a lot of our security team. And Ivy Tech here in town is a place that we have gotten a lot of our service techs from and be able to help them grow into our community. And we're very committed to many, many members of our team, our shareholders as well, that we have a policy that we want to include our folks and the opportunities that we have in the future.
 So as our next phase of growth, as Eric talked about, we're going to be investing a significant amount in the coming years in our infrastructure and in our Cloud computing to be able to support regional businesses and national businesses that will come back here and get artificial intelligence services from analytics.
 It's not something we're dreaming about. It's something that's already happening now, and this is about scale and the next phase of it. And we believe that not only will this benefit the Ignition Park region, but our region as a whole, because as we can continue to deliver AI services, we make our region better, our companies more sustainable.
 competitive in this environment that is going to be coming. And we're just excited to hear all the things that were going on in South Bend earlier. My goodness, you were right. What an exciting time. I don't know which one of you said it, but if you're not excited about being in South Bend right now, you're not looking very hard. There are too many good things going on. We are so appreciative of the help that we got from the council the first time around to be able to do our small part of this, and we're looking forward to continuing to do it. So I thank you for your time tonight.
 Thank you. Thank you so much for that information. At this time, I will turn to my colleagues to see if there are any questions of the petitioner. I don't have a comment. Dr. Davis. I'll tell you, it was good hearing your report because of when we had that 12 years ago, I remember a lot of the discussions because the big I knew Ignition Park Innovative Park was going to work because right next to Notre Dame. Yeah. But the question that we had was who was going to invest over there?
 and we held up that meeting for a long time and
 You stepped forward with data relative at the time. And it's been a blessing. It's been a great. That was good to hear that report. Thank you. Like, you know, like you said, with what you the amount of jobs and then what has really turned out to be a bonanza for that. You know, I had my I went out of space to saw you over there over the years. Yeah. And so that was cool. Thank you. I mean, because it's nice to see something that we almost did not.
 I mean, to put the words of, was it ever going to work over there? Yeah. And now you see it. Yeah. It's just, it's a joy to do community service, when you have people like yourself that really believed you. You took a faith. You did it. You jumped in there. You were the pioneer. And everybody followed you after all of that. It's just really amazing.
 Really cool. I would just say while we are proud of where we are, we're even more excited about where we're going. I know. I know. Thank you. Thank you very, very much. Thank you so much. Any other council? With that being said, I will turn it over to the public. I would open it up to see if there's anyone, Clerk Toronto, wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2413.
 Yes, I have one individual online who would like to speak in favor of the bill. Please unmute yourself and state your name and address. Hello, Ms. Kism. Please unmute yourself. Are you there? Sue, I believe the last time you were online, if I'm not mistaken, you told me we could not hear you. So I don't know if I know that you are computer literate. So I'm trying to see what the communication disconnect is. She's saying her mic is on. Mic is on.
 Your mic is on, but we just cannot hear you. We see that you've unmuted your mic. Is it possible for you to type in the chat while I turn back to counsel for comments, Ms. Kessel? I will move forward to and hopefully Sue will. I don't believe you're muted on our end, but no, you're not. Your mic is on. Your mic is on. Yeah. So with that until...
 Hopefully you would have an opportunity to type in the chat for us to get back with you. What I will do is speak, turn now to, is there anyone, Clerk Tirado, wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2413? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Okay. And who's confirmed that the mic is on? The mic is on.
 Sue can you try to speak one more time I see something there you go oh great wonderful uh I wanted to say it's really been exciting to to watch the developments um I think
 We need to give a lot of credit to Rich Carlton for his leadership. He has been outstanding at bringing in new technology and all the things he does to bring the tech community together. I think I've known Rich long before data realty as well. I totally agree with Rich.
 AI being an exciting time. I got my AI certification from MIT and certainly I'm looking forward to what's in the future. So good job, Rich. Good to see you and good to see the projects progressing. Thank you. Thank you, Sue. With that being said, now I will close the public portion since there was no one else online or wishing to speak. Is that someone new in the chat
 Sue's comment no that was um Sue's comment but okay thank you so much I would turn back to Council are there any comments counselor Lee I just want to say thank you for your investment and your your your foresight of saying what was what was coming and what's getting ready to come and so thank you for
 uh taking one of our historic buildings and bringing breathing life back into it and taking us to the future so thank you very much part of a great team thank you sir counselor tomas morgan it's clear you're a man of vision and so thank you for um helping us to retain talent in our region and to attract it so with that i move that we send bill 24-13 we adapt
 favorably bill 24-13 second and moving in second clerk toronto the roll please council member bolden simpson hi council member warner council member lee hi council member tomas morgan hi
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Looking forward to the future. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2413 has been adopted. Thank you all. Best wishes. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion to hear Resolution 2414 and 2415.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motions carried. Is there a committee report? Yes, both bills were heard in community investment this afternoon and come forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Lord Toronto, thank you. Would you please read bills 20 resolutions 2414 and 2415? Thank you.
 2414, a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 2803 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619 and
 2920 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619 as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Steel Warehouse Company, LLC.
 2415, a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 2803 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 466.
 and 2920 Tucker Drive, South Bend, Indiana 46619, an economic revalidation area for purposes of a six-year real property tax abatement for Steel Warehouse Company LLC. Thank you.
 A petitioner? Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity Office is on the 14th floor. These two resolutions would confirm the declaratory resolutions that were adopted by council two weeks ago. The two addresses for the resolutions are the parcels in red within the larger steel warehouse campus off of Olive Drive, or excuse me, Olive in the west side,
 And the two resolutions, the first one is a personal property. Steel Warehouse is investing over $14 million in upgrading a new production line at their facility. Three and a half million dollars would be invested into building a new building to house the production line, and nearly $10 million in equipment will need to be purchased.
 As part of this commitment, Steel Warehouse will be hiring 21 new employees over the next few years. Kind of as we conclude the resolutions and it's kind of exciting that we get to continue to talk about some of the great things that are happening at South Bend. And Steel Warehouse is a longtime, you know,
 you know south bend employer and just seeing this company continue to invest in our community is pretty exciting the personal property tax abatement is always five years that's established by the municipal code um these are some estimates that we ran um in regards to you know what we anticipate the tax abatement would look like um
 And then the real property tax abatement is a six-year industrial development tax abatement. Again, here are the estimated numbers for that tax abatement. Just to point out, you know, this is just one parcel, one small section of this larger campus.
 And, you know, Steel Warehouse continues to invest. They continue to pay taxes. This is an important incentive for them to be able to keep investing in South Bend. They have locations throughout the country, even around the world. And the fact that they want to invest in South Bend is something that we should be proud of. I know that Randy Parsons is here from Steel Warehouse. I think he just wants to say a few words.
 Not too much more to add. Just wanted to thank everybody for listening to us and supporting us over the years. It's been a great, great situation for Steel Warehouse. Any further questions for me? Thank you. I will ask, Council, do you have any questions of the petitioner? Seeing none, I would turn to the public to see if there's any comments from the public. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2414?
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Twenty four fifteen also. I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of twenty four fifteen. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition of twenty four fourteen or twenty four fifteen.
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of 2414 or 2415. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I will turn back to counsel. Are there any comments regarding Resolution 2414 or 2415?
 i'd just like to thank steel warehouse uh that long time one of south bend's uh largest most consistent uh employer for a long long time and uh always provides uh good blue collar working class jobs at good wages and benefits uh to the residents of south bend and thank them for their continued commitment to the city they support uh
 numerous, numerous community organizations. And I know they're putting in seven figures into a new ice rink for the community at the ice box and thank them for their support and dedication to that facility there.
 Thank you. Thank you. Well said. House Vice President Nieskowski. Yes. Thank you so much. Your continued commitment to our community is just amazing. And as Council Member Warner was saying, for me, the icebox is a big one. I remember that when I was a kid. So you guys have just really helped keep that afloat. And I understand that it's pretty close to Mr. Lehrman's heart as well. So I just want to say thank you for that.
 And thank you for your continued investment and the great paying jobs that you offer the residents in the city of South Bend.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee. Yes. I just would like to say thank you again for investing. I mean, this has been a great night of looking at how much people have invested in our city. And we certainly thank you for Steel Warehouse being a staple in our community and not moving to anywhere else and deciding it's better to stay in South Bend. And that's what we love to hear. And that's why we work so hard to make things happen in our city.
 So that businesses will want to stay here and will want to invest and will help families be able to live in a good way. So thank you. And we appreciate your commitment to our city. Dr. Davis, I'd like to thank you. I drive past on my way home. Your plans are there. So I get to see it.
 And so it's nice to see that more development, more investment in the future will continue as our neighborhood, even though I represent the whole city now. I always appreciate that, that your investment over there, right there in that 6th District. Thanks. Thank you so much. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2414. Move for adoption. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, the roll, please.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 2414 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado. Nope. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2415. Move for adoption. Second.
 We move and second it. Clerk, turn around on the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis? Aye. Vice President Naskowski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 2415 has been adopted. Thank you.
 at this time i'll turn to council is there any unfinished business from council is there any new business from council um just my report that i was um it was a joy to be out there with you all um at the dream center when we did the still topping ceremony i appreciated um that whole event it was very inspiring
 And also with the LaSalle neighborhood, I got a chance to be on the meeting with them for the April meeting, joined with Councilwoman Ophelia Rogers-Gooden. We were on that meeting and look forward to bringing some presentations very soon regarding that. So I'm excited to see that. Thank you so much.
 I just would like to congratulate the IBEW number 153 for 110 years of serving our community. They had a great gala this past weekend. And just to see the tremendous work they've done for over 110 years has been exciting and looking forward to the future. Thank you. And I do have one thing, a couple things.
 I just want to remind everybody about the Tire Amnesty Day that will be at the Kirsteet Street. You can take up to six tires there. There's no charge. They can be on the rim. They don't have to be off the rim, but no semi tires, just regular tires. And they're also doing a tree giveaway at Rum Village Park. That's going to be this upcoming Saturday from 9 to 11. So if someone needs a new tree or sapling or you know someone to help reach that, you
 investment into our green infrastructure, I believe that's just a wonderful opportunity to go and get a tree. So that's my report. I know tomorrow is the Human Rights Commission luncheon also. So just a reminder about the Human Rights Commission luncheon. Pastor Lee? On Wednesday, Goodwill Industries will be holding the Little Black Dress event, which is an event that highlights all of the different programs,
 that Goodwill has to offer the community. It brings in community leaders to be at a fashion show. And the most important thing is that they take all of the high-end things that come into Goodwill and mark them 50% off. And it's at the Four Winds Casino. And I don't know if any tickets are left because it's an event and the women are, they really, really flock to this event. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 At this time, I will turn to the purpose of the floor and disrespectful, rude or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. This portion of the meeting is with respect to my microwave noise.
 we hear someone online if you could meet yourself uh Sue I believe it's you Miss Kesem hi we're hearing you if you can meet yourself for a moment I'd just like to continue that the purpose of the floor is limited to uh items related to uh the council uh that is under Council's jurisdictions
 This portion of the council must state your name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes.
 minutes. Individuals should not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard on tonight's agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by the individual during the presentation of the floor to the appropriate council member and or requested city clerk to contact a member of the administration for review of the topics and assigned shall be responded to by the next scheduled council meeting. At this time, we're going live to in-house.
 So we have Mr. Foster in-house for the purpose of the floor. Please state your name and address. Yes, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. Esteemed members of the Common Council, the legislative heartbeat of our city, I urge you to turn your attention to recent coverage in the South Bend Tribune from Sunday and Monday. The headlines starkly pronounce, Democrats Ignored Evidence of Sexual Harassment by Senator
 casting a long shadow over our collective moral compass. It's particularly disconcerting given the individual in question, Indiana State Senator David Nagoski, is no stranger to our council. His connections run deep. Mr. Foster, can I ask a question? Does this relate to the city council business? If you let me finish my statements with all due respect, it will relate to city council.
 It relates to decisions that the city council make regarding city council. Under the Indiana Code, the purpose of the floor is resolved for any issues under the jurisdiction of the city council. And from what I just heard you reference into the state legislator, that's not under the city council's jurisdiction. It relates to how the state senate is regulated.
 involved with the city counselors in front of us and how he is contributing money to many of the counselors in front of us and how I believe that can I please finish my statement at this time I would pause and turn to our parliamentarian for clarification or if you can state the city uh the state uh Indiana code please actually it's the uh South Bend uh Municipal Code section 2-12
 uh 13 privilege of the floor individuals may address only issues over which the city has jurisdiction I haven't heard anything yet that addresses anything that the city has jurisdiction over
 In all fairness, I spoke for 15 seconds, so you can't in my three minutes you haven't heard. Well, I would think that if you would start with how it affects the city would probably be more appropriate because if you read your whole statement and it doesn't have anything to do with the city council. So if it does, I would ask that you would preference that first so the determination could be made. So if you have that information, I would please ask that you would start
 start out with that if it relates to the city um under our jurisdiction so i'm not trying to take away what you're saying i'm asking if you would just i'm coming to my legislative branch as i addressed my legislative branch today and i'm asking my legislative branch to make a statement about how they have accepted money and accepted funds from this gentleman who is involved in this scandal
 And how that affects our women in our community and those affected because me as a taxpayer who I pay to fund the legislative branch, I'm deeply concerned.
 But I think that this is the wrong body for you to address that. If we don't have jurisdiction over the state, I think this is the wrong body. And specifically, if we don't have jurisdiction over that, you definitely have the right to your... My question is about how you guys have accepted that money. I'm speaking to you. I'm not speaking to him. I'm speaking to you guys. That still doesn't have anything with jurisdiction of the city council.
 I was asking for you guys to make a statement in response to the money that you accepted. That was. I appreciate that. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Anyone else? I would turn, I believe, Miss Kessum, I see your hand up. Miss Kessum, please unmute yourself and state your name and address. Good evening. Sue Kessum, 4022 Kennedy Drive. I wanted to say this past week I attended two city functions.
 The Youth Council was very heartwarming. It was great to see high school students really interested in government. And I think Councilman White's doing a great job with them and inspiring them and teaching them, even giving them quizzes. I thought that was kind of interesting. But yeah, it's great to see what the Youth Council's doing and seeing some up and coming students.
 hopeful new council people in the future. The second thing I went to was a developer workshop that was at the library where the city had brought in,
 two experts consultants one from Buffalo New York and one from Minneapolis and it's really great to hear their their perspectives and what they're doing and how it can relate to possibly redoing some of our areas that could be built on the 700 vacant Lots and some of our vacant buildings
 So I found that really useful and it was nice to see how they were also financing that and getting that done. Some of the pitfalls and some of the triumphs. So both events were really great. I enjoyed being part of that. I'm looking forward to Thursday going to the GIS mapping. I have some ideas for that, that I shared with the community investment. So that should also be great. So I just wanted to say thank,
 Thanks. Those were some really nice things that the city's doing. Thank you. Thank you. Or Toronto, do you see anyone else online? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak under privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that being said, we stand adjourned. Good night. Thank you.