I would like to call Monday, March, May 9th, 2022 Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain the good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat. Directions to do so are also located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and address in the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for the public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor,
 Please insert the following into the chat during that time and the council president will call on you. You will be given three minutes to speak during the privilege of the floor. So at the privilege of the floor, insert your name and your address. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you.
 disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. At this time, we will have our invocation given by Imam Anthony Scott. Please come to the podium and state your name and address from the Islamic Society of Michiana. Thank you so much for coming.
 Good evening. I am Anthony Scott to 14 North City Street. Thank you so much for the invitation. It is indeed a great honor and blessing. With the name of God, the merciful benefactor, the merciful redeemer, all praises are due to God, the cherisher and sustainer of the world's most gracious, most merciful, master of the day of judgment.
 Be do we serve and thine help do we seek? Please show us the straight way, the way of those upon whom you have shown your favors, and not the way of those who go astray, nor the way of those whose portion is wrath. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. At this time, we will stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you. Councilman, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Davis?
 DIRECTOR MACK. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER. NEW SPEAKER.
 At this time, we have a special resolution of the Southern Common Council to recognize May as Mental Health Awareness Month. And I am honored to have the opportunity to present the resolution and giving the council an opportunity to speak as well. I don't know if any of my colleagues would like to join in with that resolution. I would read it. Bill 22-20. I am Sharon McBride.
 415 East Broadway Street, South Bend, Indiana. Whereas Mental Health Awareness Month, also referred to as Mental Health Month, has been observed in May in the United States since 1949, reaching millions of people in the United States through the media, local events, and screenings. And whereas Mental Health Awareness Month was started in the United States in 1949 by the Mental Health America, MHA organization, then known as the National Association for Mental Health,
 making this year MHA's 70th year celebrating Mental Health Month. And whereas each year in mid-March, Mental Health America releases a toolkit of materials to guide preparation for outreach activities during Mental Health Awareness Month, during the month of May, Mental Health America, its affiliates, and other organizations interested in mental health conduct, they conduct a number of activities that are based on a different theme each year.
 And whereas after the past two years of living through a pandemic, people are realizing that stress, isolation, and uncertainty have taken a toll on their well-being. And whereas in 2022, Mental Health Month advocates were advancing the theme of Back to Basics with the goal of providing foundational knowledge about mental health and mental health conditions and information about what people can do if their mental health is a cause concern.
 And whereas the purpose of Mental Health Month is to raise awareness and educate the public about mental illnesses, such as a number of Americans who suffer from depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder, the realities of living with these conditions, and strategies for attaining mental health and wellness.
 It also aims to draw attention to suicide, which can be precipitated by some mental illnesses. Additionally, Mental Health Awareness Month strives to reduce the stigma, negative attitudes, and misconceptions that surround mental illnesses. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the South Bend Common Council as follows. On behalf of the citizens of the city of South Bend, Indiana, we are pleased to honor professionals such as social workers,
 psychologists, counselors, nurses, psychiatrists, and others who work in the mental health profession. Section 2, the City of South Bend continues to be made stronger through the mental health achievements of mental health professionals. Section 3, this resolution shall be effective immediately upon passage by the South Bend Common Council and approval by the Mayor. At this time, I would like to open it up for my colleagues to see if you have any comments about the resolution regarding mental health.
 Councilman Lee. Thank you, President McBride. I just want to thank you for bringing this resolution to the council. Mental health is a very important issue. With the work that I do with group violence intervention, we see the effects of poor mental health in people and the violence that we're seeing in our communities.
 it actually trickles down from adults to children and then it spreads. And so, um, us being aware of, of, of this month and the toolkits that are available to help people deal with the mental stress. We've seen that after the pandemic, there are some people there, there are people who have really struggled. And so it's very important that we use every avenue we can to help people get mental health. And so thank you for this resolution. And, um,
 And I support it. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Thank you. Councilor White. DIRECTOR WHITE Yes I would like to also echo the comments coming from First District Representative Kenneth Lee and to thank our President for bringing forth this very important proclamation. It is.
 so needed that we as stakeholders, educators, social workers, all first-line providers, but most important, this council, that we share information in regards to the impact that the pandemic has had in regards to education.
 our mental health and to provide not only education, but also the resources to begin to address this major concern. Just on Sunday or maybe the day before, there was a commercial or ad that appeared on the television indicating that if individuals like to
 receive more information about mental illness they could dial 211 so I don't know if anyone saw that ad that was on or commercial was on television so that there is a telephone number that they can call as well so thank you for bringing this to our attention thank you for your input counselor wax thank you and thank you President McBride for bringing this important resolution
 As the child of two mental health professionals who have been practicing here coming up on 35 years now in the South Bend area, you know, we're all very aware of the importance of mental health awareness and the importance of reducing the stigma for getting help if somebody needs. Every one of us interacts with mental illness, whether themselves or whether somebody
 their family or close colleagues that there isn't a single person who's immune from the effects of mental illness and um and it's okay to get help it's important to get help um and this resolution is a wonderful way of bringing attention to that and thank you thank you so much thank you uh clark jones do you see if councilwoman um hammond has her hand up any comments i would like to make a comment please
 Yes, Councillor Hammond. Thank you, President McBride. We appreciate you bringing this resolution forward. It works in concert with the resolution for suicide awareness, which will be coming up in September. So these two very much go hand in hand.
 And I appreciate also that you added the acknowledgement for the mental health workers. They've been through quite a bit through the pandemic and with the shortages that their profession is currently experiencing, I'm sure it's continuing to be quite stressful for them. So with all of that, I thank you and I support the resolution. Thank you so much for your comments.
 i would like to add um that i would also be sponsoring a benefit concert for anyone suffering from mental health on may the 20th at howard park from 7 to 10 for all the community to come out so if you know someone and for anyone that needs help help is available thank you so much we'll move on there are no reports from city offices so at this time i will entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole
 So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Wright. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. I have a point of order question for Council.
 I believe now that the rules are that you have to have your video on for every vote. Is that correct? That is correct. Could you hear that, Counselor Hammond? And I apologize, but when you are actually taking your vote, and I wasn't looking up, I apologize. Oh, that's fine. That's fine. Just when you're voting. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Absolutely.
 All right, the Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. And in all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. And we'll be looking at Bill 15-22. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 15-22 a second reading?
 1522, PUBLIC HEARING ON AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTHVEND, INIANA, TO VACATE THE FOLLOWING DESCRIBED PROPERTY, AN ALLEY BETWEEN LOTS 4 AND 5 OF BURBINGER'S FIRST ADDITION. IS THERE A COMMITTEE REPORT? YES, THAT WAS HEARD IN PUBLIC WORKS AND PROPERTY VACATION AND WAS SENT TO THE COMMITTEE OF A WHOLE WITH A FAVORABLE RECOMMENDATION. IS THE PETITIONER PRESENT? YES.
 I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. My name is Mike Grazicki from AvanMarch Consultants 315 West Jefferson. I'm here tonight representing South Bend Heritage Foundation. They just want to put a nice house on this lot. It's unimproved alley right now and if this goes through,
 it'll be able to utilize the center line of the alley as a setback instead of where the current property line is so they can make the house about five feet larger in width that's pretty much all i have council members do you have any questions for the petitioner at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion clerk jones is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor bill 15-22
 I don't see anyone virtually that is expressing interest to speak in favor of the 1522. Is there anyone present or online wishing to speak in opposition? I don't see anyone online. Someone in the public. I don't know if it's for or against. When you come to the podium, if you will state if you're for or against. And state your name and address. And state your name and address, please. I'm Jonathan Thornton.
 And my address is 912 West Oak Street. And we're vacating it, but we're in the process of buying the lot, that empty lot on the other side of the alley. So I'm... This is our first time saying that. Yes, yes, sorry. So are y'all for it or are y'all against it? We're for vacating it, but we put on an application last year
 you're vacating it so okay so you're for vacating it so you're you're in favor yes constantly I think they just probably have some concerns about what's happening yes and I I guess engaging them at that level probably be to their benefit right well are there some questions that you may have or yes is it the empty lot or the alley
 all right next to 912 west notes great petitioner you can answer that you come on to the mic sorry about that yeah so let me show them a sketch of what we're doing that probably might help so
 And we also do have Dr. Carol Bowles who's from the city who may be on. This is the alley that we're vacating right here. Okay. It's no, there's no improvements. This is grass. So you probably wouldn't recognize. This is the one that we applied for. Oh, okay. That's. This was the last.
 I don't think that's what this petition is for for this one. I think they're thinking of the alley to the east of the one we're petitioning. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Yes we are. Okay. DIRECTOR RIVERA- We are so sorry. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE- No we're glad. DIRECTOR HERSEY- All right. All right. Thank you. DIRECTOR HERSEY- All right. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE- You need to come up to the mic. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Well come on to the mic and give me and state your name and. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE- And your address.
 Well, I live in Mishawaka, but this would be 908 Oak Street. Oh, it's right here. And, okay, which one is them? They're down here. Okay. And where is my vacant lot? I couldn't tell her that. I don't really know. Dr. Carrabois, are you on? So what is it you're going to do? They're going to vacate this lot so that...
 Half the alley will go to this lot and half will go to this lot. 914 is the address. What was your address again? 908. 908. So you're down farther to the east. You're down here farther. This is them? This is 912. So you're two more lots. You're four lots. I believe she's four lots east of the petition. She's 908 Oak. Okay.
 908 okay and we're 914 and 918 so okay so I there must be I mean this this is them 12. I'm not really for sure who she's referring to those people that came up here they're down they're over here correct okay so then it's on the other side of their house yes and our the current alley that we show here is not improved so you wouldn't even see any
 roadway going through there, just the grass. So most people would think it's goes with this. This part of the lot right now. Right. So it's still not doing anything. All right. So are you in favor or opposition? Well, thank you. All right. Thank you. All right. That's the democratic process. There we go. So no one's in opposition at this point. The public hearing on Bill 15 dash 22 is now closed.
 Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding Bill 15-22? If not, I will now entertain a motion. Motion to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Motion passes. Next, we'll be reviewing Bill 20-22. Clerk Jones, will you please give 20-22 a second reading?
 2022 Public Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana supplementing and amending Ordinance Number 9722-06 Ordinance Number 9968-09 and Ordinance Number 10142-11 pertaining to the City of South Bend Indiana Variable Rate Economic Development Revenue Bonds Series 2007.
 Approving a form in authorizing the execution and delivery of a third amended and restated trust indenture. A third amended and restated loan agreement and other documents related to the bonds and authorizing proper officers to do all other things deemed necessary or advisable in connection therewith and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto. DIRECTOR HERSEY. All right. Thank you.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 20-22 was heard in personnel and finance this afternoon, and it was sent to the committee of a whole with a favorable recommendation.
 Is there a petitioner present, which there is? I ask that you state your name and your address and share with us key points regarding this bill that's before us. Thank you. My name is Randy Rompola, and I am an attorney with Barnes & Thornburg with offices at 201 South Main Street. The ordinance before you amends a bond ordinance that was adopted originally back in 2007 when the city issued bonds.
 for and on behalf of PEI Genesis, the manufacturing company, and the real estate holding company Tulip Tree to construct the facility where PEI Genesis is currently located out on Cleveland Road. The ordinance before you would make two changes to the existing bonds. One is to change the interest rate calculation in the indenture facility.
 LIBOR is going away and it is replaced with a different interest rate calculation. The second would be to remove the manufacturing entity PEI Genesis as a borrower. The bondholder, which is currently Citizens Bank, is agreeing to that change as well. The reason why we're here and the reason why the city issued bonds in 2007 is because it allowed PEI Genesis to receive the benefits of tax exempt financing.
 the ordinance before you and the documents as they were and as they are make clear that the city bears no responsibility with respect to the bonds the bonds are payable solely by the company and not in any fashion by the city so the intent here is just to simply amend the trust indenture to bring it into compliance with current interest rate calculations and then amend the loan agreement to remove the borrower with that i'm happy to answer any questions council members do you have any questions for the petitioner
 All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing section. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 20-22? There is no one from the public that's wishing to speak in favor of Bill 20-22. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one virtual audience that is in opposition of Bill 20-22.
 All right. At this point, the public hearing of Bill 20-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill? If not, I will now entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to send this to the Bill 2022 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Or I should say for passage. Second. All right. The motion, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 20-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation and passage.
 I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and will report back to the full Council. So moved. Second. It has been moved and second. Clerk Jones, please take the roll. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Laskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 All right, motion carries. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 1522 a third reading?
 1522 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana to vacate the following described property alley alley between lots 4 and 5 of Furbringer's first addition. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Thank you. Counselor Neskoski is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Councilman
 Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole? Thank you for the compliment. Yes, Bill 15-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 15-22. I would like to move for the passage of Bill 15-22. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Bill 1522 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give a reading to Bill 20-22.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana supplementing and amending ordinance number 9722-06 ordinance number 9968-09 and ordinance number 10142-11 pertaining to the City of South Bend Indiana Variable Rate Economic Development Revenue Bonds Series
 2007 approving the form and authorizing the execution and delivery of a third amended and restated trust indenture a third amended and restated loan agreement and other documents related to the bonds and authorizing proper officers to do all other things deemed necessary or advisable in connection therewith and approving and authorizing other actions in respect there to.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 20-22? Yes. Bill 20-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 20-22. I move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded for Bill number 20-22. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Councilmember Hamlin? Yes.
 Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Bill 20-22 has been adopted. There are no resolutions tonight. There are no bills on first reading tonight. At this time, I would open the floor up for unfinished business. Sure.
 We've been working on some type of like partnership with the South Bend Community School Corporation, obviously for some time now, being actively engaged and working with them. But once we're meeting sometime last week, I can't call today, but I did go. And what I was informed was that there will probably be some school closings, etc.,
 And that is the whole reason why the whole idea of work with school corporation came up because there will be some changes. And we know that there's going to be some changes, whether we agree with them or not. But what I did get to witness and I need you guys to pay attention to this is that the closing schools in the manner in which they're trying to get them done or being proposed will change the way that the city operates culturally.
 uh systematically if those things do happen you can expect what occurred over on elwood street with lasalle being closed to mirror or be duplicated in other areas as well not saying that they shouldn't close schools that's not what i'm saying i'm not saying they should keep them open either but the practicality of closing a school
 And what happens when a school is closed or when a school turns from public to charter is enormous. It changes the atmosphere within that area. And so far as we are seeing it right now, it is expected to be at more than one school. So you can talk about maybe a side of a town, the order for the entire city. What they're talking about doing is extremely transformative.
 um and so that will impact the way that we do our job here on this council level at a very high level so i'm throwing caution out there if you have not participated in these conversations if you have not been a part of them i would i would um say that you should be because those things are very very um life-changing uh generationally
 It's just not closing the school because they need the right size because students are going elsewhere or families are going elsewhere. It's more than that. You're talking about land deals. You're talking about real estate deals. You're talking about assessed value. I think there was a conversation earlier about someone's assessed values went up times three because of the new assessments that have gone out. You would expect those things to go at a higher level.
 or maybe even a low, low level if we begin to start closing schools. So in order to maintain some of the services that we do render to the residents here, meaning trash, water, et cetera, that conversation needs to be paid attention to at a very high level. If it's not, if we don't have a say so or if we're not supporting it, I want to say this. The gentleman that was facilitating the meeting, his name was Tracy.
 And I asked him flat out, was the mayor a part of these discussions? Because what's happening is very, very transformative. It is. And he didn't give me any feeling that the mayor had been talking to him. Clearly, he hadn't had any other council member outside of myself that day to talk to him. I think, and I'm being honest about this, and I've said this before, that there's not a tighter relationship.
 to plan what the city looks like in the coming years there's going to be a whole lot of people that's going to lose out big time including this city so I'm throwing it out there right now I'm going to stay there and that's even stay in the conversation with them but I'm letting you rest of my colleagues know that it's a serious thing uh it's been replicated in areas called Benton Harbor Gary Chicago Detroit Indianapolis
 So if you don't think that I'm being serious, check those places out. I appreciate your comments and just I just want to add that I actually have been in those committees because I'm on the committee. And also when I was absent, Vice President Niskowski went in my stead.
 So you're absolutely right. It is an important issue, but we do have representation as well. So you're right. We all need to get involved. But just wanted to make sure that you were aware that we were also engaged and not just you attending them. So just wanted to put that on record. Anyone else want any unfinished business? Thank you. At this time, I would. New. Is there any new business?
 Yes, there's an email that went out and I sent it back. We're talking about budget hearings and I want to be able to get into a better conversation about them. Last year, I was very clear about how do we grade our departments when they come before us? If they do come before us, I know that they should come before us because that's what we should request. Are we going to do performance based budgeting? How are we going about this business?
 of being very analytical and corrective of what departments are doing or not doing as it relates to the amount of money that we're going to approve for their
 business for the following fiscal year. I did send that back out to Sheila. I'm just going to put it out on the table right now about the need for having some sort of scale on how do we judge or how do we figure out what department is doing the most or who needs the most, who doesn't need anything at all, or if
 whatever that is. I just need an understanding of how we're going to go about the business of budgeting this coming summer. And I think it's healthy to have those discussions at an open, just not one by one. Thank you so much for your input. Anyone else for new business? If I may, I would like to point out one statement. Every single budget department had came before us last year.
 All of them did. Some of them came four and five times. So you're continuing insertions that you didn't get to talk to every budget chair. We did. I did. I did. No, it's not. It's misinformation. Why do you take issue with me asking for something for this time around? Every single department head. But why do you take issue with it? How do you take issue with a council member asking for... No, you didn't ask. You continue to perpetuate...
 that you did not get to talk to me. Well, I'm so sorry, Troy, that you were unhappy about the way I used my words. Don't be condescending to me. I'm being very condescending right now because I can't understand how you can get mad at me for asking a question about more information. All I'm doing is correcting your misinformation that you stake. Well, that's how you feel. That's how you feel. If you don't like that, that's too bad, but I'm correcting your misinformation. My misinformation. Yes. House Clerk Niesgowski.
 Thank you, Madam President. I just want to make sure that everybody understands the email I sent out. We are in the very early stages. This is only May. So I just wanted feedback from council members.
 to see what their ideas were. And so you don't have to send me. You just said what your ideas were. I appreciate that. Still waiting on all the other council members. And once I receive feedback, that will help me make a decision about how we proceed with the budget process for this year. We're still in the very early stages. That's why I didn't really elaborate on that email. It was more of a feedback. What did you feel about the process, which you pretty much have said
 have told us how you felt about the process. Thank you. Thank you. Counselor Hammond, thank you for waiting. Sorry for interrupting. No, no. I would also like to point out that we've waited almost a year for the employee survey that we had been promised. And I personally would not like to go back into budget negotiations that may or may not
 involve salary conversations without the city actually conducting that survey that they committed to last year. Thank you so much for your input and reminder of that. Is there any other new business? With that, I will move forward to privilege of the floor.
 Individuals who would like to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda.
 The Council President may assign a topic raised by an individual doing the privileges of the floor to the appropriate Council member and or request the City Clerk to contact a member of the City Administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled Council meeting. Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience who would like to speak on the privilege of the floor? Do not see anybody in the virtual audience that's expressing interest. Thank you. And if none in the Council Chambers?
 Thank you. With that, I will call this meeting adjourned. Thank you.