yeah tired of looking at screens too yeah hey you want to take a look at these masks I ordered one in advance to make sure to see what it looks like what do you think yeah those are from South Bend seamstress yeah do you like them yeah Sheila what do you think I think it's cute so I had um
 My son Ben has one too, and so had the men in my family try them on, because I wasn't sure if it just fit me well and I have a smaller face, but it actually fits them better than it fits me, I think. So anyway, it's proven that it's unisex and would be able to fit both men and women faces. Yeah, those are nice.
 So I think we'll anyway, uh, check to Tim today and should be able to move forward on those. How are you doing Sheila? I'm doing OK, doing OK. I'm tired of working through computers. Yeah, you're just saying that great. Did you have a nice Mother's Day? Yeah, Pete and Ben ordered takeout from Phantom Diner for me.
 Oh. Yeah. They used to have, there was a, it was a pop-up dinner place at the L Street Grill. And they opened up their own place in the old Remedy building across from Martin's on 23. Oh. They opened it just before everything hit with COVID. But they started doing, they were doing some takeout and they had a really nice special for Mother's Day. Oh, that's good. So they're still hanging in there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
 you did you have a good mother's day yes i did i got to see the grandkids so that was a good good deal there to see rachel of course rachel and kelly but those little ones are we sure miss them a lot yeah i bet yeah happy mother's day to all you ladies oh thank you so kind thank you
 Yeah, David made me breakfast and dinner. Oh, nice. Yeah. No, David did nothing. Oh, that's great. I got to do everything I wanted to do, which meant everybody left me alone to do what I wanted to do. Okay. Rachel and Sheila, this is Karen. Can you hear me? Yes, I'm here. Can you see me? Can you see me? No, not yet. I don't know why. Your camera's not on.
 Your camera needs to be turned on. Okay, I think my camera is turned on. Can you see me? Okay. Oh, there you are. Oh, hello everybody. Hi Karen. Hello. I'm Zooming out. I'm Zoom conference out for today. I don't know if I could take another Zoom meeting today, but I will.
 shining, so that's good news. Yeah, hello. Sharon, yeah, how are you? Good. Hey Sharon. Side side. OK, it is 620. We're going to go ahead and get started.
 If you're not talking to everybody, put your microphone on mute. I'm going to ask Clark Jones to read the instructions, and we'll do this before Common Council. Okay.
 before the committee meeting just instructions on how we'll handle public inputs this is our first meeting back with public input and it's a virtual meeting with public input and then chair McBride I'll turn it over to you to start the meeting so clerk Jones if you go ahead and read those instructions we
 We will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality. So keep that in mind for the council and for the public. And if anyone in the public would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item,
 please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meeting. Okay, thank you Dawn. And Chair McBride, what we'll do is just ask if there's any public input.
 and Graham will direct whether someone has written something in or someone's available to speak and the clerk's office will turn them on or off, okay? If anybody's out of line or inappropriate because we don't have any personal control, they can mute them and we'll consider them out of order. So Chair McBride, if you wanna go ahead and start.
 Thank you. At this time, we'll call the Zoning and Annexation Committee meeting to order. And we'd like to recognize Vice Chair Sheila Nesgotky. Are you here? Rachel Tomas-Morgan, are you here? Rachel Tomas-Morgan is here. Lori Hammond, are you here? Lori is not. All right. So I'm here, and I think I was muted. Okay.
 Yes, thank you. Well, it's three of us. We have a plan. We will move on to Bill 1020, their presenter. Hello. Could you state your name and address, please? Hello. Do I have a presenter? Hello, Council. Oh, great. Oh, great. Mike, you got it? Yeah. Awesome. Okay.
 Okay, good evening. Michael DeVita, principal planner with the Department of Community Investment, offices on the 14th floor of the Kennedy City building. So the property at the northeast corner of State Road 23 and Douglas Road was added to the city through a voluntary annexation in late 2018. The site is currently under development for a convenience store and gas station.
 The legal description in the annexation ordinance that was passed for the property listed it as being in the southwest quarter of Section 29. It should have said the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 29. So the ordinance before you makes that technical correction. All other terms of the annexation remain the same. So I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have.
 Thank you. First, I'll take entertained questions from the committee. If none, I'll turn to counsel. If none, I'll open it up for public comments from the public or questions. As a point of information, Chair McBride, there has been no member from the public to respond to either the chat or before. Thank you so much. With that being said, I'm turning back over to the full counsel. What say you from the committee? Okay.
 I move to forward bill number 1020 to the full council for third reading. I'll second. Is that favorable? With a favorable recommendation. Thank you, President Scott. Did I hear a second?
 Thank you. It has been moving second to send it to the council with a favorable recommendation. At this time, I stand to adjourn. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. McBride. Good job. Thanks, Mike DeVita. President Scott, do we need a vote actually on that? Didn't the committee take a vote?
 You're right, they didn't. The committee did not take a vote of the three members present. One made the motion and one seconded the motion. Thank you so much. Are we taking a roll? Yes, do a roll call, please. Please take a roll call vote. Thank you, Mr. Warren. Ms. Jones, would you do a roll call of the... Yes, I'm sorry. Council Member McBride? Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Naskowski. Aye. And Council Member Thomas Morton. Aye. Okay. Thank you. Awesome. Good job. We have four minutes before we hear community investment. Council Member Teshka, this is Graham. Can you hear me?
 I can. Just so you know, I presume you may have seen in the chat your your citizen member, Thomas Curzell, did enter the meeting. Yes, sir. Thank you. You're welcome. Graham, do you know if there's going to be any presentations or did you have those presentations for any of the tax abatements? I did send the email out to the DL counselor. It should be in your inbox. I did send that out earlier this evening.
 Okay, thank you. You're welcome. That's pretty good, Graham, if you can toggle back and forth. Yeah, it actually just kind of hit me that if Dan Buckenmeyer is in the lobby, I've got to double check because I've been sharing my screen. I presume he could also share his screen and go at his pace as well if it works better for him. Yeah. No, I see it right now, so that's great. Okay. Awesome. We've got a minute, and then we'll turn it over to Mr. Tashka. Okay.
 Graham. Yes, Dan. Yes. Hey, this is we've got like four slides, so I'm sure we can just just keep what you've got up up rather than trying to switch. Sure thing. We'll do. Yeah, we will need to see the agenda. Mr. Teschke, if you would go ahead and start.
 Yes, we'll go ahead and call to order the Community Investment Committee meeting. Myself as chair here, as well as Rachel Tomas Morgan, vice chair. We also have members Sharon McBride and House Member White. And as Graham had stated, we also have our citizen member, Tom Kurzweil.
 And we have four things on the agenda tonight. I will recommend, and Bob, I'm not sure if we need to make a motion and approve this, but we'd like to hear for the ease of the petitioner and for the committee here bills 20-07-09 and 11 together.
 Yeah, Jake, you'll need to make a motion to do that and have a roll call vote of the committee members. Okay. So I'll go ahead and make that motion to hear bills 2007, 2009, and 2011 together. Second. Clerk Jones, could you read the roll of the committee, please? Yes, I will. Council Member Teska? Aye. Okay. Okay. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye.
 Council member McBride. Aye. Council member White. Council member White. Does she have her mic on? Yeah. She needs to be unmuted. Okay. Aye. Okay. We have four ayes. We have the citizen member also, Dawn. Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Tom Curzon. Aye. We have five ayes. Thank you.
 So we will hear together 2007, 2009, and 2011. Do we have a presenter? Now unmuted, this is Dan Buckenmeier, Director of Business Development from Department of Community Advancement, 14th floor of the County City Building.
 So these three tax abatements are all being heard on behalf of WSJM Inc., also known as Midwest Family Broadcasting. So the radio stations themselves have a long history in South Bend, Midwest Family, well, under previous ownership. And you can stay on that first slide for a minute. Recently, well, since then.
 A previous owner took them out of the city of South Bend. Midwest Family is looking to bring them back in. They found a great location, just this map to kind of reference you, that big square box above the red box where they're located as the post office. So you can get an idea where they are just on the south side of the city center there. So going to the next slide,
 One of the reasons staff is very excited about this is, in fact, that this building has been vacant for several years now. It's a very challenging building. You can see from the standpoint of bringing in a new user who may otherwise want something that's just ready to go. It's virtually windowless. It presents no small amount of challenges in terms of rehab and
 reuse. So we are very excited that Midwest Family is taking on this challenge. It does, some of the unique qualities it does have actually lend into its use. But it's, put frankly, in terms of
 community investments view of this building we were afraid it would end up in city hands and need to be demolished at some point the mid to long term so it's great to see this building being repurposed and and put to great use by a great company jumping to the next slide just to give a couple highlights of the
 What we're doing, there are again three tax abatements. There is a real property tax abatement that abates any tax increase over the next five years as a result of a new assessment. There is a, I'll jump to 2011, which is a vacant building tax abatement, which gives some relief on the current tax value as well.
 And both of those, the vacant and the real, basically maximize their opportunity to reinvest what would otherwise go to property tax payments back into the building, into this very significant rehab that I kind of explained for you. And then finally, there's a personal property tax abatement, Bill 2009. Personal property is always is utilized to offset some of the tax strain of property
 new equipment and capital investments. They're going to be putting four radio station studios in there, they're going to be putting offices, they're going to be busting open the sides of this thing to put in windows and make it livable.
 So again, a very significant investment being made both on the building and property itself and on those things going inside. It's about a 20,000 square foot facility. They're going to be investing about three and a half million in this project.
 23 jobs that exist with the organization right now will be retained and brought to South Bend. Three new jobs will be created within the five years of all of these abatements.
 Right now that building and property only pays, it's actually under $12,000 a year in annual taxes. So if we weren't able to support them, if we, you know, I sometimes want to frame the cost of not acting, and in this case the cost of not acting would be a building that would,
 Again, a very challenging building to repurpose that would sit paying 11,000 and declining in value and in property tax revenue over time. And possibly again, my long-term fear had been it would become a city expense to do something with it. Instead, they will reinvest some of the savings they see as tax abatements or they propose that they will.
 And in five years, well, actually in six years, when the tax abatements roll off, they'll be paying nearly an estimated, this is our estimates, but nearly $60,000 a year in taxes. So it's nearly, I mean, it's an absolute win-win in terms of giving some front end relief or some backend revenue. It makes so much sense in the,
 particularly, it would make sense in any economic environment, but it makes even more sense now to work closely with an organization that's willing to come to South Bend to bring jobs to South Bend and invest in South Bend. So it comes to the committee and to council with an absolutely positive recommendation from the DCI staff.
 I will stop there and allow Mr. Bill Gamble, Midwest Family. I think Bernie Lang also from their contractor may be chiming in as well, but I'll let them talk for a moment on it and then we'll open it up. Thank you, Dan. Thank you everyone for your time this evening.
 As Dan said, WSBT in particular has been part of South Bend for a long time. Mr. Gamble, as a point of order, could you please state your name and address for the record? I'm sorry. Thank you. My name is Bill Gamble. I'm from South Bend, Indiana, and a resident. We are looking to relocate our operations back to South Bend. WSBT first hit South Bend in July of 1922.
 The call letters at that time were WGAZ. The callsign stood for World's Greatest Automotive Zone, sort of a tip back to Studebaker at the time. It's one of Indiana's oldest radio stations. And, you know, as we were looking to relocate, we would certainly like to celebrate our 100-year anniversary being back in South Bend.
 It just, WSBT in particular, it's one of four radio stations. The others are Sunny 101.5, Z94.3 and Live 99.9. You know, serve the community. In a given year, we'll give over $200,000 worth of airtime supporting community events, fundraisers, nonprofits. Recently, on May 1st, we did May Day for Michiana, where we were raising money for the Food Bank in northern Indiana. Yeah.
 In 10 hours, we raised $18,000. And according to the food bank, that's going to provide almost 70,000 meals. We're also the home, Sonny and WSBT of Notre Dame football. And South Bend equals Notre Dame football. And so we just figured we need to be back in South Bend. So we're excited about it. And as Dan said, the former ownership group moved out. And we're in a beautiful building in Mishawaka right now.
 but we think it's time to move back to South Bend. And if anyone has questions, please let me know. Dan, is there any more from a presenter standpoint? Turn it back to the committee. The committee first, do you have any questions for our presenters? Okay. Hey Jay.
 Yes, there are. There were some questions I just forward over to Graham. This is Henry. I'm sorry. Those questions I forward over to Graham are not not coming from me. As a matter of fact, they're coming from Laurie Hammond. I sent him to him. I can send them to you as well. I think you do have them. I saw you on the email as well. The questions are for the presenter that's there and they probably should be read into the record.
 Sure. Council Member Davis, this is Graham. I just received the email sent at 641 here. This is the three questions then. Would you like me to share my screen on my email? No, I mean, that's fine. I just think that, you know, excuse me, for disclosure, in public record today, probably should be read and hopefully given an answer as well. Sure. Chairman Tesco, would you like me to ask them just a question?
 Well, real quick, so we didn't have any questions from the committee, is that correct? Okay, so we'll open it back up to the council. I'm sorry? Mr. Teshka, this is Rachel Tomas-Morgan. I have no questions. I have some comments, but after questions? Yeah, I think we can take some comments after questions, after public comments.
 so we'll turn it to the whole council then um so i'm understanding that these questions are from councilmember hammond is she is she not on no she's not at all on her husband um had to go to med point i think they have a situation with the pandemic going on right now so uh i'll probably keep them in the prayers sure okay well um
 Then, yeah, Graham, I guess if you'd want to read those questions and we'll see if we can get answers. Great. First question is, Mr. Gamble, how long ago did this company move to Mishawaka?
 The company moved to Mishawaka in 2008. It was owned by Insurance Communications at the time, and at that time it used to be in the building now where WNIT is located. Okay, Mr. Gamble. And as a follow-up to that same question to Mishawaka, were they given a 10-year tax abatement that has recently expired? No.
 You know, I don't know the answer to that because it was not involved with the SHERs at the time they put together the agreement for the building. As far as I know, I don't believe so, but I just really don't have that information. Okay. Second question is, the 23 jobs claimed to being brought back to South Bend, are they already existing jobs or is this new job creation?
 There are existing jobs now at the radio stations. We expect to add over the course of the year. We were conservative. I think we said we'd add three jobs in the next few years. We'll probably add more. The pandemic, of course, has sort of changed a lot of projections, but we're still optimistic about growth.
 And the third question, what, and I quote, clawbacks, end quote, are in place if this company falls short of the proposed conditions? Bill, I'll take that if you want. Okay. Sure. With any tax abatement, the standard is that every year the –
 recipient submits a CF1. It's a compliance form one that is due on May 15th of every year. In that compliance form, they address their
 adherence to everything from the amount of investment that they promised that they would make in the building the property and equipment in each case for each tax abatement it also does look at those jobs what were the new jobs that were committed to created that's why as we do with every
 Tax abatement recipient, as Mr. Gamble kind of alluded to, we encourage them to be conservative in their estimates. And that's why I noted that that job growth they committed to of three people is really a conservative estimate. And then we look at any other conditional elements that were –
 promised, if you will, in the SB1 in their application packet that you all are looking at now. And those are the inherent clawbacks, if you will. If someone were to fall short of any of those, then we would be addressing that with both the tax abatement recipient, whoever that is, and with council.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you for that, Mr. Buckmeyer. I think we've got those questions answered. It's my understanding, President Scott, you've got some questions? Just real quick, Mr. Gamble, thank you for your commitment. How long will it be before you guys are up and running and active? And is there any infrastructure that you need to do in the building or around the streets or anything like that? Dan, you might know that too. But thank you again for your investment. Thank you.
 We are looking forward to it. There's a lot to do. We have target dates, but Bernie Lang from National Construction is our project manager. Bernie is on the call. Bernie, you might better answer that as far as target dates and things, you know, when we expect possibly to be up and running. Hello, I'm Bernie Lang with National Construction out of Madison, Wisconsin.
 This is the third project that I've worked with Midwest Family on. The first one was here in Madison, the second one was in Springfield, Missouri, where we were the owners rep there, and that went very well for Midwest Family, and that's why we were brought in for this South Bend project, I believe. So we're really proud and excited to be a partner in working together with Midwest on this.
 The way the schedule rolls out right now, demolition would start in late July. Construction would start in early August, mid August. And that would go through what we would say a hard construction through February of 2021.
 And then there's kind of a collaborative phase where we're the hard construction is done. You know, all the HVAC, electrical plumbing, all the windows are in. But the stations are all coming in, all the software, the hardware and all the racking and the things that really make those four stations run, which is like launching a rocket. Really, there's a lot of a lot of technology that goes into it, but they would be up and operational, I believe, mid-April. Yeah. So that's our timeline. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Sure. I saw that Councilman Davis had a follow-up, and I'm sorry if I wasn't clear. This is Dan Barkenmeyer. In my description about the quote-unquote clawbacks, I did, in fact, say, yes, we would discuss that with the company first, and then if there are issues that –
 You know, they want to appeal or they want to present to council. You know, every case is situational. But I think the answer you want to hear possibly is, yes, there can be clawbacks. And I won't pick on Midwest Family, but any tax abatement recipient, if they do not meet the requirements or the commitments they've made,
 when that tax abatement was granted by council is liable to lose and actually have to pay back that tax abatement. So, the clawbacks are real. I guess I just said that my comment that we would talk to the company and talk to council are simply, I guess, were my way of saying staff doesn't make that decision. Ultimately, council makes those decisions. So, I hope that...
 Provide some more clarity, Councilman Davis. It does, sir, and thank you. You know, I only asked that question because I wanted to be for the record. She asked the question. Those were her questions. I do already understand that as a process of enforcement, and I do understand that it relies on the council after a company is in default of this agreement.
 But we need to make sure that those things are a part of public records so it can be referred back to nothing against you, nothing against what you're doing. I appreciate the answer. I just wanted to make sure it was on public record.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. So we've got 10 minutes left until full council meeting. So I'd like to make sure we're keeping pace here. So I'd ask the rest of council if there are any other questions to reserve them for that time. And at this point, we'll open it up to the public. If there's anybody wishing to speak in favor of bills 2007, 2009, or 2011.
 Chairman Tesco, this is Grant from the clerk's office. As a point of information, there have been no members of the public to establish themselves in the queue either before the meeting or in the chat room. Okay, perfect. So with that, then we, yes. This is Tom Kurzold. Can I ask one more question? Sure.
 Absolutely. For the presenter, we have listed 23 jobs that are being retained and three created. I'm just curious if that 23 being retained is a reduction from the move from Mishawaka to South Bend. No, that's the current staffing level right now. All right, thank you. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Kurzweil.
 With that, we will move on to the next item on our agenda, which is bill number 20-13. We have a presenter for this bill. Council Member Tish, would you like to have a motion regarding this bill? Yes, thank you. I would like to make a motion that bill 20-07, 20-09, and 20-11 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 So I think we'll take roll call separately on those, but do I have a second on the motion for all three? I have, I second that. And Jake, you are prepared to roll call on each one. Right, yes. So we'll do roll call on 2007 and then roll call on 2009 and 2011. All right, 2007, Council Member Tashka. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Council Member McLaughlin.
 Council Member McBride. Council Member McBride. Have her mic on. Council Member McBride. Council Member White. Aye. One more time. Council Member McBride. Okay. I have on record three ayes. Clerk Jones, as a point of information, there's also the citizen member to vote? I keep forgetting. I'm sorry, Mr. Curzell. Mr. Curzell. Aye.
 I OK, I have four. It's Councilmember McBride in yet. OK, OK, that's four eyes OK. Please move on the next bill. OK, I will do bill number 2009 Councilmember Tesco Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Councilmember McBride.
 Council member White. Aye. I'm here, but I was on mute. I couldn't speak. I've been here the whole time. I'm sorry. Okay. And Mr. Curzo. Aye. Okay. So we have five ayes, so I will go back. And 2007, council member McBride. Aye. Thank you so much. Uh-huh. Okay. 2011.
 Mr. Curzo? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember McBride? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. And Councilmember Teske? Aye. Okay, we have five ayes, 420 a noes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, we'll move on quickly. Do we have a presenter for the next bill, 2013?
 Yes, sir. Dan Buckenmeyer again, Department of Community Investment, 14th floor of that building. So this next tax abatement in question, Bill 2013, is for Baymar Plastics Incorporated. They're located on the, also on the south east side of town.
 Baymar is looking to purchase additional equipment. So this is just a personal property abatement on new capital equipment that's being purchased about a $647,000 investment in total. We are very supportive of this again,
 Not just in this economic environment, but any economic environment. You know, it gives us to retain strong businesses and help them become stronger. In this case, we have a business that is...
 focused primarily in serving the automotive industry. This investment will allow them to diversify their business mix into the medical industry, make them stronger as a business, make them stronger for all of South Bend. They're a woman owned business located again in South Bend, 14 jobs will be retained and be that much more secure as a result of this diversification and at least one new job will be added.
 The rest is on there. I'm trying to move along in the interest of time. Would you like to hear from either CEO Heather or CFO Tricia from Baymar? I would say if we could do that with full council and with the time remaining, if there's from your reading of the packets from the committee, if there are any quick questions before we move on to full council.
 hearing none so we'll move to the rest of council are there any um quick questions uh pertinent to uh moving this forward to full council hearing none again um we'll go ahead and take a motion on the disposition for this chair i moved to um i'm going to move bill 20 uh resolution 20
 13 full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, it's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, if we could have a roll. Sure, Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Mr. Tom Kerrson. Aye.
 Okay, we have five minutes. Thank you. With that, this meeting will stand adjourned. Thank you, Chair Teska. To the most part, we'll just stay on, and we have two minutes before we'll start the formal meeting. Again, I'll ask Clark Jones to read the instructions on public input just so anybody who has come in for the 7 o'clock can hear that. And we'll be ready to go here in about two minutes. Thank you.
 I'm here now sorry for my absence earlier you all right quite all right y'all good yeah well we'll know in a few days okay not like they tell you same day that's not happening okay well thank you now for you okay thank you very much
 Council Member Hammond, this is Graham from the clerk's office. Council Member Davis timely got me the three questions that you had wanted to ask. I replied in the chat as well, email. You're welcome to ask those questions again in the full council meeting, but this will be recorded and you're welcome to hear their answers in the committee. I can help you get that as well. It'll be posted online too. Also, you can ask the same questions again, Corey, when we go through resolutions.
 Thank you. Okay, is everybody ready? Clark Jones, are you ready? Yes. Good evening. The Monday, May 11th, 2020 Common Council meeting has virtually started. This is our third virtual meeting by executive order by Indiana Governor Holcomb. We can have virtual meetings.
 And this will be our third one. This meeting is the first one. We'll have public input where the public can either write in or comment. And I'll have Clerk Jones, before we get into the business, state those instructions. Right now, I'd like to turn it over to the invocation to Council Member Jake Teschke. Mr. Teschke, would you please start? Thank you. Yes, if everybody would pray with me. Okay.
 Father God, we thank you for this day. We thank you for bringing us together virtually. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity that you presented us to meet in this way.
 Father, we thank you for our very breath. In your word, Psalm 150 says, let everything that has breath praise the Lord. And Lord, we are ever more cognizant of every day that we wake up with breath again in these times. Father, we pray that you would give us wisdom as we move through this meeting and make decisions on behalf of the residents of the city of South Bend. We pray that you would be with all those who are ill. Lord, all those who are...
 hurting because of the economic crisis that is going on right now in our country. We pray that you would help us as leaders in this city to empathize and to be with those people in spirit and also in deed. And Father, we just pray that you would bless us as we move forward from this meeting. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Mr. Tashka. Ms. Jones, would you please read roll call?
 Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. Henry's here. I'm here. I'm just having problems, but I got it going through. I'm here. Okay. Council Member McBride. Council Member McBride. Okay, I'll come back. Council Member Warner. Here. Council Member Teschke. Council Member Niesgowski. I'm here. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Present.
 Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President White. Present. President Scott. Present.
 I will move with reading the announcement. Good evening, members of the public and council members. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item,
 public, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following in the chat and the council president will call on you during the relevant time for public input.
 Again, my name is in state your full name and you live at which address and you will then be given three minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your response. Thank you, Ms. Jones. Is there a subcommittee on minutes? We have them, but I don't think I got them to you. No, that's fine. We need to work that out. That's one of the.
 Yeah, Mr. Smith, I see you earlier. We'll talk offline on that. As Mr. President, this is Grant from the Clerk's Office. Just as a point of information, they are, in fact, done and revised. They just haven't gotten to the subcommittee on minutes. So they are finished. They just haven't been examined by them. Understood.
 Now we'll move to special business. I've asked Mayor James Mueller to come and talk about COVID and anything else city-related. While we had a full meeting on that two weeks ago, this is going to be a briefer version of this. It'll just be a quick update, and we'll go down the line, two questions each from council. And Mr. Mayor, are you with us? I am, Mr. President. Okay.
 Thank you, sir. Good evening, council members. Mayor James Mueller within my office on the 14th floor of the County City building. And excuse me if I'm dodging here. There's the sun. We know summer's coming near, even though the weather doesn't seem like it right now, because the sun looking due west comes through even the blinds. And so I'm trying to avoid that directly into my eyes here. So if you see me shifting around, that's why.
 I will be brief given that we went through a pretty comprehensive overview of where things were and where we thought we were going. The first most notable thing is that quite a shift from just two weeks ago where many of us thought that given where the data was and where the trends were going,
 that we would still be under a stay-at-home order right now, at least through this week, if not beyond. And so that clearly did not happen. And so there was a change in strategy
 by the higher levels of government, where the first strategy that everyone was on board with was, let's contain this first wave, let's set up the testing and contact tracing infrastructure that was necessary to keep us safe and prevent future outbreaks for the rest of the year without ever having to shut down the economy again. And that's not where we ended up going. And so here we're
 health officials and health experts, we never fully got past this first wave. And given that we're opening up, there's a risk of this extended first wave to continue to accelerate over the coming weeks. So
 best analogy is we're in the eye of the storm right now and we hope that when the rest of the storm comes it won't be it'll be manageable and we're gonna find ways to try to prevent us from overwhelming our health care systems like we were all concerned about a couple months ago the threat has not changed substantially and although our testing capacity is up our infrastructure to
 to contain it is not where a lot of experts thought we needed to be.
 A quick update on the emergency declaration. That is continued in the executive order I issued last week. We continued that and council, the last resolution that you passed, you continued indefinitely. Given that we're still in a state of emergency, I'm not looking to end that anytime soon and hope that you will stick with that piece of it.
 The component that did expire at midnight earlier today was the travel advisory component.
 And one reason I extended it through last week, but one reason why it was set to expire is that in the governor's executive order, he limited the ability of different counties and cities to enforce the travel advisory. So without it being enforceable, um,
 Thought it was prudent to extend to just get the messaging out that even though everyone's talking about reopening, the threat still exists and we need to be vigilant. But now it's not enforceable, and so we have to look at other pieces. The state testing site at the Armory is up and running. It's going through some growing pains, but that should add to our local testing capacity as well.
 as we reopen further and the state's contact tracing program will be online hopefully later this week it's starting to come online but more so later this week with the volumes we have right now our local health officials feel com or confident that we can cover right now with our local contact tracing until that goes into place which is good and we are also
 preparing for needs for contact tracing if we do go up a curve that none of us want to see here in the next couple of months. That, you know, contact tracing and testing capacity go hand in hand. And so we'll continue to push at our higher levels to unlock the testing capacity to be able to manage future outbreaks.
 And so our best tools that we have remaining are encouraging people to behave responsibly. The health department's order on masks.
 Certainly, for indoor or when they're going into an indoor space and especially when you can't maintain physical distance, those are all positive measures that can help contain the spread. If you look across the world, the countries that implemented masks early on fared very well during the first wave.
 You know, the research is not fully clear, but it seems to be something that will limit the spread even as we reopen. And then the second or the next piece is making sure our local health officials are looking at the expansion of social gathering size. So we went from 10 during the stay-at-home order to 25 with the governor's exit order in the current phase. And then it ratchets up.
 until 250 by June. And then when we're supposed to be fully open by July 4th, there is no limit any longer. And so that means, for example, that the Brickyard 400 on July 5th
 that has oftentimes a half a million people would be allowed to go forward. Now, locally, we've our anchor institution, the University of Notre Dame, has postponed events of that size beyond, you know, there's a Billy Joel concert and other things
 If people are planning here to have events well above 250, there needs to be some caution to that, just given that we don't know where we're going to be in the next couple months. And so working with the local health officials to get some sort of clarity so that businesses can plan accordingly.
 If when they're seeing what everyone else is seeing, does that mean that there will be further restrictions from the local health department?
 In terms of the city plan to reopen, essential services continued uninterrupted through the stay-at-home order. VPA is the main department, but other departments, too, are working on finalizing a phased reopening plan that takes into account how things proceed in the next few weeks.
 Remote work continues to be, for those who can work from home, continues to be mandated, and we see that for the next several weeks. We'll revisit as we see what happens as the rest of our community opens up and where the curve goes.
 And so we can and we imagine that there will be some those who can work from home will have the option extended beyond whenever we we do bring people back here. Our boards and commissions who weren't considering essential business, much like the Common Council, is following suit and will start processing those business items in the coming weeks.
 And then finally for the COVID pieces, we really need to also turn attention to the targeted economic assistance. In the coming weeks, we'll have a better sense of what the fallout is from the stay-at-home orders and this first wave and start to see how we can move people forward, both residents and our small local businesses.
 Other items that we're looking to move forward, you know, we're excited for the council and the school board to take up the resolution and potential joint committee and following up on our historic meeting from February. So look forward to that resuming in the coming weeks.
 From public safety side, we are looking to start putting out a little more of a roadmap for the reform agenda that's been discussed over the past several months, as well as something where we're looking to move forward some compensation adjustments for our sworn police officers.
 This is not anything related to the COVID situation. It's related to the fact that we have a shortage of officers and our compensation had fallen behind where we needed to be. The proposal being considered is all within the existing budget. So there is not a request for additional dollars for 2020, just looking to start making progress on the overall compensation.
 And then finally, we're looking for economic development. The things on the agenda tonight are exciting that projects are still moving forward despite all of the economic uncertainty that the COVID crisis has brought. And so we're excited to keep those going forward and we'll look
 see who else is still willing and able to invest in our community throughout the recovery. So with that, we'll open up to any questions you have. Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate that. We'll go down, starting with the second district and work our way down per districts. Mr. Henry Davis, do you have a couple of questions for the mayor or a comment? Tim, and thank you, Mayor, for being present at the council meeting. We look forward to seeing you.
 in the future nothing else henry i didn't catch your first part oh i'm sorry uh can you hear me now we can hear you you got me okay no i i said i i didn't have any questions at all i said thank you mayor for coming and speaking with us and i look forward to seeing you in the future thank you sir uh we'll turn to the third district miss mcbride hello mr mayor thank you so much
 A couple questions. One, you talked about capacity and you talked about the armory being a new site. I know that they're independent of what the health department is doing. However, from my understanding, the impact of their testing is not increasing the overall availability of testing in general. I think we were talking about
 trying to test about 400 people a day, and I'm thinking that number is only at about 300 or the capacity of 350. Do you know why and if the number is going to increase? So the numbers could potentially increase if
 the um there's a long there's a long answer to this the numbers could potentially increase if those supply chain issues are solved and there is that there is a strategy that opens up testing to more individuals right now uh the testing has remained limited to those who who are exhibiting symptoms for the most part and and confirm symptoms and so um and
 It would increase, of course, if our numbers went up, which wouldn't be necessarily a good thing for us. And it could increase if we change the strategy in terms of who's eligible for tests. Right now, I have not gotten any... I haven't gotten strong indication that we're moving forward generally as a state or as a country to...
 expanding testing beyond this limited pool in general. So there are a lot of things that have to go into this. And of course, that's what experts had said we needed to reopen safely and be able to continue to stay open without facing an uptick in cases. So we're gonna continue to push testing and tracing as best we can and hope we can avoid
 nightmare scenario that we were able to do so far. Secondly, I know we talked about masks and we were having a discussion about trying to get masks with like city logo or emblems. And I talked to you and Casey about that. Do you know if there was any movement on that? If not, I could follow up with you all.
 Yeah, I think, I believe Aaron Perry, who worked on the shirts from VPA, is working on that as well. So we can follow up and get you the status on where that sits. And lastly, are we working on getting face masks as a city for all, enough for all city employees? That's my final question. I'll have to check. We did get masks for the essential workers, you know, the face coverings masks for essential workers. Yes.
 I'll have to see. But yeah, I mean, we can make sure that they have access to the ability to come to work and be safe. Thank you. That's all I have. Thank you, Ms. McGrath. We'll turn to 4th District, Mr. Troy Warner. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I look forward to seeing you.
 seeing you in person in the council chambers. And I think I don't have any questions. You know, I commend you, your communications
 have improved drastically from six weeks ago. I commend you with that. I think messaging is getting out and things like that. And I agree, until we get to a point where we can test beyond just people who have symptoms, we really won't know what our grasp is on this. You can see that just by some of the meat packing plants, they've gone in and tested all employees.
 They found that like 80% of people testing positive have no symptoms some of the prisons and jails have done the same thing so I think until we get to that point of
 where, and it's going to have to happen at a national level. Otherwise, we're all fighting each other for the same supplies, right? The same thing with PPE. I think we won't have a grasp on really how things have spread until that happens. But I continue to urge to push to that. And I think as important as the number of tests is the turnaround on the tests,
 getting a test result in under 24 hours or 24 hours is great. We've come a long way from six weeks ago where it was 12 days we were waiting, but, you know, it's still, it's tough on the individual, on the employer, on the company, on the families when you're waiting 36, 96 hours for a test. So I think that's also something we keep in mind as we move forward. But thank you for coming to see us and talk to us.
 Thank you, Mr. Warner. We'll turn to the 5th District. Mr. Teschke.
 Yeah, I don't have any questions at this point. Yeah, I would agree with customer Ward Warner that communication has been great and has improved and and I'd like to also think customer McBride for her daily updates. So I think you know we're all staying pretty pretty well informed. So it's not having any questions at this point, but.
 yeah i do and to i guess piggyback off of mr warner again in terms of talking about
 these mass tests that are showing up 80% non-symptomatic. I'll be interested to see the Fairbanks study when that comes back as well and being able to see how many folks have been exposed and asymptomatic to this. So I think that that's going to be a big factor moving forward. But no questions at this point. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Teschke. We'll turn to Ms. Nagoski. Hi. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for the updates. As everybody said, the communication has been really good.
 I kind of want to elaborate just a little bit on what Councilwoman McBride said. I guess my question is, if we know how long the armory is going to stay open, I know that is Indiana State Department of Health test site, and in their strategy with that site, do they have like a number in mind based off of our population as to how many they would like to test?
 or is it going to be based on if the numbers fluctuate up or down? So they did have a number in mind in terms of maximum capacity, and we have not come close to hitting that there yet. But I do not think that they've made that strategy shift where you would test people other than those with confirmed symptoms. Okay.
 for the most part. You know, there are first responders and there are certain exceptions to that. But generally, unless that changes, it will fluctuate with just the demand in terms of those with symptoms. So they haven't communicated that they want to test like 50% of our population or any strategy like that, if that would even be possible? No, I mean, this was announced a couple of days before the announcement of...
 the stay-at-home order expiring. And, you know, there are a number of sites across the state that the governor announced, and they had targets. But even if we hit the maximum capacity at the armory and our providers are able to maintain, you know, their peak levels as well, we're still short of that broader strategy that a lot of experts thought would be required to keep the
 to contain future waves. So we're a ways away from that and right now the capacity even at the armory isn't near the peak that had been targeted for. But some of that's growing pains, we expect that to improve as the facility goes.
 We'll hope I mean, we hope that we don't rise in the curve over the coming weeks, but public health. I haven't seen a public health expert say opening up is going to lead to a declining number of cases. So but we'll have to wait and see.
 And may I ask one more question? In reference to PPE, I know the governor stated that they were going to have the state marketplace that businesses should try to tap their own resources and then use them as a secondary resource.
 Has the state mentioned anything about getting out to cities PPE resources so that we could have our own marketplace within the cities, or has that conversation not come from the governor? Well, they have the state stockpile, like you mentioned. They haven't talked about having branches of that stockpile. We can check with them. But yeah, I don't see, I think they believe they can handle the demand, but
 We can check. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Nagatski. Now we'll go to the at-large council members. We'll start with Ms. Hammond. Thank you, Mayor Mueller. Thank you for being with us once again to updating us this evening. I do have, I don't know if it's a question or a concern, we see these images from around the country.
 of masses of people gathering, be it in restaurants or other venues or just outside. And I'm wondering what the, how do we disperse these? How do we convince people that this is just not within the guidelines of what the governor has advised for us at this point? Yeah, I mean, so the existing...
 the governor's orders and then the face mask order. The face mask order issued by the health department is enforceable by the health department. And they are looking to, to enforce that. Like most, uh, like most actions, uh,
 A lot of it is most people do follow the guidance and the law and the rules without having to come in and enforce. And you've seen this across the country where states that were slow to impose stay at home orders.
 you saw similar levels of people were staying at home before the governor in their states imposed that order. And now with the easing up of restrictions in some states, you're seeing some easing up in even states where the orders continue. And so there is a large part of this is individual actions and how they feel where we are.
 in terms of the threat. And so that's why it's critical for us to be continuing to share the message that the threat is still there. It still persists.
 We're not in substantially better shape than we were a couple months ago when almost everyone was staying at home. So trying to influence behavior by the right message. And we are working to develop, you know, figure out what are the effective messages in terms of,
 of moving behavior. In terms of the governor's order, he's still enforcing his order via the same avenues as the stay-at-home order, and so there are those state levels of enforcement as well. Again, he didn't do a lot of enforcement actions across the state, if you look at the number. And similarly, even here locally, we would go after blatant
 violations. You know, there were a couple large parties that are
 officers did break up but by and large we weren't if people were walking around you know following generally following we weren't going in enforcing the stay-at-home order in that way so a lot of it is just winning the hearts and minds of our fellow residents and convincing them that the danger is still there and we need to be careful and the better
 I know we all agree that we want a unified message and an approach coming from all levels of government. It's difficult. Obviously, there was a moment of...
 changing that when our strategy shifted abruptly from above and there was not full agreement among all different parties about whether that was the wisest choice. But making sure we have a unified message and getting the effective message out so that people behave responsibly and safely. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Ms. Hammond. We'll turn to Rachel Tomas-Morgan. Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Thank you again for being with us this evening.
 I just, like others, want to thank you for your communication and I want to thank you especially for your responsiveness every time I reached out to the Mayor's office and to your department heads. I've received quick response so really appreciate that over the past couple months.
 I have a question. This is likely not fair to ask you. It's most likely directed to our health official, but when you talk about the curve that we don't want to see, what are we looking at specifically? Can you say anything about the metrics that our county health department
 are looking at and would be concerned about and would want to take additional mitigation efforts if they see XYZ continue to rise. What are those? Yeah, that's it. We're pushing on them to continue.
 Give bounds in terms of what we might see and what actions might be taken, because, again, if if we're if the business community and other organizations are able to plan, seeing, oh, we're we're starting to move up. And that means maybe in a couple of weeks, you know, a limit on social, you know, as well.
 a greater constraint on social gatherings from our local health officials relative to the governor's reopening plan may be coming. We do not have those protocols developed yet, and by we I mean our community and our local health officials, and that's something that we have talked about and are working on generating, but right now we don't have those.
 Thank you. And just my final comment, and just to reiterate what you know, what you and what you have said before that this is all our responsibility now. I mean, what has happened really amounts to a citywide experiment that hinges on individual decisions of all of us and hope that everyone does the right thing by wearing masks and respecting the
 the orders put forth by the health officer. And I know we each carry the heavy responsibility to communicate that message. And also just want to note to the media how important it is, their role in pushing that message. I appreciate the headlines of the past couple days about
 You know, needing to be cautious and reiterating the health officers' orders. So I want to thank the media for that and want to encourage them to continue to help us push out those important messages. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Tomas-Morgan. Now I'll turn to Vice President Karen White.
 Yes, I only have one question to you, Mayor. First, we'd like to thank you for meeting with us. This is an important time, not only for us individually, but for our city as well. So we really appreciate you taking the time to come and to address us, but also to answer our questions. I only have one question, and that question is that we have seen...
 a tremendous, not I would say a tremendous, but an impact in regards to the COVID-19 virus within certain zip codes within our community and also within certain communities of color. So do you have a sense of what,
 is being done or what should be done. I do know that vegan health centers have been in the community and trying to encourage individuals who have the symptoms to at least come and be tested. But are there any things that we can do from a city perspective? But also how can we as individual council members help, especially in those zip codes that have been identified? Yeah, I mean, I guess the
 The good news of the elevated numbers in certain areas means that we have been able to expand access to testing, because those are confirmed cases via testing. So the efforts to get those mobile testing sites and move testing beyond where it was in the first few weeks of the pandemic
 is encouraging that at least we have that infrastructure in place across the community now. The bad news is that there seems to be emerging disparities here and across the country where people who are more vulnerable or less, just generally that have trouble in normal times are having a bigger challenge in life.
 in this crisis. And so part of that is it could be communication and it could be you think of, well, who are the,
 who are the folks who had to continue going to work in potentially challenging conditions and who was able to continue working from home. And there's a disparity in that as well. So as we do open up, there will be, I guess, more of an equalizer because everyone at some point will be –
 getting exposed at similar rates. But in terms of overall health, we know that is a perennial issue that we have health disparities by incomes and by race in normal times. And those are still present and they seem to be exacerbating the impacts of this virus because those with underlying conditions are more at threat from the virus.
 Do you see anything that we can do as council members working within our, you know, various districts and how can we help to get that information out to our constituents? So it's, I mean, it's similarly figuring out that effective message to let people know of the threat and what are the ways to stay safe. But as the, as there's a
 Obviously, my opinion on our reopening schedule, I believe there's been a rush to reopen. And that means that more workers are going to have to choose between staying and getting their unemployment benefits or going to work and potentially putting themselves at risk. And that's a choice. That's a terrible choice to put on someone between.
 being able to put food on the table and maintain your residents versus trying to maintain your health. And that's one of the many reasons why I oppose the quick rush to reopening our economy. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate your communication with this council and individual council members as well. And I want to also show gratitude to Committee of the Whole Chair, Sharon McBride, for her
 taking the lead on communicating with the council what's going on with the COVID virus and being part of that committee and the communication for that. So I want to thank you all for your questions. I don't have anything at this time, so I appreciate your input right now, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, with that, we'll move on. That pretty much was report from city offices, the city office. So there are no special business reports.
 Oh, we cover special business. No report from city offices. Now I'll entertain a motion, join and rise committee of the whole. So move, Karen White. Is there a second? Thank you. All in favor, Ms. Jones, roll call. Council member Davis. Aye. Council member McBride. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye.
 Councilmember Katashka? Aye. Councilmember Naskowski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President White? Aye. President Scott? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. We'll turn it over to Committee of the Whole Chair, Sharon McBride.
 Thank you. The meeting of the whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bill that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chair of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 Ms. Jones, would you please read Bill number 10-20? 10-20, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South St. Indiana, retroactively amending annexation ordinance number 10629-18, Old National Annexation Area, to correct Scribner's error in legal description.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. There is a committee report that this was sent to the Discussion Committee of Zoning and Amnesty and sent to the council with a favorable recommendation. Is there a petitioner present?
 Yes, good evening. Michael DeVita, principal planner with the City's Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. This bill is for the property at the northeast corner of State Road 23 and Douglas Road, which was added to the City through a voluntary annexation in late 2018. The legal description in the annexation ordinance incorrectly listed the property as being in the southwest quarter of Section 29.
 when it's actually in the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 29. So the ordinance here would make the correction to the legal description with all the other terms of the annexation remaining the same. So I ask for your approval tonight. I'll be happy to take any questions you might have. Thank you, I appreciate that. I will turn to council. Are there any comments? No. Thank you.
 Thank you so much at this time I will open up and ask. Was there any comments or questions from the public? Council Member McBride, this is Graham from the clerk's office. There has been no one in the chat that has reserved the spot to speak for bill number 10-20 as part of the public process. Thank you so much. I will turn back then to council for final comment and discussion.
 Seeing none, I will ask that someone entertain a motion. I make a motion to send 1020 to the full council federally. Troy Warner seconds that motion. Please give the roll call. Yes, Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Aye. Council Member Tasca. Council Member Tasca. Aye.
 Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. President Scott. Nine ayes. Thank you. I will send Bill Number 10-20 to the Council with a full recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full Council.
 So move also woman white a second favor any opposite. We gotta take a roll call again. OK, Council Member Warner Council member Tesco Council member task. OK Council Member Neskowski I Council Member Thomas Morgan Council Member Hammond I Vice President White I Council Member Davis.
 Council Member McBride. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes. Thank you. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. Ms. Jones, would you please give third reading to 1020? May I real quick share, please, before that? I think that I'm correct on this, but if I'm wrong, please correct me. The next few, am I reading this right? The next few will be all about the same thing.
 Business, right? Or am I wrong? Mr. Davis, that's under resolutions. We got to- I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're right. You know, correct me. All right, go ahead. Sorry. No problem. Okay. All right. Bill number 1020. Third reading of an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana, retroactively amending annexation ordinance,
 Number 10629-18, Old National Administration Area to correct scrivener's error in legal description. Is there a motion? I move that bill 1020 be adopted. I second. Ms. Jones, roll call please. Council Member Tashka. Council Member Tashka. Aye.
 Council Member Nieskowski? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President White? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member McBride? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. President Scott? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. We'll move to resolutions then.
 Ms. Jones, would you please read 20.07?
 2007, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, primarily known as 316 East Monroe Street, South Bend, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year real property tax abatement for WSJM-E.
 Chair, this is Henry again. This is what I was talking about. For purposes of the bill 07-09, don't we have the ability to read those together? And 2011. That's why I jumped the gun on the last thing. That's fine. If you want to make a motion to hear all three at the same time, that's excellent.
 Well, I'm going to make a motion that 2007, 2007, 2009, and 2011 be all read together. Second. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Jones. Roll call on that motion. Okay. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teschke. President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Ms. Jones, would you please read 2009 and 2011 related to 2007 so we can hear all three at the same time. Okay. 2009, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend commonly known as 316 East Monroe Street.
 South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for WSJM-E.
 Resolution 2011, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 316 East Monroe Street, South Bend 4601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year vacant building tax abatement for WSJM-Inc.
 Thank you, Ms. Jones. Is there a committee report? There is. The Community Investment Committee met earlier this evening and bring this bill forward to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Is there a presenter? State your name and address, please. Yes. Thank you, Council. This is Dan Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development and Community Investment, 14th floor of the City-County Building.
 So the three abatements that and thank you for allowing us to bundle these three. These are for Midwest family broadcasting, also known as WSJM. They are former residents of South Bend and look to come back and invest in a building in South Bend as a result of support from the city.
 If we go to the next slide, you can actually see where they are proposing to purchase.
 It is on the that's the just South of the post office just east of the baseball field there. So a long vacant building and the next slide shows the condition it's in and why the city staff is excited to see this being repurposed. Our worst fears were that this very unique building shown in the next slide
 It would be difficult for any company to reasonably want to refurbish based on the fact that it's windowless, it's concrete, it's got a lot of design and rehabilitation challenges.
 Ironically, we found the needle in the haystack, the company and use that is perfect for this building. There will be some windows in it, there will be a considerable amount of refurbishment
 beautifying of the site and building, which we are very excited about. It really repurposes something that's been sitting vacant for several years. So a win-win-win for the city residents and for the company involved. All three of these abatements are for a five-year term
 Two are related to the property itself. One is a vacant building abatement, which eases the current tax load for the building itself. The next is a real property tax abatement, which for that five-year period would mitigate the increase in tax value or tax assessed based on the assessment assessed value.
 And then the final piece is a personal property tax abatement, which abates the taxes on capital purchases. So the things they'll put inside that building, such as the four radio studios, radio station studios, offices and so on and so forth.
 It's a great investment for South Bend. Were it not to happen, it would continue to pay less than $12,000 a year annually and continue to decline in value. By providing the support, council will assure that they make this investment, that they're able to reinvest as much as possible into the building and the site itself.
 And then at the end of those five years, the will more than triple the actual annual tax revenues from that. So absolutely a positive for both the city and the organization.
 I'll stop there, unless there are any questions, and allow Mr. Bill Gamble from Midwest Family to give a little more history and view of the project. Thank you, everyone, for allowing me to be part of this evening. Mr. Gamble, just real quick, for the record again, your name and address, please. Bill Gamble, South Bend.
 Mr. Gamble, this is Graham from the clerk's office. Could you please give just your mailing address for like a headquarters? Sure. Bill Gamble, 6641 Dockside Drive, South Bend. Thank you, sir. Much appreciated. WSBT first signed on the air back in July of 1922.
 It has a long history of being part of South Bend. The original call letters to the radio station were WGAZ, World's Greatest Automotive Zone, which, as I said before, was a nod to Studebaker. In 1925, they changed the call letters to WSBT.
 As probably everyone knows, it ties into South Bend Tribune, WSBT Television. We were all owned by the Schurz family. In 2008, the radio stations and television stations left South Bend and moved to Mishawaka, a beautiful building on Douglas Road. We were purchased in 2015 by Midwest Family.
 Now that building has three different tenants. It has Schur's, it has Sinclair Television, and Midwest Family. We want to have our own building. Radio stations are difficult to move. It's a once every 20 or 25 year project. Usually you don't move, you just refurnish and re-equip.
 When we decided we're going to move, we figured WSBT is as much a part of South Bend as any business. And as I said before, we want to celebrate our 100-year anniversary there. And we're looking forward to being part of not just South Bend, but downtown South Bend. Thank you, Mr. Gamble, for that. I'll turn it over to counsel. Are there any questions at this time for either the petitioner or the presenter? No, President Scott, I don't have any. Please, when we go back to the comment phase, I do have comments.
 Okay, this is okay. I do have one question. This is Lori Hammond. Go ahead, Miss Hammond.
 The 23 jobs that are stated, are those existing jobs or are these newly created jobs that will be brought to South Benton? I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. No, that's fine. They're existing jobs now. We're taking existing jobs that are currently here at our location in Michawaka and they'll be moving to South Benton. Any other questions?
 Well, one other question. Are you anticipating of any additional hiring? Yeah, I think we projected over the next few years at least increasing by three. As I said earlier tonight, I think that's a conservative estimate. We didn't want to put something down that we couldn't deliver on, but we will expect to hire more people. The building has space for that.
 We're going to be using primarily the upper floor, but we have room for expansion on the lower level. And the personal property abatement, that's for equipment, am I correct? Yes. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions?
 Hearing none, we'll open up to the public. Mr. Sparks, are there any comments or anybody from the public wishing to speak in favor or against? Mr. President, this is Graham from the clerk's office. No one has been in a queue for a public comment. I yield. Thank you. We'll come back to council for comments. Mr. Davis? Yes.
 Thank you. I just wanted to tell the petitioner and the company, I appreciate your reinvestment back in the South Bend. Happy to have you back. Thank you for coming back to the 2nd District as well. We welcome you with open arms.
 What I will say to you is that that investment in that corner is sorely, sorely needed. I'm not going to talk about some of the horror stories I get about that corner or even sometimes in that neighborhood. But that is a transient neighborhood for a couple of different reasons. So I think you're going to provide.
 a level of excitement and some energy to their to that area to help spruce it up but one thing i will say to you uh and and i think that this will probably really go well there is an active neighborhood association in that area it's called monroe park neighborhood association
 I can get the information to you, but I would say that as we are moving back through this coronavirus pandemic, that you get in contact with some of the leadership with that particular neighborhood organization and speak with them about what's going on. And that you're coming in and you're helping to raise the area.
 And that you'll be looked upon and seen as a partner as well for the neighborhood. I think that will go over really well. They're pretty active. They're very active. They love their neighborhood. And they just want to see more investment just like any other place. So thank you again. And I look forward to working with you. Thank you. And I will certainly take your suggestions on contacting the Neighborhood Association. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other questions from council or comments from council?
 President Scott, this is Rachel Tomas Morgan. I'd like to add a comment that I wanted to share in committee and to piggyback on Mr. Davis's comments. I just want to extend my thanks.
 My thanks and gratitude to Mr. Gamble. Welcome back to South Bend. We're pleased that you're coming back home. And it couldn't come at a better time, at a time when we're losing jobs. It's wonderful to know that we'll be retaining these 23 and bringing them to South Bend and creating some new positions moving forward. So thank you. Thank you.
 Good comments from both. Any other comments? Yes, this is Councilwoman White. We'd like to thank you and welcome you back home. As they have stated, there's no place like home. And we really appreciate your investment back to our city, especially during these very difficult times.
 And we look forward to working with you. As Council Member Davis has shared, he will be connecting you with a very active neighborhood association. So welcome back, and I wish you the very best. Thank you so much. Any other comments? Yep, this is Councilwoman Nesgatsky.
 I just wanted to congratulate you on your upcoming 100 years. Nizgatsky Plumbing was built in 1922 in this community, and I know what that's like to maintain almost 100 years of business. Not easy, but I would like to thank you for coming back and look forward to that 100-year celebration. Thank you. Any other comments? Seeing none, we'll open up for a motion. Move for passage.
 Second. Oh, hold on, Chair. Excuse me. I was trying to unmute. When we take the vote for these, we take these individually, right? Because they all work together. We just can't take one vote for all three.
 That's correct. OK, thank you so much. We would need a motion on all three. Yeah, that's all I was asking. I'll move for passage of 2007. Alright, Miss Jones roll call please. Council member Thomas Morgan. Council member Hammond I vice President White Council Member Davis.
 Councilmember McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teska? Aye. Councilmember Niesgowski? Aye. President Scott? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Miss Jones, or Ashley Council, is entertain a motion for 2009. Move for passage? Second. Okay. Miss Jones, roll call. Okay. Councilmember Hammond?
 Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Okay. Council Member Nizgatsky. Council Member Tomas Morgan. President Scott. Aye. And thank you for your investment. Nine ayes. Aye.
 I'll entertain a motion on 2011 please. Move for passage. A second. Okay. Vice President White, Councilmember Davis, Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teschke. Aye. Councilmember Neskowski. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. President Scott. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. Miss Jones, would you please read 2013?
 2013, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1702 Robinson Street, South Bend, 46613, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Bermara Plastics, Inc. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 There is. The Community Investment Committee met earlier this evening and bring this bill forward to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, sir. Presenter. Yes. Thank you, counsel. This is Dan Buckenmeyer, director of business development, DCI on the 14th floor of the city county building. So Baymar Plastics Incorporated is a local women owned business in the southeast side of South Bend there, southeast side of downtown, if you will.
 I want to thank Heather and Tricia for their patience. We'll bring them in in a moment. But even in the best of economic times, one of the cornerstones of our work in the business development team is to retain.
 and help to expand local businesses, make them stronger, so they are stronger for all of South Bend and all of their employees present and future. This is a great case of that and not the best of times. So we hope for your support in helping them to make an investment in about $647,000 worth of new equipment.
 The great thing about this is they have been primarily focused in the auto industry.
 This investment will allow them to diversify and expand their customer base into medical customers and again make them a stronger company for South Bend, for their employees and for their future employees. We plan to conservatively again hire at least one new person in the term of this tax abatement, which is again five years.
 Again, this is just a request to help them to be able to make this investment in some tough times and become stronger for our city. So I'll allow Heather and or Tricia to speak for a few minutes then. Thank you. If one of the owners would or one of the petitioners would speak on the.
 Oops, sorry, hit mute. If one of the petitioners would speak on the project, I'd appreciate that. Please state your name and address for the record.
 HEATHER MIXELL, So my name is Heather Mixell. I'm the president and CEO of Baymar Plastics, 1702 South Broadway Street, South Bend. Baymar is a 40-year-old company. It started off in the electronics industry. Most of that went to China. And after that, they pivoted into the automotive industry. That has been a challenge, although they've been very strong in automotive.
 Diversification is imperative. I came on staff six years ago with 30-some years of experience in manufacturing in general. So with this company, it has seen its fair share of updating. Everything from computers to machinery to people to training, we've been part of many programs.
 We've done extensive outreach here in South Bend with Manufacturing Day and being part of the city as much as we possibly can. You know, the key for Baymar has been to pivot into diversify.
 Automation is key for us, and that's really what we've been looking at and using. We will add at least one job, but we probably will be adding several jobs. It's not a mystery that there haven't been a lot of people looking for jobs in the manufacturing industry, so we're actually excited that that should flow more people into our direction. Our push this year and possibly...
 maybe a little bit opportunistic is reshoring Chinese tools into our shop and to our manufacturing facility. Okay, thank you. Did you state your name and address for the record? I don't recall. I did. My name is Heather Meixel and 1702 South Robinson Street. That's right. Sorry about that. I'm getting old, losing my memory. Right now, is there any question from Council? No.
 regarding this project for the petitioner or the presenter that's what I like not to hear so at this point we'll turn it back over to the public is there anybody from the public wishing to speak in favor against this proposal mr. sparks is there anybody with comments mr. president there has been no one to submit any place for the queue I yield
 Okay, we'll turn it back to council. Once again, we want to thank you also for your investment in the city. And any other comments from council members? This is Councilwoman Rachel Tomas-Morton. I'd just like to add my thanks to President Scott and to you, Ms. Mikesell, for your continued commitment to our city. It's wonderful to be supporting a woman-owned business.
 and to retain those jobs during these difficult times. So thank you for your commitment. Thank you, Ms. Tomas-Morgan. Anybody else wanting to make a comment? If not, I'll entertain a motion for this bill, this resolution.
 President Scott, may I address the council? It's Councilwoman Nizgatsky. Absolutely. Yeah, before we proceed under Section 2.8, I find it necessary to disclose that Nizgatsky Plumbing has done some work for Baymar Plastics. Yeah. Thank you for that disclosure. Mr. Palmer, how does that affect Ms. Nizgatsky's vote?
 I do not believe that this is a substantial conflict of interest. We've talked about this before the meeting. Any personal financial gain for Councilwoman Skotsky is minimal at best. So other than that, I don't see a substantial conflict of interest, which would cause her to recuse herself in any way.
 Okay, thank you. Any other comments from council? I'll entertain a motion. This is Rachel Thomas-McMillan. I'd like to move Bill 2013 to passage. Second. Thank you all. Ms. Jones, roll call, please. Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Davis? I'm here, Dawn. It just takes some time to click on and click off. It's slow. Just give me a moment now.
 All right. Aye. Okay. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member Nesbitt. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 We will now move on to first readings. Ms. Jones, would you please read 19-20? Sure. An ordinance to vacate the following described property, East End of St. Vincent, East of Eddy Street, from the western boundaries of Lodge 6 and 7 of Eddy Street Commons, Section 2, to the western boundary of the right-of-way of Georgiana Street, South End, Indiana.
 I'll entertain a motion to send those to Public Works and Property Vacation for 525. So moved. All right. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. President Scott, nine ayes. Thank you. Would you please read 2020? 2020, an ordinance to vacate the following described property, east end of Corby Boulevard, west of South Bend Avenue, portions of former Eddy Street,
 and South Bend Avenue right of way and cover the existing cul-de-sac north of Corby Boulevard and south side of Howard Street near the intersection of South Bend Avenue, a triangular piece of right of way within the limits of Old South Bend Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. I'll entertain a motion to send us the public works and property vacations for 525. So moved. I second.
 Okay. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Tashka? Aye. Council Member Nesgatsky? Aye. Council Member Tomac Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President White? Aye. Council Member Davis? I have a question. I'm going to vote aye. Are those two connected as far as location? The bill that we just sent to probably...
 Public Works and property vacation and this one that we're talking about. I have no knowledge of either one of them. So I'm Trying to connect some dots the petitioners those bills are different petitioners. So my guess would be they're not connected you're guessing They're also two separate locations, okay, that's what my question is, but something else is going on. I Councilmember McBride
 President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Now we'll turn to unfinished business. I'd entertain a motion to move the Monday, May 25th, 2020 Common Council meeting to Tuesday, May 26th, 2020, in reverence to Memorial Day. So moved. Second. Ms. Jones, roll call. Council Member Teska. Council Member Teska. Aye. Second.
 Council Member Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. I appreciate everybody on zero to one.
 Sorry, hit the mute again. On 03-2020, it was a special proclamation commemorating National Police Week and the Nation of Peace Officers Memorial Day. I was going to read that to the council for the record. I don't have it in front of me, unfortunately. I took it off my iPad, so I apologize for that. I believe you all have a copy of that.
 I have read that into the record at, uh, the police department and they are putting online a virtual, um, fallen officers, uh, memorial. They do a ceremony every year. Uh, of course they canceled it because of COVID. So, um,
 That is there. Oh, we do have it. So a little bigger, we can read it. If you're so inclined, I can read it if you want. You want me to read it? Yeah, go ahead. Special Proclamation 03-2020.
 commemorate National Police Week and the National Peace Officers Memorial Day, whereas in 1962, President John F. Kennedy proclaimed May 15th as National Peace Officers Memorial Day and the calendar week in which May 15th falls as National Police Week.
 and whereas the Paternal Order of Police Lodge Number 36 in the South Bend Police Department hold an annual memorial service to honor all police officers who gave their lives in the line of duty, and whereas among these fallen officers are 15 South Bend police officers, Oscar Christensen, Samuel Cooper, Lewis Keller, Hans Brandt, Fred Boulin, Neil McIntyre, Lloyd Thompson, Delbert Thompson, Charles Farkas,
 Senior Howard Wagner, Ronald Germain, Thomas Daru, Senior Scott Lee Severance and Carlos Otto.
 And whereas, although South Bend was fortunate in not suffering any such deep deaths in 2019, we should all remember and honor the 146 officers killed in the line of duty in 2019 and whose names will be added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C., together with the 60 officers who have thus far fallen in 2020 and who will be so honored next year. And
 Whereas the number of the line of duty deaths includes the deaths of officers due to 9-11 related illnesses, there have already been and will continue to be in line line of duty deaths related to the COVID-19 pandemic, for which fallen officers must also be remembered and honored. And whereas, although we implore whatever powers exist to keep all law enforcement officers safe,
 SO NO NEW NAMES ARE ADDED TO THE MEMORIAL IN THE FUTURE, WE MUST NEVER FORGET OR FAIL TO HONOR ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS WHO MAKE THE ULTIMATE SACRIFICE ON OUR BEHALF. NOW THEREFORE, WE GRATEFULLY PROCLAIM THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTHLAND, INDIANA AS FOLLOWED. SECTION ONE, IN OBSERVATION OF THE NATIONAL POLICE WEEK 2020, WE GRATEFULLY HONOR ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS GIVEN THEIR LIVES IN THE LINE OF DUTY. SECTION TWO, MAY THEIR NAMES GROW NO MORE. SECTION THREE, MAY WE NEVER FORGET.
 SECTION FOUR, MAY THEIR FAMILIES AND LOVED ONES FIND PEACE. SIGNED AND APPROVED THIS 4TH OF MAY 2019 IN THE CITY OF SOUTH BEN, COUNTY OF ST. VILSOR IN THE STATE OF INDIANA.
 Thank you, Ms. McBride, for reading that. And I appreciate every council member for adding their signature to that proclamation. I also want to thank Councilwoman Hammond for her input on adding line about COVID and their line of service during this time as well. And thank you, Bob Palmer, for putting that together in the clerk's office for us.
 Finalizing and putting the stamp and seal on it, a copy was given to the FLP, the police department as well. So they both have copies of that. Thank you so much. Now, is there any new business for this council?
 I would just like to add that our youth council, we're still meeting via Zoom. And on tomorrow, our guest speaker will be Senator Dave Naskowski. He'll be talking about his political journey and the importance of young people utilizing their voices. So if anyone would like to join in on that meeting, which is tomorrow at 530, please let Clerk Jones know so that we can send you the information.
 Thank you, Vice President White. Anything else from anybody? I would also like to ask Councilman Davis if he would not mind helping to contact either tonight or tomorrow someone from the Charles Black Center and the Neighborhood Association to let them know that Wednesday from 12 to 3, there will be another testing at the Charles Black Center for COVID and anyone who has symptoms if they don't mind getting tested.
 Do me a favor and just email me the information. I'll make sure it happens. Thank you. Thank you. President Scott, I do have a couple new business items. Ms. Hammond, go ahead. Okay, so the first item, enlisting the help of Downtown South Bend, asking them to serve as an ombudsman for downtown businesses.
 who are having a difficult time complying with the County Health Department's order to have patrons and workers wear protective face coverings. I've suggested this idea last week to Mr. Jeff Ray, who did not seem particularly concerned that this was an issue
 I do respectfully disagree. From what I've been able to glean from the media coverage, most if not all downtown businesses want to comply with the order to keep people safe as they open up.
 The economy, the difficulty for some, I'm going to assume is that while they want to comply, they may not have the ability to procure the necessary required items in order to comply. So I'd like to propose that the city through downtown South Bend.
 take the initiative to aid the businesses by periodically stopping by to check up on them, not in a punitive way at all, but in a constructive way. And if businesses are having difficulty procuring PPE, hand sanitizer, any of the other items, the DTSB could offer to assist by contacting the requisite city department who may be able to help
 In addition, I'd encourage anyone in the public to reach out to me via email to share their views on this matter to see if we perhaps could come up with a plan. Secondly, the issue that I have, over the last two weeks I've communicated to the Common Council leadership
 My concerns over the county's apparent suspending or proposal to suspend their leaf pickup, which will invariably lead to burning of leaves, thereby endangering the health of not only county residents, but city residents as well. The leadership took my concerns to the mayor as well as to the president of the St. Joseph County Council, Raphael Morton,
 I'm aware that Commissioner Deb Fleming is attempting to put together a committee to study the problem. It's imperative that any solution contemplated by the county result in a robust leaf pickup program that will discourage the burning of leaves. With a respiratory pandemic ravaging our country, we cannot take risks of this type.
 I wish to make the public statement of my concerns and open up this conversation to any city resident who shares my concerns. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Hammond. Is there anything else? Seeing none, Mr. Sparks, is there anybody there for privilege of the floor? Hey, Tim? Yeah, yeah. We're in privilege of the floor now? Yes. We're going to see if anybody's there for that. Mr. Sparks, is there anybody there for?
 Yes, Mr. President, there has been no formal request for queue for queuing for members of the public in the chat and before as well. So I yield my time. OK. All right. There's no one there for privileged floor. What was that? I don't want to prolong the meeting. You know, I wanted to touch back on why I asked that question about those two bills over there.
 And I'm going to ask for maybe your leadership or someone's help with this. Years ago, like in 2008, the council adopted the 80th Street Commons plan. And it was filled with all kinds of goodies. And here most recently, we're looking at a conversation that was had with the Board of Public Safety to install a, God, what was that called? A substation, a police substation.
 um didn't know that we were still actively doing things because part of the governor's ban but somehow something like that happened my my um my decision to say something about this is only because you know based on the plan in 2008 that we voted in into current day that whole project has literally taken over that east side
 I don't want to get blindsided again with an immeasurable amount of information to make a decision about something that's going to continue to impact.
 downtown area. We didn't have a discussion in 2008. As a matter of fact, we thought it was awesome that Energy Street Commons was coming on board and we'll have a whole new retail place. Well, the problem is that was great, but the bad part about it was that it negatively impacted the development in our downtown area.
 So we have to have a little bit more information and conversations about what's going on and what's connected to 80th Street Commons and the development of it in those neighborhoods. That's at least to the downtown area. I don't think it will be smart for us to just blindly say, OK, Senator property vacation and public works. We're going to vote on it for second or third reading and we're going to move forward.
 There are consequences behind every vote that we take, good and bad. And I'm not saying any of those things that we just voted for were bad or even good. But I think that and I know that based on experience, I recognize that we need more information, especially when it comes from that area. I understand. And I suggest that you have a conversation with Mr. Teshka and his committee to talk about that.
 downtown, you know, there, there is some data that needs to be shared with that. Um, one kite, uh, kite, uh, realty and kite projects, our properties are the one that donated the, uh, space for the substation, not only for our cops to use it, but also for their off duty cops to use that space. We're just kind of welcome more than anything. Uh, the other thing too is, uh, there's been, uh,
 We'll see what the impact is to downtown with COVID virus, but South Bend definitely has been growing. So I think what you're asking for is excellent. You know, we can continue that conversation with Mr. Teschke's committee. One thing I do want to say about downtown, if you haven't, please encourage people to use downtown businesses. My wife and I, we've been...
 We've been purchasing dinner, takeout, carryout on a fairly regular basis. So just came from Cafe Navarro on Friday night. So plenty of big and small restaurants downtown that could use the business as well. So with that, thank you, Mr. Davis. With that, we are adjourned.
 Good night, everybody. Good night. Thank you. Good night. Thank you. Stay healthy and safe. You all as well. Thank you, clerk's office.