or get antibiotics, had to get tested, but it was all good. It turned out to be negative. Good. Glad to hear it. Hi, Henry. Hey, what's going on? How's everybody doing? Good. How are you, Henry? Hey, I'm here. I'm here. That's good. Yeah. It's nice. Good to be here. I'm breathing. I'm in good health. It's kind of hot outside, but it's better than that below zero weather that we had.
 So Sheila, when did your power come back? Last night around 7. They looked like they still had to replace one more pole down the street here. I don't think everybody quite had one back in our neighborhood, but quite a few. They replaced 30 poles on the west side. Do we know if there were any problems with people because of the heat and the lack of electricity?
 Not to the people that I talked with. Well, people I talked to mostly was like from here, the other side of Sample. Most people were just, well, it was scattered outages too, but we were hanging in there. We were the last, literally the last, I think, less than 200 people to get power.
 I'm glad it's back up. Yeah, but it was nice. A lot of the neighbors came together, helping each other out. I've seen a lot of acts of kindness all through the neighborhood. Yeah, we still had a few people out over on Leland, Cottage Grove, Woodward area. But you're right, Sheila. You know, people lending generators to other people, moving generators around, helping people out. It was pretty cool. How are you all?
 How's everybody? Hello. Good. Is that Don? Yes. Hi Don. Because that's where it's cool. I'm in my basement because that's where it's coolest.
 Somehow that power knocked out something with our AC unit. So I'm glad I'm in my woman cave down here. Yeah. Yeah, we didn't have power for like 12 hours and it came on in the Sunday morning and then it went back out for a couple more hours and then it finally came on and stayed on for good. You know, for someone that's listening to me, I'm having a real difficult time finding power.
 The council packed for this particular meeting. I don't know what I did. I'm still trying to get used to this outlook that we have. And as it relates to my phone, so I could have deleted it inadvertently. The way it shows up on my phone is way different than it shows up on this laptop that I'm on right now. But neither here nor there. I'm still in need of that particular packet to refer back to it throughout this council meeting. And I can't find it.
 Is that for committee or council Henry? I have the committee notice and that sheet, but I'm talking about just the council. If somebody could just email it to me, I probably deleted it by accident. Yeah, I'm sure Graham can help you out with that Henry. I appreciate it. You know, I don't know what happened to it. I saw it. I looked at it. I just probably killed it when I was going through my phone. Okay. Are we all ready to start?
 So it's 6.15. Troy, if you want to go ahead and start your health and public safety committee. Thank you, President Scott. Kind of looking at the...
 The list of people we've got here, it looks like I'll go through and do a roll call, I guess. We've got myself, Vice Chair McBride is on the call. I've seen and heard Council Member Nitzgatsky. I've not seen or heard Council Member Tomas Morgan. I am on here. Mr. Morgan just turned out to be on.
 And I see we've also got our citizen member. Glad to see Desmond Eppchurch has joined us. I am here, yes. And so our one item on our agenda is Bill 20-015, resolution and I'll turn it over to the presenter on the resolution.
 Give me one moment please. Just one moment. Sure. There we go. Thank you, Bianca. Okay, thank you. Members of the committee and council, Henry Davis Jr., council member, second district, as well as Lori Hammond, co-signer on this particular document. I want to be as brief as I possibly can. I don't know if that's going to happen.
 The idea behind this particular piece of legislation, this resolution itself, is to call the governor to task on how we are looking at early release programming for our prison system.
 As you're aware, and we all are aware, the reason why we're even meeting the way that we are, the COVID has turned our lives into a different way of communicating, not only the communication itself, but also the way that we deal with each other physically.
 There has been multiple deaths at different facilities throughout the state. There has been people who have gotten really, really sick and really, really ill. We do know that most of our prisons are overpopulated. And we can even relate this conversation to our local jail as well. So the idea is to ask for an early release program that makes a little bit more sense about releasing people early.
 Even Kwame Kilpatrick even got out here recently because of it. So now it's kind of like a joke, so I might laugh. But the idea is that we are wanting to push the governor and our state officials to looking at how an early release program happens and works for the betterment of society. I don't think anyone signed up.
 And this goes to the employees of the prison systems. They signed up to be in there and die from something that is as commutable as this COVID-19 is. So we want them to remain safe as well as some of the prisoners in there as well. Social distancing in the prison systems obviously will be a difficult task because, you know, you're packed in like sardines.
 So if there is an idea or a time to call this to question and hopefully get something implemented, obviously this will be the right time. We don't know what the fall is going to bring us. That has been a discussion for a very long time about the fall and what happens in the fall as it related to a second wave or not.
 I pray that we don't have it, but all indicators lead to the fact that it will be like that. So you're even having a situation now where it may be even worse in the fall, and there is no reasonable plan in place to say, we're going to break the system down by 10%, 5%, or whatever that percentage number is to get people out, not free of any, free and clear of any charges that they are serving, but put it into practice
 that allows them to serve the rest of their time outside of the prison walls so that we can get some more room in there and people can be as safe as possible. I digress. Laura, you can have the floor. Thank you. I just wanted to bring forth some of the statistics around this issue. There is an organization called PrisonPolicy.org that advocate for the prisoners around the nation.
 And they project that the state of Indiana could safely decrease their prison population by 21%. If they released those that had less than one year and had completed up to 50% of their initial sentence, they estimate that there is approximately 5,662 current inmates that could be released.
 The ones that are mentioned in the resolution and are most at risk, such as those over the age of 65, those with autoimmune compromises, those that perhaps are receiving chemotherapy or some type of high-risk treatment.
 THOSE WOULD BE THE FIRST ON THE LIST. I ALSO LOOKED INTO WHAT SOME OF THE STATES AROUND US ARE DOING. IF YOU LOOK AT ILLINOIS, THEY HAVE RELEASED 4,700 PRISONERS UP TO THIS POINT. AGAIN, NON-VIOLENT, THOSE THAT HAVE COMPLETED THE MAJORITY OF THEIR SENTENCES. THE STATE OF MICHIGAN HAS RELEASED APPROXIMATELY 1,000 PER MONTH SINCE THE,
 initial COVID issues began and our own state, Governor Holcomb is basically leaving it up to the local jails and the county jails to decide what to do and not following the prison policy.org recommendations. So that's what I have. So we'll get the rest of the time back to. Thank you. Thank you.
 Do we have any committee members with questions or comments?
 Yeah, I would like to say thank you for the resolution, but I also want to give kudos to the sheriff and to our local court systems and even the county as it do come because soon as the COVID struck, St. Joe County, jail, South Bend Police Department and Dukum Center specifically has released all of our low risk offenders.
 and also stopped arresting low risk felons on the street as well. So we had...
 cut the number of people down in the jail tremendously. And I released about 70 to 80 clients from work release to home detention. So I think you guys are right on task and track. So with the governor giving us the autonomy to do so, South Bend specifically, St. Joe County has been progressive and aggressive with releasing low level offenders. So I think it's a great deal. Any other committee members?
 Mr. Warner, I have some questions. So as I and the co-sponsors can answer any of these and anyone else with information that could help me here. So as you as you summarized, our governor directed. Well, it was actually the Indiana Supreme Court who had authorized local courts to authorize.
 modify sentencing during COVID. And so I guess my main one question I have is the resolution is directed to the governor, but I wondered if that was a, I guess the power of the governor here is a question I have. And secondly, she,
 Wondering if the resolution to some extent is misdirected and should be directed to Indiana Supreme Court justices or local judges in this case. So you're questioning. What is your question again? I'm sorry. Are you is it.
 I mean, I just want to clarify that in light of what had happened during COVID, it was the Indiana Supreme Court who had authorized our local judges to modify and suspend sentencing during this time and releases. And so, yeah.
 Is your intention still to direct this resolution to the governor rather than to Indiana Supreme Court justices or local or local local judges or prosecutor? This is a state matter. It goes to directly to the governor. I wouldn't send it to.
 local prosecutor or local judges at all. As far as the Supreme Court, never thought to do that. That may even be a good idea. But the target was the governor's office because obviously he's the governor. He's in control of the state. I don't know if I've got the other question, but I think I understand it as to, you know, maybe it's misdirected. I don't think you can ever believe that it's misdirected at all. I think it's going directly to where, you know, it needs to be heard.
 I agree. So can someone just clarify for me then, and the governor has executive power to be able to modify sentences and order releases? Yeah, I have some doubts about the ability of the governor to take all of the actions requested, I think.
 Why do you have doubt? I, you know, my concern is that we're, what's wrong? OK, the governor does not have what power? He doesn't appoint the Supreme Court. Doesn't he handle the issues that go along with the prison system in the state of Indiana? So we're doubting the powers of the governor.
 Maybe our council attorney can help us here, but my understanding of Civics 101 is that the Indiana Supreme Court is a separate power. The governor. Correct, and if there are disputes with actions taken by the governor, those will be resolved by the courts, but he does not need the courts to be able to enact certain powers. If I could try to clarify, this is Bob.
 The Supreme Court has authorized the local judges and prosecutors to make these types of releases. I believe that this resolution is calling for the governor to specifically work with local judges and prosecutors, more or less to encourage them to release these individuals. So in some sense, I mean, the governor has already done that by extending –
 I mean, Indiana Supreme Court, Indiana Supreme Court during this time has acted to authorize local judges to make these decisions. I just wanted our co-chairs to clarify or understand what the actions have been up to here. So it is your understanding and that we're all clear about that.
 So we're very clear on that. Currently the governor has spoken regarding testing within the prison system. He has talked about
 trying to make sure that the workers within the prison system are kept as safe as possible, but there has been no conversation directly from the governor talking about early release and trying to decrease the population within the prisons. I think it would be a very strong statement for the governor to make to help to motivate the local communities
 to actually do more than we have seen in the state of Indiana. Now, Lori, I have a- Do you have any other questions? I do, Mr. Chair. I just want to make a distinction between the local government and the state. There's a difference because we have been in contact with the governor and that's one of the reasons when we've all been working together releasing people, but there's a philosophical difference. The state level is totally different than what we've done locally.
 And it sounds like what I'm hearing, the request on a local level, but on a state level, we need to have some more work done. Council Member Nitzkowski.
 Yes, if the goal of this document was to try and get offenders released, which I think the document is a good document. The part that troubles me is number four, where it says discouraging the use of electronic monitoring. Because if you have somebody that's due to be released in 12 to 15 months, and they're not a nonviolent offender, but could have the opportunity, because maybe it was...
 something that would warrant the use of electronic monitoring. I mean, wouldn't that kind of be defeating the purpose of trying to get people out of prison early if that means was available? Many of the counties don't have the means, the financial means with which to be able to do that type of monitoring. And I've also talked with you about that before, Councilmember Nieskowski. You get released in prison, or let's say Henry gets released from prison.
 I think it would be very difficult for Henry to attain a job, especially with, you know, all the unemployment that's going on right now. So how can I pay for electronic monitoring without a job or the means to pay for it? So there is another way or alternative getting that done, this will be it. But if we can discourage having them.
 price on one's head as they walk out, knowing that it's not going to work and they probably will reoffend because they don't have the money to take care of themselves. I think we can be a little more creative in a way. And I'm talking about the state, talking about the state and how we handle that. Thank you. Mr. Upchurch, do you have any comments or questions, sir? I do have a
 Have we went to the jail to see if there is an issue before we add a resolution to see if there can't be something done within the inside of the confines of the jail? And the second part of that is, if so, before you send up a resolution, I think we should.
 take a field trip or go through to see if there's something that can be done. However, if it can't, then I'm all in support of the resolution.
 I pulled up some numbers from the Indiana Sheriffs Association on, you know, the resolution talks about prisons and jails and kind of lumps them together, even though the oversight is kind of different. And I pulled up some numbers from the Indiana Sheriffs Association. And so far, as of May 11th, the Indiana County jails were down 5,600 inmates, a reduction over 30%. So there is some...
 reduction happening at the county jail level numbers. I couldn't find DOC numbers and I know this resolution is kind of directed towards the DOC, but I know here locally, our county jail population is down over 30% at this point in time from
 So if it's working, why are we, why, I just, I guess I'm trying to figure out. Mr. Upchurch, Mr. Upchurch, we're not talking about your local jail, although that may be listing some of the language. We're directing this towards the prison systems. But let me come home. We're talking about Michigan City. We're talking about Pendleton. We're talking about Plainfield.
 And we're talking about wall bags, we're talking about mind accounting. Are we doing a joint resolution with these cities or are we being proactive for these cities? Being proactive for these cities. But it's not necessarily a city driven thing. South Bend, obviously, this is a part of what I thought. And I hope that you guys agree makes sense given the current climate of COVID-19.
 So the idea was to try to get out in front of this, if we could, to to obviously allow some of the prisoners to get out that have, you know, served most of their time. I mean, it's in the language of the resolution. Right. However, and thank you, Brother Henry.
 If we don't have a prison, I just think we can use our time wisely on passing other resolutions. We have members of our community that have loved ones that are in prison. We have people that live in the city of South Bend that work at the prison system within the prison system. This county jails themselves, you know, whole inmates themselves.
 I think it was up to eight years, Troy, that that, you know, are on their way to Michigan or Westville or what have you. In order to shake our system and get to operate the way that we wanted to within the confines of the democracy that we say America is operating in.
 It's up to our duties and powers also to push issues that may sometimes seem like it's out of our purview. But it's not because it also impacts us one way or the other. So we have the ability to speak a little bit louder for the people that are voiceless and it goes directly to the state. So be it. We're all under the state control. We found that out back in February when Holcomb said stop doing business.
 In the name of time, we're about overdue here. Do we have any motions?
 Do we have any public input? Oh yes, I'm sorry. Any public input from the clerk's office on Bill 20-15? Yes, Mr. Warner, this is Graham Sparks from the city clerk's office. No one filled out any slot for the survey, but we do have an individual in the chat box here. We have a Ms. Rhonda Hughes.
 that she would like to be recognized and speak on this resolution. Okay, Ms. Hughes, Rhonda, are you here? There we are. I'd simply like to express support for the resolution. I think council members Davis and Hammond have done a good job of expressing the reasons for it. Thank you.
 Thank you, Rhonda. Ms. Hughes, would you please state your name and address for the record? For the record, I put it in the chat. It's RhondaHughes1029RiversideDrive.com. Thank you, Ms. Hughes. And Troy, I would like to add, I know time is
 Quickly leaving us, but it's not unusual. This council has taken leadership on other issues that had statewide impact. One was the ID program for our community, our Latino community, and on other issues too. So this is not unusual for us as a council. Thank you, Vice President White. Do we have any motions? I'd like to make a motion for the favorable representation. Thank you.
 we have a motion to send it for a full for a favorable recommendation and a second uh madam clerk will you do the roll call please hi council member mcbride hi council member hi i'm sorry was i called i i waking up dawn for nation
 Your brain. Council member OK, can you have a council member Tomas Morgan OK and Mr. OK, we have five. Thank you will adjourn the committee meeting and go to our next committee.
 Thank you, Mr. Warner. Before we get into the Public Works and Property Vacation, if you're not speaking, would you please just reminder, just turn your microphone to mute so everybody can hear what's going on. Appreciate that. Chair Nagatsuki, would you please go ahead and start? Okay, I'd like to open the committee meeting for Public Works and Property Vacation. Take a roll call of those present.
 Myself, Chair of Steele and Zgotsky, Councilperson Henry Davis is here. Troy Warner is here. Laurie Hammond and Cole Luttrell, are you here? I'm here. Right, I'm glad you could make it, thank you. So all the members are present and we are here to hear bills 19-20 and 20-20.
 So is the person, the presenter for Bill 1920 here? Yes. Can anyone hear me? This is Tony Halsey with Kite Realty Group. Yes, I can hear you. Okay. My address is 30 South Meridian Street, Indianapolis. So I wanted to thank everyone on the council for participating.
 For working with us is difficult time. I know you guys aren't hearing a lot of items on your agenda outside of emergency COVID related items, but this is a fairly important we feel for this that he was up in and appreciate everyone's time this evening. So I'll start with bill number 19 dash 20. I'll note that it's listed in the title here under its Howard
 and South Pitt Avenue vacations. When I looked at the packet, the items under that bill were actually related to St. Vincent and Georgiana. The titles are reversed in the ordinance on the schedule here. I don't know if that's an issue, but bill number 19-20, if you look at the packet, I think is actually the St. Vincent and Georgiana Street. Would it be okay if I talk about St. Vincent first?
 Is that the Howard Corby? Yeah, so 19-20 is on the agenda. It's titled Howard Corby South Bend, but if you look at what's in the ordinance, the items under the ordinance reflect St. Vincent and Georgiana vacation. The two bills are reversed on the agenda. I don't know which way it's supposed to be. Does that make sense?
 Mr. Hall, this is Graham from the clerk's office. If you'd like to just proceed and speak on the title. If it's just the title, it looks like it may have just been a Scribner's error. I put the wrong link in the hyperlink. But you can go ahead and talk about the Howard Corby South Bend Avenue vacation first. Sure, that's fine.
 So Howard, Corby, South Bend, would you guys like me to share my screen or everyone kind of has the site plan or the exhibits pulled up perhaps? Yes, please. Okay. One second. I will do my best here. Can everyone see this? Yes. Okay.
 Yeah, thank you very much. Okay. So here we are, intersection of State Road 23 with Howard Street and where Corby kind of ends at its eastern terminus before it comes into State Road 23. Kind of just working together with the University of Notre Dame to develop, redevelop this area. This is currently where the Robinson Center sits.
 As I think everyone knows, the Robinson Center will soon be moving across Howard Street into a new facility that's being constructed as part of the second phase of Eddy Street Commons. And so to allow us room on our site, you know, room to develop this site adequately, we're requesting to vacate the cul-de-sac at the end of Corby and South Bend.
 which is highlighted in the large, kind of larger gray area, about a third of an acre. We will develop this as part of our retail. And then when we laid out a site plan on this site, we also determined that there was a small triangular piece of right-of-way up adjacent to Howard Street that we needed to vacate in order to situate a commercial building along the Howard Street right-of-way
 sort of mirroring what's across the street with the new Robinson Center and mirroring what occurs up and down Eddy Street. So to create that same sort of feel, we push the building up on the road, which is in harmony with what the ordinance would require us to do. But part of the building kind of gets into this little triangular piece. So those are the two sections of right-of-way. There were larger sections of right-of-way that cut through this site that we vacated before we began Section 2 of Eddy Street Commons.
 back in 2017. South Mid Avenue used to extend southwest and northeast through you know through the corner of this and then Eddy Street extended straight north and South along its current line right through the middle of this site. We vacated both of those sections in 2017. We left the cul-de-sac piece because it was needed just for turnarounds and you know fire safety and so forth as we're developing the entire
 currently that will no longer be needed someone would be able to come down Corby Street and turn directly into our site or come up South Bend same situation the city has prescriptive easements through the former rights-of-way that exists currently that are already vacated they'll continue to have prescriptive easements through these very through these vacated areas for any utilities that might be contained within you know within these areas sewer water
 So on and so forth. And we've been working closely with staff, closely with other utility companies, AEP, AT&T, in regards to any facilities that they might have in the area. Would anyone like any additional information, site plan of what we might be thinking, anything like that? Yeah, site plan would be great if you've got it. Andy, Tony? Sure, I don't mind. Hold on. How do I stop share on... Stop share.
 Can you share? One minute. Okay. Here we go. Okay. So, this is approximately – can anyone see this? Yes. So, this is approximately the site plan that we've come up with. You can see the proposed vacation areas in kind of bold lines at the southern portion of the site and then the northeast corner, this little triangle.
 So you can see we've situated the buildings up on Howard Street. Again, mirroring what the Robinson Center on the other side and then we would have a entrance into the into the commercial center at the at the end of Corby and South Bend. There's no need to have the call to SEC there any longer as emergency vehicle or whomever could pull directly into the site and exit onto Howard Street or out on the State Road 23.
 Mr. Tulsi? Yes. Is South Bend Avenue and Corby, they are no longer through streets, is that correct? Correct. They would just, I mean, they connect to one another, but they no longer connect through, that's correct. Does any other, anybody from the committee have any questions on this bill? No.
 I do. I just want to ask the petitioner had he had any conversations with any of the neighbors that are aligned with this proposed location? Yes, to the South is 5 Corners LLC. That's Charlie Hayes. If anyone knows Charlie, he was actually one of the petitioners in conjunction with us on another name on the petition.
 on this particular request. So he would be immediately to the south of this. He would, half of Corby Street would go to Five Corners. And then there would be no one else. Notre Dame owns all the property, is the underlying owner, everything to the north of Corby Street. I have a couple of questions for you. Yep.
 As a former city engineer, I'm pretty familiar with this. Not only for that, but before I was a city engineer, my office was on part of this property. So I'm looking at some pretty familiar spaces here. And I noticed a lot of changes, obviously. A couple years ago when this phase two was created, you did the vacations.
 and you put easements over other parts of phase two, will these utilities that are being relocated, I see the sanitary sewers being relocated and I'm not sure what else in a quick look here, but you'll be dedicating new easements and perhaps vacating old ones to get these buildings built? That is correct. So you caught the sanitary sewer,
 to the southeast that is a new sanitary sewer the existing sanitary sewer runs basically through the middle of the large building there that you see so we're working with the engineering department on that relocation we'll request that the former easement that runs through the building be vacated and dedicated new easement along the new alignment the north south utilities which would be former eddy street those easements will stay in place i think we may
 request that they be, I don't know, changed from a prescriptive easement to will define an easement on the plat to provide room on both sides. There's a sanitary sewer, there will be a storm sewer that runs through the middle of this. That's what that's the dark line that you're seeing that runs north-south and then there's some AT&T lines. Another question on the aerial photograph that has the property lines of
 these property real estate profit boundaries uh marked on it there seems to be an encroachment or potentially an encroachment uh on the west end of corby of the vacated area piece of corby that would encroach into what's now crew safety and laundromat is that just something in the photography
 or is that a recognized easement that will be cleared up or recognized up? What's encroaching, Carl? If you go to the aerial or to the vacation exhibit, it'll show where the west end of the Corby area
 Yeah, so the laundromat, I guess to answer your question, the laundromat is being acquired by Notre Dame. I think closing is later this week and the laundromat will be demolished and incorporated into this redevelopment. Yeah, I gave the owner of the laundromat a call today to make sure that he was aware of what's going on here. He gave me the news that he's retiring.
 Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Is there, in the discretion of time, because I have one more bill to get through here, is there any other questions from committee members or the council that's present?
 If not, I'm going to see if there's anybody from the public that would like to speak on behalf of this bill. Chair Niesgowski, this is Graham Sparks from the city clerk's office. Both in the chat and the previous survey sent out, there have been no members of the public wishing to speak on either of these bills. I yield. All right. Thank you. Okay.
 With nobody else to speak, what is the pleasure of the board in reference to Bill number 20 or 1920, I guess we're speaking on? Excuse me. I don't know how to tell somebody I want to comment. Mr. Graham? Yeah.
 All right, Miss, we posted in the chat as well. You may not have seen it. If you'd like to state your name and address for the record, we'll give them the time to speak. Sorry, my name is Leah McLaughlin. I live at 1120 Georgiana. All right. Thank you for being here. You're welcome. I actually wanted to comment on the other, on the Georgiana St. Vincent piece. Okay, well, we are on...
 For bill number 1920. Oh, okay, so you're going to do them individually. My apologies. That's quite all right. Is there anybody else that would wish to speak? I will also say we did present this to the NNRO board in February and received support from them.
 if that matters to the council. All right, thank you. I just want to remind everybody that in lieu of time to wrap up the committee meetings, then tonight we will have public comments as well on this. Okay. So how do you want to, anybody like to make a motion on Bill 1920? I would offer a motion to send the council with a favorable recommendation with the contingencies noted by the Board of Public Works.
 Okay, a motion's been made and seconded. All in favor? I have to do a roll call. Oh, sorry, I forgot. Okay. Council Member Nesgowski, Council Member Davis, Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Mr. Luttrell. Aye. All right, thank you.
 Sheila go you got four minutes. presenter of bill number 2020. Are you here please? Yes, I'm here. This is Tony Halsey with kite Realty again. Thank you. So I will attempt to do a different screen share. You've got about two minutes. This is Eastern edge of the eastern end of St. Vincent Street and it's to
 where it terminates into Georgiana Street. This is really part, I guess, the final part of Eddy Street Commons Phase 2. You can see on the thing that I pulled up, all the blue lines are rights of way that we've vacated as part of Eddy Street Commons Phase 2. But the time that we put together these plans, we have always planned to have a –
 A park, I guess at the East end of Saint Vincent, terminate the right away and put up a park there sitting area and so forth and we did not complete the vacation of this back in 2017 for the simple reason that we were going to. We needed to open the apartment buildings on the East side of Eddy Street for the 2019 school year.
 And oh, into that time we knew we would be occupying any street and reworking any street for the better part of two years. In order to open these buildings successfully for the 2019 school year, the access point to them, Georgiana Street on St. Vincent for a period of time until any street reopens. So the city at the time asked us to kind of.
 approved plans. We went through Board of Public Works and got the plans approved for the park. We didn't complete the vacation until we are ready to reopen Eddy Street and provide access to those apartment buildings via Eddy Street. Now that that is imminent, we're looking to complete the vacation and construct the park.
 Thank you. And I see that the Board of Public Works had a favorable recommendation for the vacations. Is there anyone from the public that would like to speak on behalf of this bill? Ms. Niesgowski, this is Graham from the clerk's office. I believe Ms. Rhonda Hughes wanted to speak on this bill. Could you please give your name and address, please, for the record? Okay.
 Thank you. Actually, it was in relation to the previous bill. I simply wanted to raise concern that with the... No, Ms. Hughes, I'm going to have to ask for decorum. That bill is already spoken on and voted on. I'd encourage you to stick around for a public hearing at tonight's meeting shortly thereafter. Thank you. Is there anybody that would wish to speak on behalf of the bill 2020? No.
 McLaughlin still has her hand up. Yes, Ms. Niesgowski, there's a hand-raising function, I think, that's been recently added to the Microsoft Teams app. Ms. McLaughlin, are you wanting to speak on this bill? Yes, if I could, please. I will try and talk fast. Leanne McLaughlin, 1120 Georgiana. I live close to the intersection of St. Vincent and Georgiana.
 During the past six months, St. Vincent has been open at Georgiana off and on. When it is open, we have great traffic flow. When it is closed, we have a number of U-turns made on Georgiana by people who are southbound and get stuck on Georgiana because there's no place to go.
 So closing St. Vincent actually creates a traffic flow issue that I'm not sure that people have recognized. And I believe that when the apartments are full, the houses are built, we actually need that street open for good traffic flow as opposed to a fourth park outdoor space in Eddy Street Commons area.
 traffic flow is more important. Will you be here for the regular meeting to speak on behalf of this? Yes, ma'am. Alright, thank you very much in the essence of time. We're trying to move along for a regular Council meeting. I appreciate that. Can I ask one question of the presenter? If you could, we can do that later this afternoon or in the meeting. I want to make a motion.
 we go ahead with motion please that we send this bill to the full council with no recommendation i mean with no recommendation okay that just allows us to have more deliberation at the center since we're trying to move forward so one second's that motion okay we have a second sure i did okay could we take the role please council
 Sorry, I didn't have my mic on. I'm sorry. Council Member Nowoski? Yes, or aye. I'm sorry. Council Member Davis? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Mr. Luttrell? Mr. Luttrell? Aye. Okay, five ayes. Okay, the motion has been carried with no recommendation for the regular meeting.
 All right, thank you. Thank you. Can we unshare the year? Yeah, unshare the document. Yes, I'm sorry I will do that right now. Thank you. There you go. OK, we'll go ahead. Nevermind, nevermind, I got it. I just had to. I don't know what happened, but yeah, the first few times I was trying it was working OK. We already miss Jones. Your group ready?
 Yep, we're ready. All right, thank you. Good evening, Tuesday. If I could have the clerk's office mute everybody, please. Okay. Good evening. The Tuesday, May 26, 2020 Common Council meeting is in order again.
 And what we're doing right now is a virtual common council meeting with public input. We want to thank everybody who's joining us. The link at the top of this agenda can direct you to the page. We will turn to invocation as Pastor Kenneth Lee from Kingdom Christian Center on with us. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Lee, for doing the invocation. Go ahead. Thank you.
 With you, bow your heads with me. Father God, we ask today as we get ready to go into this council meeting that, first of all, Lord, we thank you for watching over everyone and watching over our city. We ask God that you would allow our council members to vote in ways that will make South Bend a better place. We pray God for unity. We pray God that the agenda is the people. We even lift up our flag.
 City right now and the homeless population and the decisions that will be made, we ask God that you would look on our mayor, our police chief, all of our elected officials, and allow them to represent the people. We pray God for peace in our city. We ask that you will watch over families and young people.
 that violence will be deterred and that it will go down. We ask God that you would just help our city come together as they have been working together during this pandemic. We pray, God, that you will strengthen South Bend and make South Bend a blessed place to live. And we ask God that you would just allow the leadership to make decisions that will positively affect all people.
 All these things we ask in your son's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Lee, so much for that. Miss Jones, would you please do roll call? Yes. I forgot to mention, can I read the instructions for the public to seek?
 Sure. Okay. Members of the public for audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are in the chat. We ask that you provide your name, address, and those are required for all the speakers at in-person council meetings.
 Also, for citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat, and the council president will call on you during the relevant time for public input. Again, enter your name and your address, and you will be given three minutes to speak. So, please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remark. Now, I'm going to do roll call. Council Member Davis. Henry's here. Council Member McBride. Present. Thank you.
 Council Member Warner. Here. Council Member Teschke. Here. Council Member Neskoski. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President White. Present. President Scott. Present. All present. Thank you. Is there a report on subcommittee amendments, please?
 Yeah. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of March 23rd, 2020, April 13th, 2020, April 27th, 2020, May 11th, 2020. Beginnings of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved.
 i'd like to make a motion to accept the report from the subcommittee on all the minutes that have been identified second thank you miss jones roll call please council member davis council member mcbride council member warner all right council member tesca council member mcscoskey hi council member from last morning council member hammond
 Vice President White? Aye. Vice President Scott? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Now we'll turn to special business at this time. Mayor James Mueller will give us an update.
 On city-related issues as well as anything on COVID, I believe the main concern from this common council has been the homeless tent city. Mr. Mayor, are you there? I am. Good evening, council members. Thank you, President Scott. Good evening.
 So I'll just briefly give the update on COVID-19 since we've gone over a lot of where we are the last couple of meetings. But as you know, we entered into COVID-19.
 phase three of the governor's back on track plan over the weekend. And for the most part, we're in phase three. There are some have been some delays on different pieces. And that included increasing gatherings to a size up to 100 people. At the same time, we do see some
 level of uptick in the number of cases in St. Joseph County and the state. And so, the health officials are keeping a watchful eye to see if they might come in and make restrictions on gatherings or other above and beyond what the governor is doing. We will know within the next
 two or three weeks, which direction this is going to take. These are a critical few weeks here where we could be going back up in ascent, and hopefully not. But we'll know how this opening is going in relative short order.
 So that's where we are and we continue to work with our health officials and Unified Command and our partners in the county to increase testing, contact tracing, and the pieces that are going to help us contain further outbreaks without having to resort to stay at home or more extreme separation or isolation measures.
 I know the issue of our chronic homeless population has become front and center, especially today. But I did want to give briefly some level of history here. I know the returning council members are well-versed and aware of this.
 where we have come from and where we had been going. But certainly this is a new council and a new administration. So we need to make sure that we agree on the strategy going forward. And I don't think we're gonna necessarily solve that tonight by any means, but given some of the urgency to the issue now, as well as into the future, wanna give as much context as possible as we consider the path forward.
 So, I guess the start is South Bend does receive federal HUD funds every year, and as we go through the budget process, you know, we'll see more of that.
 And in particular, there is an annual emergency solutions grant, which is federal funding, and it funds five shelters, Center for the Homeless, Youth Service Bureau, YWCA, AIDS Ministries, and Life Treatment Center. It doesn't fund the whole bit. They get other federal funding outside of this amount, as well as fundraising and other funding sources, but we do direct the funds that we manage as a city toward those.
 those entities. And then there are three agencies from that grant. Shelter can only account for a certain percentage of those funds. The remaining percentage has to go to something else. And we use the balance mainly for three agencies for rapid rehousing. And those are similar agencies, YWCA, YSB, and AIDS Ministries.
 And then the St. Joseph County Housing Consortium, which includes membership from Mishawaka and the county and South Bend, administers another portion of those federal HUD funds, and some of those are directed toward Oaklawn for tenant-based rental assistance to mentally ill and our homeless populations.
 But as you know, a number of years ago, I believe 2016, 2017, was when we had our, at least in recent memory, our first start of a type of encampment that happened under the bridge there on Lafayette Street. And what came out of this was the report on chronic homelessness from the working group under the previous administration.
 And the chronic homeless individuals account for a small fraction of the total homeless population over the course of the year. But they're the ones that the community is oftentimes most familiar with because in many cases they're the most visible to the community. And so out of that report came a suggestion to adopt housing first.
 as a policy for the city. And that was found as best practices across the country. And with the thought that
 Even though we have leading institutions for what we might call the non chronically homeless, you know the Center for the homeless has received a lot of accolades over the years for what they're able to provide relative to what other cities do. And we have a host of other agencies as well that provide services. So the.
 So what we're really talking about are these chronically homeless individuals for the most part. And what the Housing First principle is about is there may be a host of issues why these individuals are chronically homeless and not able to –
 not able to take part in the other services, or not able to move toward a more stable life with shelter. So the thought is shelter is better than unshelter and you put housing first. So get these individuals off of crisis mode, off of the streets, and then connect them to the services that they need to make progress.
 And as far as that working group report, there were three main pieces. One was better coordination or coordinated entry point, an intake center, or what was
 called a gateway at different points over the past few years, a gateway center, in order to get that shelter and connect these individuals to the services they need with the long-term goal of moving them to scattered site permanent supportive housing units across the community.
 So, I mean, we've had a, just go quickly, we know we never were, was it, we never had been able to cite that intake center. There were a number of conversations. We thought we were making progress over the years, but unfortunately there were issues getting that cited and implemented. Yeah.
 We have been able to support financially the creation of a coordinated entry position to help work on that process. And we also did work to help a consultant process to get us to join the balance of state piece. On the permanent supportive housing side, we were able to partner –
 with different with I don't know the exact entities names but the corporation for supportive housing and their applications and Get the what we know is the Oliver apartments over there off Indiana Avenue, and that was 32 units of
 And there was a second project that's been under consideration for a number of months that proposed 22 new permanent supportive housing units and up to 40 scattered site permanent supportive housing units, as well as vouchers. We've also separately worked with the Center for the Homeless over the past few years to coordinate different projects.
 funding sources to to assist an additional 18 permanent supportive housing clients
 The Washington Colfax units development can accommodate up to six units of permanent supportive housing. Despite some rumors, I was not involved in that. I was mayor-elect at the time and not in the city, but there are rumors that I directed that project. But that piece was not, I don't know all that went into that, but I think where we can get scattered site supportive housing units, I mean, the goal is to decentralize.
 a lot of this and so that there's not any one built up issue or compounding issues by having you know more density in terms of these individuals
 We're also working with Merchants Affordable Housing Corporation, who have agreed to offer at least five permanent supportive housing units. So that's all recent work to try to get some of these long-term solutions moving and get more permanent shelter options for our unsheltered population.
 At the same time, the city entered into arrangements that, again, were unprecedented with the formation of the Kras building over there by Hope Ministries as a weather amnesty site. And before that, the city was not directly involved with working to find weather amnesty solutions.
 the following year. So one of the issues, same as the Gateway Center, siting, even weather amnesty is always difficult. People say we need it, but then when we get to starting to work on solutions, there are a lot of people who say, well, we don't want it here. And so what
 what we're able to do is get temporary fixes where we say one to two years and so the Kras building had that condition on it where it was a one to two year solution. I believe we used it for two years of two winters. The year before this winter, this past winter, there was the option over there at Touch Street where Hope operated weather amnesty
 And then this past winter, the Salvation Army building over on South Main Street was a weather amnesty, along with Center for the Homeless opens up parts of their facilities for weather amnesty as well.
 The other new thing last winter was the partnership with Our Lady of the Road for a day center. And that was with the thought of it's cold during the day and there are conditions where unsheltered individuals need a place to go during the day, during weather amnesty. And the city also coordinated weather amnesty gifts
 donations through Transpo and library to get bus passes and there was some direct city financial support for those efforts too. So all of these things that have been going on in the past few years did not happen prior to that and so there's been this is just the context of the
 enormous amount of efforts that are going on to try to identify and facilitate and implement solutions. So then when we entered into the COVID-19, the health officials came to us, and the best practices was to generate individual rooms to isolate those who are
 do not need medical assistance or direct medical assistance at a medical facility, but don't have a place to isolate and recover on their own. And so we scoured the entire county to talk to countless people, and we ended up with only one willing property owner and a hotel up
 up in Roseland that was willing to work with us on this. We've been working with that site. Honestly, that's taken a lot of bandwidth of our existing staff time.
 we haven't been able to allocate to other purposes. We think it's important to make sure that we keep these individuals safe and our community safe from overloading our healthcare systems during, to meet this crisis. But it's not, that's not something we can do long term or if there needs to be an extension past this first period of the coronavirus crisis.
 The health officials are working to, you know, we know testing has been an issue across the board, but they are working to test our homeless populations. And they tested those in shelters and are working to test the unsheltered individuals. They were not tested.
 They did not see it as a feasible option to test the individuals at the encampment site, and they plan to test the unsheltered individuals during the HOPE meal services in the coming days. So in moving quickly to the encampment,
 is the health officials a couple weeks ago did warn us about bringing groups together at a site. You know, obviously we all know the physical distancing is important to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. And they did at that time warn about, you know, creating an environment where people would congregate and potentially spread the virus among the community.
 The city did not encourage, but did allow the private property owner to host what started out as a very small encampment. But that site grew rapidly and the number of health and safety issues increased. And when that property owner decided that it had grown beyond what he ever imagined, then he...
 He sought them to vacate his property and they moved across the street to a city-owned lot. And we did not want to turn that around immediately. The city gave ample notice, over 72 hours notice, that this was not a permanent resting spot.
 for a number of reasons and unfortunately today you know the deadline that was posted was 10 a.m. This morning and You know at 10 a.m. There were still a number of folks there and both people who are experiencing homelessness as well as a number of advocates on behalf of those individuals I'm proud of the men and women in code and police and
 for how they took on this difficult task today. That was not an easy environment to go into, but for the most part, it went as smooth as we might have hoped. We, of course, would have hoped for a smoother transition, but all things considered and where it could have gone, it was relatively smooth. So, going forward,
 We maintain or I maintain that the housing first is the best practice. I think we can do more research on that, but we're going to find that that is the best practice across the country. And trying to get individuals sheltered and stabilized is better than having them remain unsheltered.
 We continue to prefer partners, our community partners, to provide these services over city-run services because we are not best equipped to be these service providers. But as was mentioned in a Tribune article last week,
 You know if we've been talking about a lot of these things for four years and if it does take the city to To take on something more directly at least in the short run. That's something that I think we should be willing to explore You know not necessarily we have to do it that way, but I think we need to
 we need to move to see results and things implemented as quickly as possible. So in the short term, what I'd be proposing is opening up a nighttime amnesty shelter as quickly as possible using additional funds from HUD that are coming from the CARES Act that we expect, I don't know exactly what timetable we expect, but soon, so hopefully the next couple of weeks.
 and then run the weather amnesty at the same site this winter while we work on long-term solutions. So we know that
 Similar to when we started with the Kras building over by Hope early on, the first time we did weather amnesty or we facilitated weather amnesty as a city, we knew that was a short-term solution. We know when we were selling the Salvation Army building for last year's weather amnesty, it was a short-term solution. But we hope we can still utilize this for one more winter because the reality of it is if it's not going to be that site,
 we're it's already it's coming up on june and it's an enormous process to find identify and and get a site um up and running in time for for the cold weather uh as early as october and so if it's not if if uh if the community feels strongly that it's
 it's not the site for this winter, we really need to start scrambling ASAP to identify an alternative. So I would hope that at least in the short term, this can remain a resource to provide weather amnesty this winter and potentially even provide amnesty before that. So that's going on the short term. In terms of the long term, if this council
 does support the Housing First approach and strategy. We'd be looking to strengthen that coordinated entry system and continue to expand the number of permanent supportive housing units for the chronic homeless individuals. We'll continue to seek more regional partners because we do know that this is not –
 South Bend hosts a lot of the services for homeless in our area, but it is a regional issue and certainly need to engage more regional partners. And the other piece is that some people have suggested, and this is up for discussion, is trying to decentralize the provision of existing services so that no one
 area or a neighborhood has to bear the full brunt of our region's issues. And so that's something we heard when we were trying to site the gateway or the intake center, where the southeast neighborhood said, well, we have all these services. Is there any way that you could find it somewhere else? But then the challenge is,
 the people are going to gravitate toward where the services are so so unless there is a way to decentralize it somewhat we're always going to have this this challenge so whether we whether we adopt housing first or not if this if many of the services remain in the area
 chronically homeless individuals are going to remain in the area whether they're sheltered or not. And so that's just the reality of it. And certainly we can also –
 on the same token we can create all of these additional units for permanent supportive housing and Even though that's a low barrier housing first model. There are individuals who are who are out right now who were evicted from that because they They got evicted from from the process because they didn't follow the process. So there are challenges
 There's no easy solution and I hopefully we can come together as a Council and in the community and figure out what our long term solutions here will be. So with that I'll turn it over to any questions you have. Thank you. You know one of my concerns and I think there are concerns within this Council is hearing the fact that.
 We were we were about newspaper about the.
 the weather amnesty over the winter time. I think that is kind of a concern that I've had also, as you know, my voice to the media that we need to start those, that task force again, the homelessness task force that some of the council members, I know Sharon McBride, Karen White, were both a part of last year, last term before we received a new council.
 Um, I know talking to a lot of these council members that they're, they're looking for that, um, permanent supportive housing and we really need to work on that. I think some of the biggest issues that we had in the past was, it was hurry up, make a decision and this is what we're going to do, uh, which I believe a longer in, you know, um,
 Timing is horrible all the time with this issue. There's always going to be a homeless issue, but we need to work on a long-term solution and bring everybody to the table to work on that. With that said, I also would like to engage Councilmember Troy Warner and Vice President Karen White
 to probably have a off-night meeting just to talk about what you want to do with the Salvation Army building, how that's going to get funded. I appreciate you bringing up the HUD and the CARE funding. But what does that look like? What are –
 You know, the liabilities to the city, what's also, what are we going to do with security, that type of thing. So there's a lot of questions. I know we're not going to get through it all tonight. I would like to, if you want to make a comment on that, and then I think we go down the line, a couple questions to the mayor, and then we move on with our council meeting. Is that fair, Mayor? Sure, sounds good.
 Okay, any comment to what I've said, and then we'll move down the line. Yeah, I mean, just it would be great to have – I mean, this is something where –
 It's not a sustainable solution for us to be scrambling at the last minute every couple years to find the site. And honestly, we're running, you know, we've done this exercise now two to four times and, you know, we're running out of obvious solutions. Even if we can pull it off, you know, we do need to have a more stable long-term approach that we feel comfortable with because...
 There are no perfect solutions here, and there are going to be challenges with whatever path we decided to take, but we just need to make sure that we're on the same page and and we stick to the strategy unless we decide there needs to be a shift, but it would be good to have that clarity as best as possible. Thank you. We'll go down the district row. Mr Henry Davis, 2nd district.
 Thank you, Tim. And thank you, Mayor, for showing up. I really appreciate it. I have some pointed questions because I am a bit lost. You said a whole lot. I was wanting to interject, but I wouldn't. I couldn't because you had your spiel to speak. But in the next like a couple of weeks and this is one question, but let me finish out on the rest of them.
 You have a decision that you have to make with what goes on with the Motel 6. I think the Motel 6 is on 933. Council members didn't really know what was going on. You got $500,000 from us. Then you move right into, you know, spinning it up there as it seems and what it appears to be based upon the news reports. And I can't believe all of them, but they're pretty consistent in saying that things going up there are going wrong. Right.
 It's not the best case scenario. And we're not doing a very good job of running a homeless shelter as it relates to Motel 6. So I don't understand how we transition from there as a Motel 6 into something that's going to be downtown to help support the homeless when we are doing less than a good job there on 933 right now.
 The other question I have, and it relates not only to homelessness, but definitely the overall health of the city financially. I have some really deep concerns on how we're going to move forward in the coming months and also years, not only because of COVID, but what is happening right now. The health of our city is dependent upon the school corporation, if I remember correctly, if I know that to be true.
 Right now, we're looking at the school corporation referendum wanting to add a new tax to the taxpayers, no matter how small or how big it is. It's a new tax. And then we look at the introduction of that tax, higher assessed values for people in their homes, which equals more. Looking at a higher unemployment rate, which says not a lot of money. Then when we travel down.
 spaces such as Bendix at Bendix Street and you're reducing that down to like two lanes with a mill alternative turn lane that prohibits more trucks from delivering their product. No one I've talked to whether they own a business or not does not like this one-way this two-way stuff. I don't know why we're prohibiting more businesses from coming inside the town.
 We have to expand our access. If we don't, then the tax base decrease and then we'll have less money to operate. So that goes back to the original point about us and our health, financial health of this city. We're not looking forward to expansion. Looks like we're decreasing. So how are we going to continue to offer the services, homeless shelter included?
 to all of these people who don't have anything when we don't have anything coming in and so there's a lot more to that discussion but i would just ask those two right now because uh i think we're you know in a crunch for time right now but but it sounds like it looks like to me that we're in trouble okay so you're you're i'll answer your first question about the the isolation center um
 We would always, again, the preference would be to have partners operate it, but that was an emergency situation. And the team responded. I mean, it's a miracle that in some ways that this got up and running, given that it's hard to identify a willing property owner and get all the different pieces that go into that. There are security issues.
 personnel on site that's been contracted. There is site managers, there's food delivery. And so, you know, I mean, we've heard conflicting reports and most of the negative reports are about a misunderstanding of what the site is and isn't. It is not a mandatory quarantine site. And so all of the individuals there are voluntary. And if they choose, they're
 to leave the site, that is not something that we can enforce. But those instances have been relatively infrequent, given the number, and we've had a number of guests recover successfully in return.
 back to South Bend. So, I mean, there's also been some positive stories about that. So, I would just contest the fact that it hasn't been run well, despite there is a concerted effort by, you know, by certain folks up in the general area of the isolation center that just don't like it, just like almost any homeless service that is provided across the community. And,
 The neighbors are oftentimes, you know, sometimes there are understanding neighbors and sometimes there are less understanding neighbors. So that's that piece. And in terms of the funding we do, as mentioned before, we expect to get fully reimbursed from from covid related funds. So either from the state or federal government. So at the end of the day, that won't be a burden on city funds.
 And then moving to... But within that, we're still showing our hand on how we're going to operate as an organization to deliver a service. So we just can't diminish it and say, hey, we're going to get our refund back so we can try it again. Right now, we're not doing a very good job of it. So if we're going to go back to the same type of framework, then what are we going to change up and do? And that's not necessarily hiring new people
 I don't know if we want to be in the homeless, the homeless, the idea of being a homeless center, meaning South Bend, the city of South Bend. Yeah, no, that's a fair point. We've got to settle on that because when there are gaps in services, there is a lot of pressure to increase the level of services in our community. So that's something we've got to get on the same page about. And again, I would just...
 In terms of the Rosen facility, I don't know what specific issues you're referring to or whether it's the ones that are on the news, sir. Yeah. Well, I mean, what in particular news? I don't get anything from you guys. Everything that I get about this situation that's happening is coming from the news. I get the numbers from Sharon because she's good enough, but making sure that we get the numbers as a council. But anything else we get it from the news unless I'm missing some e-mails.
 So that's the only thing I can. Like I said, those are some of those are, I mean, in many ways, they're NIMBY. They're more NIMBY complaints than actual issues with the operation or services provided at the center. Okay. Mr. Davis, we're going to move on to the next council person. And like I said, this is going to take a while.
 A special one night, you know, off night meeting with committees, I believe. We'll turn to third district Sharon McBride. Sharon, are you there? Oh, wow. I've been talking this whole time. I wanted to thank the mayor for his presentation. Also,
 to Councilman Davis for his input. I think it definitely is going to take a lot more discussion for our most vulnerable population. We definitely . Some of the questions that I know is the liability issues that we'll have to have input from our attorney,
 So I just want to make sure that whatever undertaking that we are taking, the council, of course, has to answer for whether legally or, you know, just to our constituents. So I think making sure that we are in communication with one another, working together towards long term solutions is paramount. Yeah.
 Definitely, we have to, I'm sure, restructure the entire budget because this threw everybody for, you know, a loop. We already have the homeless is our most vulnerable population. We also coupled with the disparities study, coupled with COVID-19, coupled with the minority businesses and even the entire economy. So I definitely know that this is going to take a long time.
 THIS DISCUSSION. WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT FUNDING. WE HAVE TO TALK ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN WHEN WE REACH OUR SECOND PEAK, EVEN WITH JUST COVID. ARE WE PREPARED FOR HOW WE'RE GOING TO GET PREPARED WHEN IT SPIKES AGAIN? SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY A COUPLE OF COMMENTS AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE A LONGER DISCUSSION. SO THANK YOU. I'LL YIELD MY TIME.
 Thank you, Ms. McBride. Mr. Warner. Thank you, President Scott. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for the update. I appreciate these updates every two weeks. I'm very much looking forward to getting them in person on the fourth floor. I agree. This is kind of a.
 eight hour, 10 hour discussion. I like the idea of setting up a committee meeting and really getting some more details and figuring out exactly what a plan looks like. Please have your staff reach out to Vice President White and myself and we can
 We can get this set up and get the ball rolling. I agree that a city-operated facility should probably be a last resort. Let's not create the wheel when we have service providers out there. There's a whole lot of funding from the HUD monies. Additionally, the CARES Act funding that you're discussing could go to the third-party service
 service providers to assist them in some kind of housing first model, getting these people shelter as quick as we can get shelter to them. And then last, I want to thank and commend Chief Roszkowski, the assistant chiefs that were out there today, the officers and the code enforcement staff
 of their handling of the situation. A very tense and volatile situation. I thought they did a great job handling things today and will move things along. Thank you Sir. Thank you Mr Warner. What are we up to? 5th district
 Well, 5th District, I think, would be me. Yep. And I would just like to add a question for Councilmember Warner's office.
 Yeah, no, thanks. That's all right. Again, echoing Councilman Warner's comments about our police and our staff, the job that they did in a very tense situation. I wasn't there, but I...
 I watched nearly the entire situation via video. And so kudos again to all the city staff and handling that this afternoon.
 Mayor Mueller, I would like to first start off with a question. And I don't know, I could be misunderstanding this, but it seemed that in the beginning you were talking about the potential funding for a city-run homeless shelter being HUD dollars that we
 we get and currently distribute area service providers. So are we talking about discontinuing that district in favor of taking those dollars and putting them towards the city one run shelter? So, I mean, that's something to explore in future years. But this year, we are as part of the CARES Act, in addition to
 you know all the programs people know the the check to to every individual the boost in unemployment uh insurance the payment protective program for small businesses there was also there was also money set aside for states and cities to respond to the um to covid 19 as well as there was a number of uh
 emergency supplemental appropriations to existing programs, such as emergency shelter grants, CDBG, and HOME. So, for this year, we are expected to receive additional distributions of those funds, and those can help other things. There will be more than just what would cover something like that this year. Now, going forward in time,
 I don't that's the question for the longer term solutions is where would we get funding to continue these things and that's not obvious and that's something that.
 What is sustainable? What can the city take on over time? And that's something, especially with the concerns about what is our revenue going to look like as we get through the as we reopen and the economy gets going and how fast do we recover? So there are a lot of questions in terms of long term sustainability. But we what I was suggesting right now is just something to get us.
 through this year and then we can reevaluate as we look to a longer term strategy. OK, thank you for that clarification. I may have misunderstood there. I just want to make sure that we were talking about the same thing so I do know what you're talking about. I did receive an email from Pam Meyer on kind of the initial breakdown of what those CARES Act funding might do and what that might look like.
 But moving forward, obviously, this is going to be a, as you indicated, a trickier thing to fund. And, you know, looking at, again, even before COVID-19 and the shutdowns that have created this, you know, economic crisis and, you know, receipts in Indiana are down, I think, a billion dollars in April. Obviously, that affects it.
 As a city, our income tax receipts will likely be down. Property taxes are uncertain, et cetera, et cetera. But even before that, we were looking at this 2020 fiscal curb and talking about what is the long-term effect of property tax caps and how do we need to adjust our budget from there. So I do have some real concerns about funding. I know we can't get into everything tonight. I also have some concerns about...
 the model and, you know, if we're talking low barrier or no barrier, right, I think that, you know, to expect folks to give folks a roof over their head.
 over their head without expecting them to address any kind of root cause for for the homeless uh for the homelessness given that nearly 75 percent of unsheltered folks in the you know united states struggle with substance abuse i think that those are real things to address and what that looks like from a programming standpoint uh if the city were trying to take this and that's that's a big if right i mean um as again councilman warner i think others
 suggested that that you know is this even an area where the city should be stepping in as a service provider so just some initial thoughts obviously this is a a much deeper conversation again I agree that we should have an off-night meeting or multiple off-night meetings to to discuss so thank you thank you thank you Mr. Teschke sorry about screwing up your district so we'll go to the fifth district plus one which is Sheila Nagatsuki
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for coming before us tonight and giving us an update. I don't have a lot to add to what most of the other council members have stated. I think for the city to be able to initiate something to help with the chronic solutions that we're facing now is a good start. I don't believe that it is a best practice for us to
 be operating a facility like that when so many needs are there right the wraparound services I've had numerous calls today in emails from people in my district talking about the downtown area the that comes with chronic homelessness is a drug abuse some of
 my residents and their families bicycling downtown, witnessing some things that he wished his children had not witnessed. So we do know that there is a bigger reach than I think the city should be getting involved with. But I think to partner, to get a start there, to get some partnerships developing to help address it, which will definitely more than just what we're all stating tonight needs to be addressed. Yeah.
 So I think moving forward, having more meetings, trying to get like minds together and figure out what is the next steps. But I guess I don't have much more to add than what's already been said. So I don't want to take up any more time than it's needed. And thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Niedzgatzky. Ms. Lori Hammond. Thank you, Mayor Mueller, for coming before us today.
 Just a couple things, and I don't, I'm trying to control my reactions here. The notion that this was not expected or that we shouldn't have expected this at this time is pretty disheartening for me. I met with you, sir, in your office in February, and I asked you if we could please talk
 put that task force back together, that it was critical that we get moving on the homeless issues in the city. And that was early February. I reached out to Pam Meyer in April, talking to her about my concerns about closing the weather amnesty during the COVID pandemic, asking if we could find ways to please keep that open so that we did not have a situation downtown like we saw today.
 I never heard back from you, sir. I never heard back from Pam. I assumed you had someone working on these issues since I was not being brought into the conversation. You mentioned in your opening that you have a coordinator for homeless services. I wonder if I could get their name and their hire date to know who that person is, because I've been on all of the monthly homeless community meetings.
 and they are not aware of this coordinator. So I'm wondering who that is. Sure. It's not a city employee, but we can get you the information. Okay. And then my last statement, also not really a question, but there was a lot of talk about being a peaceful transition from the tent city in the downtown area
 And a 72-hour termination without a reasonable alternative for these people, sir, is not a peaceful transition. I wish we could have found a better solution, something better planned, and something that gave these people some alternatives. Right now, they have none. I yield the rest of my time.
 Thank you, Ms. Hammond. Turn to council member Rachel Tomas Morgan. Thank you, Mr. Mayor for being with us tonight and for your regular updates and appreciate some clarifications on the scenario, the scenario that you're proposing, at least in the short term. My single question is merely this.
 been able to speak with our key partner providers, agency providers, and what are their thoughts on the short-term solution that you just described to us? Sure. We've been in conversations, and they're not necessarily opposed to
 Just the, you know, we need to get more details and figure out how it would be implemented. I will say that toward the end of weather amnesty, Hope was the one who was our partner operating weather amnesty this year and in previous years.
 and they were having a hard time maintaining that through the end. And I will say this year we, we had to go longer than usual and it was good because we had an especially cold April, but they, um,
 Even if we had had budgeted and planned for an amnesty shelter past past April It's not clear how they would have been able to to keep that going at least during that time so there there are a lot of challenges in terms of what Just the capacity to provide these services and we'll keep talking with our
 providers but that is why i i did mention last week that you know maybe if someone needs to step up the city what to step up if if we need to figure it out and but in terms of our team we don't have uh you know we don't have a staff that's a giant staff that's working on on these services and and a lot of the resources toward these types of programming were
 I mean, basically, I mean, Councilmember Hammond mentioned Pam Meyer. I mean, she's basically running the isolation center up in – it's taken an enormous amount of time to manage that on top of some of the resistance we've received from the town in managing that. And they've put on a lot of different pieces for us to navigate through. So –
 There are also tradeoffs in terms of staff time, not necessarily just the direct dollars in a sense, but also what staff time is working on. And so, yeah, I don't know if that answers your question fully, but happy to follow up. Mayor, I'm just glad that you're communicating and working closely.
 working with our key partners on this and moving forward that those same players are at the table. So appreciate knowing that and getting clarity on that. I just finally want to say that I share similar concerns that have already been voiced about funding ongoing. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Vice President White. I'd like to thank you for coming before the council and sharing information not only in regards to COVID-19 but the situation with our most vulnerable population and that's the homeless
 I agree. One thing about being the last person, a lot of things that you would state have already been stated, but I believe it's very critical that we start having conversations in regards to a housing issue.
 We have a lack of affordable housing, safe housing for a large percentage of our residents. That includes the homeless. I know at this point that is a top priority. I think it's important that everyone is at the table, especially the council members.
 members as well. It's very disheartening to open up the tribute and to find out about what is being discussed or what's being planned. And we're not in a position, I can only speak for myself, to respond to the media because the first time I'm learning of any
 recommendations have been through the South Bend Tribune. I would encourage that we would start the conversations. It would be very helpful to get from you some of those strategies that you're saying that we must
 come in agreement with and any plan so that we have understanding what the administration is thinking, what that looks like, implementation. I know we have a short term issue before us, but as we look at it from a long term perspective, this is a comprehensive planning that has to include.
 our stakeholders, the council, and others that we can come out of this process so we're not planning as we go. Reconvening a task force, I think, would be very critical. But as council president has indicated, we can first start out with planning.
 the various committees that we can still have the conversations with. I would want to have information from you and the administration. What are those strategies that you made mention that we must come into agreement with those plans so that we are really operating from the same page and that could come, you know, forward down the line, but I do appreciate you coming before the council. I understand that this is a very tough, uh,
 conversation and decisions that we have to make. But we want to make sure that all of our citizens, including the homeless, that they're safe and that they have healthy shelter as we move forward as a city. Thank you. And it's never my,
 did not intend to ever catch you off guard in terms of things appearing in the in the media that certainly was a comment that maybe the city needs to step up was just we've been working on these issues for a number of years and you know some things have moved forward some things have stalled and uh just was talking about possibilities we i certainly didn't have a
 detailed plan working on that and ready to go. That's kind of what we're looking at right now, but it didn't mean to catch anyone by surprise or say that there was something moving forward that obviously whenever we're looking to find funds outside the budget, the council is
 is the holder of the purse as they say. So we would never take that for granted and certainly wanna work with you on figuring out what is the right use of our resources going forward.
 I appreciate that. And we want to be more than just the holder of the purse. We need to be part of the planning process because our citizens, they are reaching out to the various council members and they expect that we have some of the answers. And so I think as we look at this planning process, it should include not only from a financial perspective,
 but also in terms of policy development as well and the implementation of that as it pertains to our role as a council moving forward. Definitely. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you, Vice President White. Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate it. This council, you can say at least, is very concerned. And as Vice President White said, and many others, you know, you have nine representatives and part of our job is not only Keeper of the Purse, but also we represent those people and we hear in intimate detail a lot of things that can...
 help improve the city and on this topic as well. So we certainly want to work together. So when we're making that decision on the budget and the finances to this, that we're all coordinated in working together on this. And by no means, I don't think any council member is going to steer this administration the right way.
 They all have information coming from the various neighborhoods and various parts of the city. So thank you, Mayor. Appreciate it. We will look forward to coordinating some off-council night meetings and continue this topic. Great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. With that, that pretty much was our report from city offices. With that, I'll get a motion to rise and join. So moved. Second. Second.
 Thank you, Ms. Jones, roll call please. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member Noszkowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Council Member Davis. President Scott.
 Thank you. Ms. McBride, you're in charge. Ms. McBride, you're on mute. Thank you so much.
 I would like to call the committee of the school and now in session, this portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with the public that the bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 Clerk Nones, will you please give bill number 1920 a second reading. 1920, public hearing on an ordinance to vacate the following described property. East end of St. Vincent, east of Eddy Street from the western boundaries of lots six and seven of Eddy Street common section two. Western boundary of the right of way of Georgiana Street, south end Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee?
 Yes, committee met on Bill number 1920 and the favorable recommendation. Thank you. Do we have a petitioner present? Yes, this is Tony Halsey with Kite Realty Group.
 30 South Meridian Street, Indianapolis, Indiana. Mr. Halsey, this is Graham from the clerk's office. If I may, before you proceed, just as a clarification for all intents and purposes, there was found to be some sort of discriminator's error in the committee. The titles of the bill were just flip-flopped. Both have been legally published and advertised in accordance with the proper legislation that's assigned to the proper bill number. So thank you, Mr. Halsey, for pointing that out. And I yield my time to you.
 Which one are we discussing? Because my memory, that was primarily for committee. What I meant to say is that 1920 is in fact in reference to Vincent Street and 2020 is the Corby Boulevard. So I just wanted to clarify. I'm sorry. So did this go forward with no recommendation or favorable? This one was the favorable recommendation. Okay.
 St. Vincent Street, I think St. Vincent Street had no recommendation. I'm sorry. Yes, you're correct, Mr. Halsey. This was the one that we ran out of time on. Yeah. But the way they're listed in 19-20 and 20-20 in the formal packet is correct. Yes, Mr. President. Thank you for the clarification. Okay. Okay.
 So I will share my screen for anyone that would like to see if I can find. OK, so this is this bill 19-20 vacating the eastern end of Saint Vincent Street. This is a continuation of plans that were approved as part of Eddy Street Commons phase two.
 We vacated several rights of way in 2017, as highlighted in blue on the drawing that I have pulled up. At the time, we needed to open the apartment buildings on the eastern side of Eddy Street for the 2019 –
 school year, Notre Dame school year. We have we had plans. We have plans to vacate the eastern end of Saint Vincent Street to create a park sitting area and things for any residents in the area. We did not proceed forward with the vacation in 2017 along with the rest of the vacations because.
 During construction of Eddy Street Commons Phase 2, we needed to close South Eddy Street from Napoleon Boulevard to Howard Street. So in order to adequately open the buildings, B and D on the attached drawing, the only access while Eddy Street is closed needed to be from Georgiana Street to St. Vincent so residents could access the parking lots to the east of those two buildings.
 staff reviewed our plans in 2017-2018, agreed to the concept of what we would like, what we wanted to do and requested that we continue forward with vacation at such time that we're able to reopen Eddy Street so that the apartment buildings east, I'm sorry, it's at such time that we reopen Eddy Street so that the apartments that are east of Eddy could have access through Eddy Street. We're now wrapping up construction on Phase 2.
 and Eddy Street will soon reopen. So this is why we're moving forward with the vacation request at this time. Okay. Thank you so much, council members. Do you have any questions for the petitioner? I do. Councilwoman Hammond. I'm wondering if a traffic flow study had been done to see if there would be adverse traffic issues in this area by closing off this street. We...
 There were some traffic studies undertaken by the city in 2016-27 in regards to Eddy Street Commons as a whole. I regret I don't recall if it included the eastern side of St. Vincent Street being closed or not. I do know they looked at a lot of the other intersections. I also know that we met with the neighborhoods in the area on multiple occasions, received feedback.
 that the majority of the neighbors in the triangle did not want to see traffic from Eddy Street Commons flowing through their neighborhood. This was part of the solution to that, to create a park area. We presented that to the residents in October of 2017, and kind of, we got positive feedback. We are proceeding forward with that commitment at this time.
 It also went through engineering department from the city and board of public works. Are there any other questions? Yes, this is Councilwoman White. In terms of the park, I know that the park will be owned by Notre Dame, correctly? Correct? Yes, correct. Okay, and then that will, what type of park are they looking at in regards to, you know, what that site may, you know, end up being?
 Stone benches for city and some trees and like catenary lights for ambient lighting. Just a gathering place. Yeah. Any other questions from the council? Yes, I do have one question, if I may. Yeah. When you talked about you said in October 2017, you
 is when you met with residents. What has the dialogue been currently, say, within the last six months to a year? Has there been dialogue with them, and have they welcomed the green space? I have had dialogue with the residents in the Triangle throughout the construction of Phase 2 on various topics.
 And I've gotten positive feedback. I've heard Leanne McLaughlin, who was on here earlier, maybe questioned the need to close St. Vincent. I've only received, that's the only negative feedback that I have personally received. I believe Tim Sexton with Notre Dame's Office of Public Affairs is on the call here. And perhaps he could say if he has received other feedback from other residents in the Triangle. Chair, I have a question.
 President? You know, regarding the concern of Mrs. McLaughlin, I think also what probably working with the city or you guys that we have signs that says street not through. And I think over time and habit that would cut down on some of the concerns of people cutting through on St. Vincent's. Does that make sense?
 It does make sense. I'm certainly, I certainly would be happy to put up signs like that. Just from what Leanne said earlier, I don't know if she, I'm sure she would like to speak now at the full meeting, but she's correct that we have had the east leg of St. Mrs. Street open on and off throughout construction as we've needed to close different sections of Eddy Street at different times.
 So we have opened and closed it. So I think part of the issue with the U-turns that she may have experienced is that the residents of the eastern department have become accustomed to driving down Georgiana Street and accessing the parking lots through St. Vincent Street. And then, you know, we closed because we need to, you know, work in that area. And they
 they're just not accustomed to doing it. I think once it's fully closed and people are accustomed to that, they're going to know to go down Eddy Street and access it that way. But a sign is certainly a good idea. Chair, I've got a comment and a question.
 Mr. Halsey, this is Troy Warner. I myself have kind of, as you said, parts of Eddy Street have been opened and closed and parts of St. Vincent Street have been open and closed. And I've gotten turned around and actually even had to do a U-turn there on Georgiana Street, you know, after going to Chipotle or Five Guys there. I think once the traffic pattern gets set
 And you don't have people trying to use Georgianne Street because Eddy Street is closed. I think that'll alleviate some. I mean, given that you've got this large retail up there, there will be, you know, traffic in that area. I've talked to some of the neighbors. This vacating this section has been part of the plan since at least 2016 of phase two. Is that correct? Yeah.
 It was in that time frame, yes. I think the original plan, when we presented the original plan to them, there was a lot of pushback on through traffic coming through. That's what I've heard more complaints about, making sure that that was closed and there was a buffer between the student housing there and the Georgianne Triangle neighborhood there. Yeah.
 That's the brief feedback that I have largely heard and what we've tried to respond to going back, going on three years now with this plan. Thank you so much. I'd also like to ask for input. Tim Sexton is also on the call with the university. Tim, do you have anything you'd like to add?
 Yes, this is Tim Sexton, address 51222 Outer Drive, South Bend, Indiana. I have received throughout the Eddy Street Phase 2 planning and as well into Phase 3 numerous calls and questions from the Triangle Homeowners Association that I've directed to Kite and responded to. This particular issue was raised multiple times, and it was of the...
 overwhelming majority that wanted to see that road to be closed down and limiting that access. And I have, I think it was a question of one of the council members earlier, have others provided new feedback relative that I have heard nothing to the contrary there. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I got a point of order and I don't mean any harm. I swear I do not, this is Henry.
 Is Mr. Sexton a part of their presentation? Mr. Sexton is a part of the petitioners, correct. He works for the University of Notre Dame. Okay. I didn't catch that earlier, nor did I catch that during the committee hearing. That's why I'm asking. That was all at one time, so I didn't know. My apologies. I don't know if I stated that Notre Dame was the underlying landowner. No, you didn't.
 Thank you. Thank you so much for your question. At this time, I would like to turn it over to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill number 19-20? Councilwoman McBride, this is Graham from the clerk's office. We do have one individual that has placed their spot in the queue, Ms. Leanne McLaughlin.
 If you could please, Ms. McLaughlin, unmute yourself at this time. I'll be given, I believe, five minutes for public comment. And please say your name and address for the record. Thank you. Leanne McLaughlin, 1120 Georgiana. I understand that many people in the neighborhood would like to see the road closed. I would question how often the city actually moves to vacate a street that is in fact used.
 Most of the time when the city is vacating property, they are vacating unused alleys, unused streets, dead-end streets, streets that really only impact one or two households rather than entire community. I feel like Eddy Street is part of our neighborhood, and we should be able to move in and out of our entire neighborhood without constraint.
 I would also suggest that because we have not actually seen what traffic looks like when the apartments are in use, when the new houses on the west side of Eddie Street are built, or I'm sorry, the west side of Georgiana are built, that it is not appropriate for us to vacate a street that is used at this time simply upon speculation of what traffic will be like in the future.
 Kite and Notre Dame have built a number of green spaces into this project. And I think that those green spaces more than make up for the green space we would lose from not having this street vacated. That's really it. Thank you, Ms. McLaughlin. Is there anyone else in the public? I'm going to speak on Bill 1920. Okay.
 at this time in the month. The bill is now closed. I'll turn it back over to the petitioner if you have a rebuttal. I don't have a rebuttal at this time. Right, it's not. Let's say the council, yes. Chair, I'd like to make a motion to send this bill 19-20 to the full council favorably. I had a comment before we went to a vote, but I can might just mind, I guess, a second.
 It's just a comment. I don't think it's gonna change anything. Second. Mr. Davis. Yes, thank you. Look, this is exactly the reason why I asked that question two weeks ago when this was on the first reading about traffic patterns. I was admonished by a colleague that sits with us because I asked a question about future planning ideas. I think it's prudent on the end of the council to find out these things,
 well in advance before we even vote on them. Traffic patterns can either interrupt or enhance traffic commerce. And if we don't look at how the money is going to end up flowing, commerce meaning money, traffic meaning money,
 South Bend is going to be in a really, really bad predicament. We're shutting down traffic patterns on the west side of the river, but we're opening them up on the east side of the river. It's fact. And so if they're doing it on the east side of the river because it's helping to build a stronger tax base, then why are we not doing it on the west side of the river? I'm done.
 Thank you for your comment. Council, I'll move back to you. And we have a motion and a second that was on the floor. So at this time, I will ask Clerk Jones, will you take the roll call please? Yeah. Council Member Warner. Council Member Teschke. Aye. Council Member Nosgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President Wright. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay.
 Council Member McBride. Aye. President Scott. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill number 19 will be sent to the full council with a feasible recommendation. At this time, Clerk Jones would be pleased to give Bill number 2020 a second reading.
 Yes. Public hearing on an ordinance to vacate the following described property. East end of Corby Boulevard, west of South Bend Avenue, portions of former Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue, right ways and covering the existing cul-de-sac north of Corby Boulevard and south side of Howard Street near the intersection of South Bend Avenue. A triangular piece of right away within the limits of old South Bend Avenue, South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is a committee report. Bill number 2020 was read in committee and it came out of committee with a favorable recommendation. And sorry about the mix up earlier, the bills did get mixed up on paper, but this was a favorable recommendation to council. Thank you. Is there a petition of presence? Yes, Tony Halsey with Kite Realty Group again.
 And another name is I will clarify the underlying landowner for this petition. So as we discussed during the Council meeting that could share the screen if everyone would like. This is the area we're talking about south of Howard St, East end of Corby, West of State Road 23 site used to be bisected by Eddy St north to South.
 and then on the northeasterly direction from former South Bend Avenue before the road was realigned. In 2017, we vacated the lion's share of Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue through
 THIS SECTION OF SITE, LEAVING IN PLACE A CALDESAC TO ALLOW FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO TURN AROUND AND SO FORTH AT THE INTERSECTION OF CORBY AND SOUTH BEND. AS WE'RE NOW IN THE THROWS OF DESIGN FOR REDEVELOPING THIS PROPERTY FOR RETAIL COMMERCIAL USE, THESE SECTIONS OF RIDAWAY ARE NOT ON THROUGH STREETS. THEY'RE NO LONGER NEEDED TO MOVE TRAFFIC, YOU KNOW, THROUGH AND OUT THE SITE, BUT THEY ARE NEEDED.
 in order to allow for appropriate redevelopment. So that is my presentation, and I'm here to answer any questions. Thank you so much. Council members, do you have any comments or questions? If not, I will turn it over to the public portion. Is there anyone from the Constitution who can speak in favor or opposition of Bill number 20-20?
 Council Member White, this is Graham Sparks from the City Clerk's Office. As of now, there's been no one that has requested a spot in the queue to speak in favor or an opposition to this bill. I yield. Thank you, Graham. I make a motion to sign 2020 to the full council favorably. Second. Thank you. Can we have the roll call, please? Council Member Teska. Council Member Naczewski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Sir, if you could unshare your screen, that'd be great. Will do. Thank you very much all. Thank you. I would like to see the motion to rise to the committee of the whole report back to the full council. So move. Second.
 Can I have the roll call please? Yes, Council Member Nieskowski, Council Member Tomah-Smartz, Council Member Hammond, Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Tashka. Aye. President White, sorry, President Scott. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 We will now go to third reading. Ms. Jones, would you give third reading on 19-20? Third reading on 19-20. Third reading on an ordinance to make the following described properties. East end of St. Vincent, east of Eddy Street, from the western boundaries of lot six and seven of Eddy Street Commons, section two, to the western boundary of the right of way of Georgiana Street, south end Indiana. Motion to adopt that. Did I hear a second?
 I'll second that. Thank you, Ms. Jones. Roll call. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President White. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Tejka. Aye. Council Member Miszkowski. Aye. President Scott. Seven ayes. Thank you. Ms. Jones, 20-20, please.
 2020, I'm reading on an ordinance to vacate the following described property, East End of Corby Boulevard, West of South Bend Avenue, portions of former Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue, right-of-ways and covering the existing cul-de-sac, North of Corby Boulevard and South Side of Howard Street near the intersection of South Bend Avenue, trying your piece of right-of-way within the limits of Old South Bend Avenue, South Bend, Indiana.
 A motion to adopt bill 2020. Second. Ms. Jones, roll call. Councilmember Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teske. Aye. Councilmember Neskowski. Aye. Councilmember Tumac Morgan. President Scott.
 Aye. Aye. Thank you, Miss Jones. We will move to resolutions. Miss Jones, would you please read 20-08?
 Resolution 2008, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend confirming certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 316 East Monroe Street, South Bend 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year real property tax abatement for WSJM, Inc.,
 Thank you. I just want to remind all council members, some of you are new. These are confirming, so these are a confirmation hearing on the tax abatements that we heard two weeks ago. By state law, we have to hear these a second time. This is just confirming. There's no committee report or committee input at this time.
 Legally by law, you typically have to vote the same way that you voted two weeks ago on these confirmings as long as nothing has changed from weeks ago until now. With that, is there a petitioner or a presenter? Yes, sir. Dan Buckenmeier, Director of Business Development at the
 Department of Community Investment 14th floor of the City County Building. Thank you commissioners or council members We bring before you Graham if you can shoot forward probably to so I'm sorry back one slide actually there so This is a facility at 316 Rose Street East Monroe Street. We the city staff is very excited about seeing a
 rehabilitation of this building and reuse of this building by a company that is seeing a bit of a homecoming to South Bend, WSJM and four other stations.
 coming back to South Bend where they originally were. The next slide outlines just some of the things we shared with you, the highlights of the private investment of over three and a half million dollars, 23 retained jobs. There will be three new jobs created. We are providing a abatement. Now, if
 If you will, abatements, there are three that we are talking about here. A vacant building tax abatement, crediting them for the fact that they are rebuilding a building that has been vacant for several years. A real property tax abatement, which gives them a bit of a break on the property.
 any increase in the value for a short amount of time, five years specifically, and then a personal property tax abatement, which abates again, five years on any taxes on the tremendous investment in radio equipment, studios, and so on that will go into that building. It's a great boon for this specific part of town. It's a great boon for a building that was a problem building.
 Bill Gamble from Midwest Family Broadcasting, I know, and Bernie Langer on. Gentlemen, if you want to add anything, and then we'll open up to questions. No, thank you, Dan. Bill Gamble, 6641 Dockside Drive, South Bend. I'm the general manager for Midwest Family here in South Bend. I have to thank the council for the meeting two weeks ago. I will tell you that the welcome and the encouragement for our investment back into the city was phenomenal.
 It felt great. The day after the Tribune story came out, some of our potential new neighbors made it a point to welcome us to the neighborhood. Been able to speak with Mike Coleman of the Monroe Street Association. We'll be attending the meeting there at least virtually in June. And we'd like to thank you because we're very excited. As I said last week, WSVT is.
 Signed on on July 3rd, 1922. And we are looking forward to having our 100th anniversary in South Bend. Thank you, sir. Sorry.
 Sure, Bernie Lang, 1706 Madison Street, Madison, Wisconsin. With national construction, we've previously constructed ground-up buildings for Midwest family. One in Madison, Wisconsin, one in Springfield, Missouri. Built a great relationship with them. They're so excited about this building. They like to...
 to find the buildings either build them that way or in this case, find a building that can withstand like an F4 tornado because when something bad happens through Mother Nature, they have to be online and they have to be on the air and this is a great building for that purpose. So we're really excited about it. Thank you, sir. Is there any questions from Council?
 Hearing none, we'll open up to the public. Anyone from the public wishing to speak on Bill or Resolution 2008? Graham, do you have anybody? Ms. President, no. There has been no one to sign up for that. Thank you. We'll turn it back to counsel. What's your pleasure on 2008? Motion to move Bill 2008 for passage. Second. Second. Thank you all. Ms. Jones, roll call, please.
 I'm sorry. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes.
 Thank you, Ms. Jones. Would you please read 2010? 2010, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend confirming certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 316 East Monroe Street, South Bend, 46601. Economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for WSJM. Zero. Okay.
 I'm sorry, President Scott, same presentation, same company. Again, this personal property tax abatement would address five-year abatement on personal property taxes on equipment installed inside the building. Thank you. What is your name and address for the record? Okay.
 Pardon me, Dan Buckenmeier, 14th floor of the City-County Building, Department of Community Investment. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody, petitioners, want to add anything that you didn't add already? No, I think we're good. Thank you. All right. Thank you all. Council, any questions? Yes.
 A motion to move bill 2010 for passage. Hang on. We need to check to see if the public wants input. Yep. Sorry. Mr. President, there has been nobody, there's nobody from the public that has wished to speak in favor or opposition to this bill. I yield. Thank you, Ms. Nagatsky. Your motion stands. Is there a second? Second. Thank you. Ms. Jones, roll call. Council Member Davis. Council Member McBride. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Tejka. Aye. Council Member Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. President Scott. Aye. Nine-nine. Thank you. Ms. Jones, 2012, please.
 2012, a resolution of the Common Council of South Bend confirming certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 316 Eastman Road Street, South Bend 46001, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year vacant building tax abatement for WSJM-E.
 Thank you. Is there a presenter, please? Yes, sir. Dan Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development and Community Investment, 14th Florida County City Building. So, again, same company, generally the same presentation applies. This specific abatement gives them additional...
 I guess credit or abatement on the building itself, the existing tax value, given that they are repurposing it and taking a long vacant building and bringing it back into the tax rolls. Thank you. Thank you. Council, any questions? Hearing none, Mr. Sparks, anyone from the public? Mr. President, no, sir. Thank you. We'll turn it back to council. What's your pleasure? Motion to move bill 2012 for passage.
 Was that a second? Thank you. Ms. Jones, roll call. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teschke. Aye. Council Member Nesboski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President Scott. Aye.
 Aye. Nine, aye. Thank you. Ms. Jones, 2014, please. 2014, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend confirming certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1702 Robinson Street, South Bend, 46613, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Baymar Plastics. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Yes, sir. Dan Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development, Department of Community Investment, 14th floor of the City-County Building.
 So Baymar Plastics, you can go to the next slide, Graham. Thank you. Perfect. Is a longstanding business in South Bend on the near southeast side, woman-owned business. And even the best of times, it behooves us to support a company that is taking actions to strengthen themselves and make themselves more diversified to keep both their existing employees productive.
 employed in our community as well as bring on new ones. In this case, they are expanding their production capabilities and looking into new markets. They are investing in new equipment and we want to, the Department of Community Investment recommends that we support them in doing so by abating those personal property taxes just on that equipment. There's no abatement on any property or anything else, real property.
 Ms. Trisha Blair, CFO, and Heather Meeksell, I think, CEO, are both on the call if they would like to add anything.
 So, yes, this is Heather Mikesell, the president and CEO of Baymar Plastics. So thank you, Common Council members, for hearing us and considering our personal for personal property tax statement. We are looking at the necessity for automation and expansion in 2020. So primarily we serve the automotive market, and we also dabble in medical, RV, and consumer goods.
 We consider this expansion and automation essential to the company's survival. Over the last three years, go ahead. Can I hear your question? No. Could you state your name and address for the record, please? I'm sorry. I'm Heather Meichel, 1702 Robinson Street, South Bend. Thank you. So we're increasing our press size. Councilman. Okay.
 No, go ahead. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have a must be a microphone problem. So we're increasing our press size capacity and exist in addition to auxiliary tooling and equipment. We're adding thermalators, CNC, EDM machines, electronic hoists. We need to beef up our infrastructure by improving our IT solutions with new computers, new software, communication equipment, in addition to upgrading our ERP.
 Automation is the name of the game when it comes to plastics these days that we're going to compete with the Asian markets and that's what we're trying to do here in America. Thank you so much. Council, are there any questions? Hearing none, Mr. Graham, is there anybody, Graham Sparks, is there anybody from the public wishing to speak? Mr. President, there is no one from the public wishing to speak. I yield. Thank you. Turn it back to council. What's your motion?
 Motion to move bill 2014 for passage. Thank you. Ms. Jones, roll call. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Tesco. Aye. Council Member Kowalski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member McBride. Aye. President Scott. There'd be an aye. And the bill was 2014. I'm sorry, I said 2015. So thank you so much. Aye. Ms. Jones, would you please read 2015?
 2015, a resolution of the Parliament Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, calling on Governor Eric J. Holcomb to initiate a more robust, compassionate program for the early release of nonviolent incarcerated persons most vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you. Is there a presenter? Thank you, Senator.
 Absolutely, and I want to make mention too, because I'm looking at the paperwork right now. I got some problems with the timing, but a co-sponsor on there as well as Ms. Lori Hammond. Mr. Davis? He's thinking of committee report. Just one moment. There needs to be a committee report. I'm sorry, Mr. Warner, on the committee report.
 Yes, the bill comes from the Committee of Health and Public Safety with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Sorry about that. Mr. Davis-Hammond, go ahead with your presentation. You see, Tim, I respond to commands, man.
 Awesome. A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, calling on Governor Eric J. Holcomb to initiate a more robust and compassionate program for the early release of non-violent incarcerated persons most vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic. Whereas the Governor of Indiana, Eric J. Holcomb, has issued several executive orders in favor
 intended to protect the citizens of Indiana from COVID-19 pandemic and whereas the Indiana Department of Correction has issued preparedness and response plans for the COVID-19 pandemic and whereas jails and prisons are designed to maximize control of the incarcerated population instead of minimizing disease transmission. The fact is compounded by number one, after
 overcrowded, unsanitary conditions, lack of adequate access to hygiene materials, much such as water or hand sanitizers. Number two, poor nutrition and failure to adhere to recognized standards for disease prevention, all of which have disastrous public health effects. And
 The frequent transfer of individuals from one jail facility to another and intake of newly detained individuals from the community further complicate the prevention and detection of infectious disease outbreaks. A timely response to reported
 and observe symptoms is needed to interrupt viral transmissions. Yes, delays in testing, diagnosis, and access to care are dangerous in jails and prisons. And whereas statistics released by IDOC
 already revealed at least 2,278 staff members and 605 incarcerated persons tested positive for COVID-19, which two confirmed or presumed deaths for staff members, staff members and 16 confirmed or presumed deaths of incarcerated persons from COVID-19. And whereas these numbers continue to increase and are likely understated,
 due to the limited number of diagnostic tests performed on this population. And whereas health systems and other resources are already severely taxed by the daily exponential increase in COVID-19 cases, and whereas intensive care unit
 Bed space is reaching capacity. Rapid disastrous outbreaks in Indiana and jails and prisons will put further strain on the already saturated health care system as infected individuals are transferred for treatment to local hospitals, thereby exacerbating issues of contamination of the virus and put more members of our community at risk. Whereas incarcerated persons are one of society's most.
 medically neglected and vulnerable populations. And whereas within this population are even more vulnerable persons, including those who are 65 and older with underlying health conditions. And whereas World Health Organization states that the rights of all people must be upheld and all public health measures must be carried out without
 discrimination of any kind. People in prisons and other places of detention are not only likely to be more vulnerable to infection with COVID-19, they are also especially vulnerable to human rights violations. It is the state's responsibility to protect incarcerated people and whereas all people under the control are entitled to the protection of the state. Now the
 Therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, follows Section 1. Governor Eric J. Holcomb is called upon to initiate more robust and compassionate plans similar to plans initiated by the federal government and the governments of several other states. Section 2, plans should include a minimum of the following points. Number one, provide the diagnostic testing and medical care for all COVID-related patients.
 free of charge to all incarcerated persons together with those released under this plan.
 Number two, work with judges for the immediate release of as many as possible from the Indiana State Prison System, in particular those 65 plus, those with underlying health conditions, those due to be released within the next 12 to 15 months, and those who are low-level nonviolent offenders. Number three, assign signatures to everyone currently held on bail
 Signature bonds, I'm sorry. Everyone currently held on bail or pretrial detention. Number four, guarantee conditions of release with the least restrictions possible, discouraging the use of electronic monitoring. Number five, provide testing for everyone who traffics in and out.
 and out of Indiana State Prison, including staff and personnel that work at the prison. Number six, requires the availability of sufficient soap and alcohol-based hand sanitizer for the incarcerated individuals without a charge. Number seven, ensure those released have access to trauma-informed community-based services in order for
 in order to help stabilize their transition back into society. Number eight, conduct a needs assessment in collaboration with social workers and community organizations.
 to determine what resources and support may be needed for individuals prior to the release. Number nine, provide free video and phone calls to individuals in NES prisons until they are released in light of in-person visits being suspended. Number 10, without the transfer of incarcerated individuals from one prison to another,
 and from one cell block to another, as this would do more to increase the risk of COVID-19 transmission than curb its spread. Section three, the plan should be initiated manually in order to protect not only incarcerated persons and staff at prisons and jails, but also community at large, which will inevitably, inevitably,
 be adversely affected by continuing spread of the disease within the prisons and jails. Council members, I ask that you guys adopt this by full acclamation. Thank you, Ms. Hammond. Is there anything you would like to add? Any council members, do they have any questions? I don't have any questions, but I have a comment that I'd like to make when there's time. Okay.
 Okay, we'll go to comments after the public hearing. Any questions at this point? Sorry, President Scott, I was muted apparently. Can I make a statement? Yes, you may. I just want to reiterate that these are extremely vulnerable populations. Many of them are people of color. Many of them come from the most impoverished regions of the state.
 And so we need to make sure that we are focusing on the care and the well-being of these individuals as well. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Teschke, I believe you had a question. I do. I've got several. So we had talked earlier in committee, and we ran out of time for some of my questions. But yeah.
 We had talked about the governor's authority to do these things and how he's essentially left it up to a lot of the local judges and prosecutors as far as the local jails go. And I believe what Councilman Davis was talking about was more the state prison system and
 And so I wanted to ask some questions about some of the points under Section 2, specifically some of the statements such as providing sufficient hand soap, those types of things. Is there evidence that this is not currently happening in the state prison system? Can you hear me? Okay.
 I can hear you now. Okay, great. No, that was not the intent, sir. The intent is to make sure that what we are asking for is put down on paper. There is not any idea of what is actually happening in the prison systems, but we do know that many people have died and are getting ill, whether it's a worker or inmate or both.
 We want to make sure that they have adequate resources behind those prison walls to help prevent the spread of covid. So there is not an accusation being made. It's just a recommendation, sir. OK, so that answers, I think, maybe a couple of my other questions in regards to Section two.
 You know, number five, right, it's my understanding that at least those that are symptomatic individuals on both sides, right, staff and inmates are being tested. Six as well, you know, that these things may already be happening. If you look at...
 Some information released by the Indiana Department of Corrections. There's there's a very kind of comprehensive plan on how they how they are dealing with this and how they're testing the quarantining and trying to introduce mitigating efforts within the prison population. So so I just wanted to clarify clarify that. But I don't take what they are doing as necessarily gospel.
 I have family in the Department of Corrections. I have friends as well. Some of the stories are not the best. OK, so I'm not going to go into that because we're dealing with a document that's going through government body. But what I want you to understand is that everything that you do read.
 is not necessarily consistent with what the practice is behind the walls of the prison. I would like to also add that there are several different agencies that work with these populations, and they're not reporting that it's this perfectly smooth process either. So I think it's good that we state and have it on paper so that –
 They know that we are being vigilant. Okay. Any other questions? Thank you. I don't have any other questions at this point. I may have some comments when we come back around. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? Hearing none, I will open up to the public. Anyone from the public wishing to speak on Resolution 2015? Mr. Graham? Sparks? Mr. President, no. There has been no one to put their name in the queue. You'll hear me.
 Thank you. We will start with any comments. I think Ms. Tomas Morgan was the first one to mention she wanted to comment. Thank you, President Scott. Thank you to the co-sponsors of this bill, Ms. Lori Hammond and Mr. Henry Davis. There's nothing in this resolution that I disagree with. In principle, I agree with what it says.
 and how it is written. I do want to share just a couple comments about, and maybe it's myself learning about these kinds of resolutions. We know, I understand this resolution has zero legal effect. Sometimes it feels like such resolutions play to
 to politics and for political gain. I want to encourage the two of you who are co-sponsors of the bill, who I also see themselves as advocates for this, to take outside of the resolution concrete action steps.
 and conversations with the governor or other bodies that can actually make, turn this resolution into reality. And so that's just my comment I wanted to share, request that I make to you. I also just want to recognize...
 Our citizen member, Mr. Desmond Upchurch, who I thought in the committee meeting raised some really important questions and had some insightful comments that he had raised and wanted to just raise that up here. Thank you. Thank you. I believe, Mr. Tashka, you also had a comment? Yeah.
 Yeah, I've got maybe a couple. So one is, again, Councilwoman Nitzkowski brought this up in committee, but
 Under some some or sorry section 2 subsection 4 Discursion use of electronic monitoring that is one that it's a piece of this that That I'm struggling with and I understand the petitioners response and committee about the financial impact of that but I
 But I think that, you know, we, you know, if releasing folks because of health reasons do need to, you know, continue to monitor those individuals. And so, or at least have the flexibility for that. And so I take some issue with that. Also, seven and eight.
 again and kind of echoing what Councilwoman Tomas-Morgan said, not that I necessarily disagree with anything in any of these pieces, right, so ensuring that folks have access to trauma-informed community-based services to transition back to society and needs assessments to determine what resources and support may be needed. These two pieces I think
 you could take out of this and right i mean despite covet 19 right this this could be something um that would be um uh could be handled uh or at least um asked for um kind of in a separate resolution um you know even if we weren't in this pandemic situation and so you know my my my question i guess would be my my not question but that would be that i'm not sure if we're asking
 for the immediate release of folks, you know, is there time, what's the timing and the timing of doing these types of things, right, when we're in an emergency situation. And so there's some issues, I think, there with that as well. And then again, just to echo Councilwoman Tomas-Morgan, I think everything she just said about, you know, these types of resolutions and the effectiveness of, you know, I would echo all of her.
 comments there. So I appreciate the intent here. I do have some issues with the language itself, but that's my comment. Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Warner. We've got a few, just a few comments. I was going to make them in committee, but we kind of ran out of time. I think...
 I'm not a big fan. I've said this before. I'm going to keep saying it. I'm not a big fan of these resolutions where we have zero authority or zero force to, and we're telling other governmental bodies that we believe they should be doing something.
 My experience is that you can have much more success if you reach out and talk to these governmental agencies. If you call the DOC, the director of the DOC, and talk to these folks, you can find some bridge and build some common ground. You know, the council in the past has done a lot of these. Tell President Trump to do this or tell Congress to do that. And my experience is these are...
 forgotten as quickly as we vote on them. So I encourage the council going forward to, you know, really think hard about these resolutions. That being said, I do support the spirit of the resolution and the outcome that attempts to get to. I do want to, you know, I provided a stat earlier, you know, for information back in March, the state Supreme Court
 gave decided that One large approach for the whole state was not going to work for 92 counties. There would not be a proper cookie cutter approach and encouraged all the the local judges the local prosecutors and the local sheriffs to come up with a plan for their County
 As far as releasing people, as far as testing, as far as medical care for individuals. And that happened here in St. Joseph County. Our local jail population is down one third across the state. The average in the county jails is down a third. We've had, you know, there were some numbers listed.
 in the committee meeting and our state county jail numbers far exceed those numbers. We've had 5,600 people
 reduced in the county jail and the population numbers. So, you know, a lot of this stuff is happening at the local level as the governor intended. That being said, I do support what the resolution is trying to get to and understand that it's focused more towards the DOC, even though I have some disagreement as Councilman Teschko does with some of the wording in the text of it, thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Warner. Is there anybody else wanting to make a comment? As one of the co-sponsors, can I comment? Sure. Thank you. I appreciate the input that all of you have brought forth. I just would like to say that this resolution is basically a way of expressing our will. It is the first step.
 to moving forward and contacting the necessary powers downstate that can make a difference around this issue and i do intend to move forward with this and any of you that would like to join me i would welcome that as well thank you thank you miss hammond uh anyone else if not i'll entertain a motion hold on to him i sent a letter to graham
 I don't know if he's gotten it or not. Ram, did you get it? Yeah, Council Member Davis, I was about to text you. You emailed me what seems to be a letter of support for this resolution. Yes, sir. Can you read that to the record for me, please? So...
 Seems to be the council from the city of Indianapolis, Marion County, Keith Graves, counselor, District 13, to whom may concern the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a lot of lives in the span of one month. Pandemic has affected everyone in the state of Indiana, the old, the young, the rich, the poor, the free, and those behind prison walls. COVID-19 has already killed both inmates and custodial staff in many prisons in Indiana.
 Prisoners do not have the ability to be separated from the sick nor to quote social distance and quote themselves.
 As city councilor, District 13, I'm ready to express my concern with the risk of COVID-19 that the prisoners of Indiana face and to try to be a voice for the criminally convicted in order to survive the novel coronavirus life as we know it must change. I support any and all efforts to protect prisoners from the exposure of the virus. Sincerely, signed Keith Graves, city councilor, city county councilor, District 13. Okay, thank you. Um,
 Reason why I asked to be written record obviously because it needs to be read in the record The second reason why is because as this process continues with Lori as well This resolution will be also sent to the governor's office But what is happening at this point is that upon passage and I'm asking you guys to pass this This will end up going to different municipal bodies. It will go down to Evansville. It will go down to Indianapolis it will go to
 Gary, it will go to Fort Wayne, the largest, the larger size communities here in the state of Indiana, with an effort to get them to pass a resolution of the same to help push the governor and the state, the state legislator to action.
 And so that's the bill and that's the idea. But we had to clear hurdle one here first. So South Bend will be obviously the torchbearer in this despite to getting some equality for those behind bars. So I thank you all for your favorable support on this. It's just not a feel good moment. It's not something that we are doing because it's political. We're doing it because it's necessary and because we are elected.
 elected members of a city government. We are required to act upon and act on behalf of our constituency base. And many of these people that we are impacting have people who are behind prison walls. So it's just not a feel good moment. Let's not diminish our role in our society. We have authority and I plan on using it and I hope you help me use it, thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Davis. We are at the point for a motion. I make a motion for the adoption of Resolution 20-15. Thank you. Roll call, Ms. Jones, please. Council Member Teska? Nay. Council Member Stavsky? You said aye? Aye. Okay. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Ms. Jones, would you please read, we'll go to first readings and would you please give first reading at 1220.
 1220, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adding Article 1, Division 2, Sections 2-12.2.1, 2 and including 2-12.2.9 of Chapter 2 of the South Bend Municipal Code to create a Citizens Police Complaint Board and procedures governing the board.
 i would like uh like to make a motion that 12 20 go to community relations subcommittee for first i mean for second and third reading on helping me out with the day because i'm lost on it right now mr davis there is no sub yes
 Just regular committee? Regular committee. Well, regular committee. I'm sorry. That's okay. What are the dates that we're dealing with, Tim? I'm sorry. It would be June 8th. I don't like all of this technology at one time. I'm just going to be honest with you. This stuff is like doing me. Again, I'm sorry. It's June what? 12th?
 June 8th is the next Common Council meeting and then June 22nd. Okay. Okay. Those dates for second and third public reading. On which one? June 12th. I'm sorry. June 8th and June 22nd. Thank you. Thank you. June 8th. For second and third public hearing. Is there a second? Ms. Jones, roll call. Okay.
 Council Member Naskowski. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye. Vice President Wright. Aye. Aye. Council Member Davids. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teske. Aye. President Scott. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. Ms. Jones, please give first reading to 2120. 2120. 2120.
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance numbers 10472-16 and 10682-19 as to the annual pay and residency incentive pay of sworn members of the South Bend Police Department for calendar year 2020. Is there a motion to send this to personnel and finance for...
 June's eighth hearing. So moved. I second. Roll call. Council member Jones, roll call. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Vice President White. Council member Davis. Council member Davis. I told you I was not happy with this technology. Council member McBride. Council member Warner. Aye.
 Council Member Teska. Aye. Council Member Nieszkowski. Aye. President Scott. Aye. Nine.
 Thank you. Unfinished business, could I entertain a motion to set the hearing date for the appeal of a denial of a certificate of appropriateness COA debt number 20191007A, Ben and Carrie Modlin versus Historic Preservation Commission for June 7th. So moved. Thank you.
 I second. Point of clarification, Mr. President, this is Rand from the clerk's office. You said June 7th, you mean June 8th, that meeting? I'm sorry, June 8th. Just wanna make sure. Okay. You ready for roll call? Thank you, Ms. Jones. Roll call, please. Council Member Hammond. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis.
 Councilmember McBride. I also remember Warner. Councilmember Teshka. Councilmember Nizgatsky. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. President Scott. President Scott. Yes, yes, OK. Everything went dead.
 Are we still under unfinished business? Yes. Okay. Did you guys hear me read? Oh, no. Not under. Yeah, we are under unfinished business. I'm sorry. Is there any other unfinished business? Yes. Yeah, it is. I just have a really quick comment about as we're leading into a new idea or a new, I guess, homeless situation.
 I guess this is going to be another advocacy group built out of community members or elected officials. One thing that I want to point out today was really difficult out there for many members of the community, at least the whole nine. But one thing I want to make mention of is that if we're interested in helping, we can't show up with a SWAT team to gain control of a situation that is not violent.
 We do in that manner and that way, we can expect that same type of response from the people that are being policed. I know everybody gave kudos to everybody that was out there because the conversation and the situation was calmed down. But that's not what I got. I got phone calls about the activity and some of the violent nature in which it was handled by our local police department.
 I don't know how SWAT ends up out in front of some homeless people that we know that's unarmed, that is very vulnerable and need help. I don't know how that happens. I don't know why it's good practice, but that's what actually happened. So we need to pull back, retool our position. If we're interested in helping, maybe not show up with guns and assault rifles. I think that probably will make a little bit more of the atmosphere a little bit softer.
 and then have a better conversation with those who are trying to help. I digress. Thank you. Is there any other unfinished business scene? And we'll move to new business. As you received from our attorney, Bob Palmer, we're offering up a standard operating procedure, number 01-2020, Self-Income Council Addressing Electronic Meeting Attendance. According to state law and the governor's,
 We can actually put in place a standard operating procedure, which we would like to do, that would allow council members who cannot attend regularly, once we go back to in-person council meetings, be given the opportunity to attend and vote via electronic. Basically, the same that we can do our council meetings now. And Bob Palmer, correct me if I'm
 if i may make a mistake on this um the standard operating procedure we would someone would have to have an extraordinary uh reason they could not be there maybe flu maybe some reason they had emergency travel it's not just because you don't want to come to a council meeting you can do it electronically from home there's got to be a purpose and a reason
 Council members there would be in control of and discretion to say whether that person can join the meeting electronically or not. There's got to be at least six council members present presiding over the meeting. I'm sorry. That could be either electronically or in person. We need at least three members to be in personal attendance. All right.
 And the one issue, if you guys read the SOP, is number five. A member who participates in the meeting by electronic communication may not cast a deciding vote on any official action. So if you are not there and you want to go and vote and you are that deciding vote in a 5-4 vote,
 Your vote would not be cast as the deciding vote. Your vote would be cast in the majority, whether it be to adopt or defeat. That's the one thing. What that means is someone couldn't be sitting in Aruba and make a final decision that they couldn't do it in public. Mr. Palmer, am I correct in that? Is there anything else you want to add to that detail?
 That's correct. I believe it's number seven. Yeah, it's number seven. Okay. No, that's correct. If you're not participating physically in person, you cannot cast a deciding vote. And other than that, you would be able to virtually be a part of this meeting and cast votes. So any comments on that? President Scott, please.
 Turn my camera on. I just have a clarifying question, if that's all right. Yeah, no problem. Just going back to what you said in the beginning. So the wording is the decision of extraordinary circumstances is at the discretion of the presiding member physically present at the meeting. So you're saying that those of us at the meeting. OK, thanks for that. Correct. OK. OK.
 And is it, I'm sorry, I don't have the SOP in front of me, but I mean, does it state their examples of extraordinary circumstances? I know you mentioned a couple right here. No. Okay. Is there a need for us to do that? I think it would be on a case-by-case basis as things come up.
 you know, a sick family member or something that would prevent them from coming there physically. Something on that nature, something on a more serious nature than just deciding that someone wouldn't be able to attend. Now,
 There's no rules or laws put in place. There's no recall in the state of Indiana for council members. You know, you don't even have to show up to any of these meetings and the voters would make that decision later. But this is a way to avoid any attendance issues down the road. If you could, you know, maybe business or work has called you out of town, but you can attend that meeting in the evening.
 And we would have to take it case by case. Bob, is there anything else you're thinking on that? No, not really. As I explained to you earlier, I think this would be a truly extraordinary and seldom used provision once we get outside the pandemic issues. You can always choose to have an excused.
 absence from a meeting this comes into play only though not only but primarily if there's something of specific importance to you that you do want to discuss and vote on and do you think it's important that you be there or be a member voting and can't physically be there thank you yeah anything else from anybody okay Bob we don't need a vote or anything on this do we
 The council has to vote. It has to be a passed by majority vote. Okay.