I'd like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat. Directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input again, please insert your name and address in the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input.
 You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert into the chat, again, your name and your address, and the council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you.
 At this time, we will have Apostle Dennis Givens of New Horizon Outreach Ministry. Please come and give us the invocation. Welcome. Blessings. Let's bow our heads.
 Dear Gracious Father, we come in your presence and we thank you, God, Lord, for this wonderful meeting, God. And we thank you, God, for the wisdom, God, that would be expressed out of every heart, Father. And every issue, Father God, Lord, I pray that you give wisdom, God, that it would be solved in some way or matter. I pray your goodness and your mercy and your blessings upon this meeting in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Thank you. Will you please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance?
 Thank you. Chuck Jones, would you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Council Member Lee should be on virtual. Council Member Lee. And when he comes, I'll make note. And same with Council Member Davis. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Present.
 Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Seven present. Thank you. At this time, we have a special resolution honoring Erin Perry. Mr. Perry, I've never seen you sit over on that side of the room before. I don't know if I want to read this resolution, Mr. Perry. Karen McBride, 415 East Broadway Street. Karen White, 1912 Melvin Way. Perry Warner, 623 Marquette Avenue. Thank you.
 Thank you. A special resolution of South Bend Common Council, the residents of the City of South Bend honoring a true visionary, Aaron Perry, Executive Director of the Department of Venues, Parks, and Arts for his many and transformative contributions to the City of South Bend. Whereas a visionary is defined as a person with original ideas about what the future will or could be like, and a person thinking about or planning the future with imagination or wisdom.
 Whereas Executive Director of the Department of Venues, Parks and Arts, Aaron Perry, is not only a visionary by these definitions, his many contributions to the quality of life of South Bend residents,
 establish that he is also a leader, a planner, a co-worker, a fundraiser, a marketer, and whatever else is necessary to help him and his staff to give effect to his vision of creating a better life for the residents of the City of South Bend. And...
 Whereas in 2015, Aaron was persuaded by Mayor Pete Bullerjudge to leave his position as Executive Director of Downtown South Bend Incorporated and assume a position as Director Parks and Recreation, which would soon evolve into Executive Director of Venues, Parks and Arts,
 with the expanded role of managing city venues, including the Morris Performing Arts Center, the Palace Royal, and the Century Center. And whereas Aaron probably never envisioned that his new position would one day, during a 1,000-year flood,
 caused him to walk the East Bank Trail in the dead of night to evaluate the damage. And whereas Aaron has never been known as a man of few words, I can't contest to that, which is the respect of someone who has overseen the with excitement and enthusiasm projects such as the Howard Park
 renovation to the MindSouth Bend Parks and Trail Initiative, which allocated nearly $100 million for approximately 50 different parks projects to the installation of the river lights,
 to the celebration of the 100-year birthday of the Morris Performing Arts Center and South Bend's 105th anniversary, to the renovation of the Charles Black Center, to the plan Martin Luther King Jr.'s Dream Center, and
 Whereas Aaron has the same passion for smaller projects, such as the community art mural at the corner of Colfax Avenue and Woodward Court, which includes representations of nearly every demographic of South Bend, inclusive of age, race, religion, sexual orientation, political belief, income level, education status, and beyond.
 And whereas Aaron led and sometimes even had to conjole or prod his team members to excellence, telling them, make it bigger, light it on fire, let them zip line down. Whereas this passion resulted in the department's award of the 2022 National Gold Medal Award for Excellence in Park and Recreation Management from the Academy for Park,
 and Recreation Administration, honoring the department for excellence in long-range planning, resource management, and innovative approaches to superior park and recreation services. And whereas one of Aaron's particular passions is the live entertainment booked at the Morris Performing Arts Center, an outgrowth of his time booking entertainment at Legends at Notre Dame, which served Aaron and the city well during the...
 the need on multiple occasions for Aaron to step in and manage the Morris during leadership transitions. And whereas Aaron is so proud of the Morris, he has a condominium overlooking the Morris and the plaza, although it has been rumored that Aaron uses this location at times to keep watch over his team members working at the Morris and at the plaza.
 I don't know if I can do that quite as well as Troy has done it, okay? Whereas Aaron is driven by details from his hand on planning for each of the city's fireworks displays to his knowledge of the name and jobs of every one of his 100 plus members of the Department of Venues, Parks and Arts to his desire to make
 every person feel welcome to the city's public spaces and whereas one co-worker has said that aaron has been changing the landscape of south bend since two thousand and eight while another has described aaron as someone who lived
 8 and briefed BPA. And whereas the city and more particularly the Department of Venues, Parks, and Arts as a token of appreciation for Aaron's lasting contributions will name the plaza as the newly improved Sites Parks, AP plaza at Sites Parks with a sign proclaiming,
 in honor of Aaron Perry and his dedication to the city of South Bend. This is just one of your surprises, Mr. Perry. Now, therefore, a bid resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. The South Bend Common Council publicly honors and thanks Aaron Perry for his many years of dedicated service to the city of South Bend, especially during his tenure as executive director of the Department of VPA.
 The Common Council also wishes Aaron the best in all of his future endeavors, including his recent marriage to Jessica and his new employment. The Common Council assures Aaron that his positive marks on the landscape of the city of South Bend will remain for all to enjoy for many years to come. This resolution shall be in full force and effect from after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the mayor. Let's give Aaron a round of applause.
 We're asking for Aaron's family to come up, please. And also the team of the VPA. Please come up if you are here. Council Member White said I'm never short for words, but this is a rare occasion where I get to come to a meeting unprepared. I don't have anything on the agenda today other than to say thank you for the privilege to serve. I think that's all I want to say.
 no i i will say some thank yous um it's it's really been a privilege to serve um this is my hometown born and raised here my folks are here my brother's here my wife's on the road back so she couldn't quite make it but she might be listening online the amount of support that this community has given at times undeservedly
 but almost always unselfishly has been incredible. Whether it be your public service and the time you give to so many causes and concerns, the people that have donated beyond my wildest imaginations, their treasure to help make a lot of these things possible, the volunteers who
 give of themselves on so many projects and events and the partners that we've been able to form. And of course, the staff that I get to work with that I'm so excited are have been a part of all these things and so excited to cheer them on as a resident because I'll continue to be in South Bend.
 And we've got a really talented team. And I only ask that you continue to extend them the gratitude and support that you've given me through the years. Thank you. And there's my wife. Come on. She's the housewife and family. Thank you all very much. I'm so surprised.
 I will talk a little bit. My first task in 2018, the former President Tim Scott appointed me to be the committee chair for VPA. So all of the countless hours that Aaron and I have spent together in meetings, brainstorming and just listening to him reimagine and envision South Bend, especially after it was deemed a dying city.
 And we have a lot of bike trails, walking trails, connectivity. And there's no one like you, Aaron. And I just will miss you. And I think I'm still in denial that you're leaving. But I'm glad I have your phone number. But all of the many nights that I've called and you've always answered the call and responded. So I want to personally say thank you.
 for your vision, your drive, your innovative style, and your leader in this community is unmatched. So I really appreciate you and will forever be grateful. At this time, I'll open it up to counsel. If you have any comments, I'll start with Rachel Tomas-Morgan. Thank you, President McBride. Mr. Perry, this is really a bittersweet time for us,
 I've so enjoyed being able to work with you in this short period of time that I've been on council so far. And it's clear how much you love your job because it's reflected in your work and in the way that you work with your team. And so thank you for the love and the passion that you've brought to your work. Thank you for the leadership that you provided for our city to make it a beautiful place.
 city, a place where people want to live and work and play. We are going to continue to attract people to the city because of the work that you've done over these many years. Thank you and Godspeed to you. You know, they during the the reading they talked about changing the landscapes of South Bend and as I think about that it's it's your footprint is everywhere.
 And that just shows the caring person that you are, how much you care about our community. And anytime I would want to, hey, Aaron, I want to do something at Walker Field. We want to do a trick or treat with the kids. Sheila, what do you need? What time do you need me to be there? I mean, you just always are willing to whatever an idea that someone has, especially associated with the parks, to just dive in, lend that hand, give us whatever we needed to be successful. So your success is our success. And it's a success for the whole community. Right.
 And you are going to be very missed. But boy, you have certainly made a very big impression and you have someone has some very big shoes to fill. But I wish you all the best. And I have your phone number, too. So if I need that number. But thank you so much, Erin. You're just a wonderful person. Thank you. Sometimes.
 I think everybody says this for every one of these, but I don't know how true it always is. But for this time, it's definitely honest to say I've really enjoyed working with you over the past number of years. Your records and achievements speak for themselves. One among many, the...
 official title the national gold medal award for the best uh park system or venue and park system in of the city of around this size in the entire country i believe it's even more than the country but that speaks for itself but it's not common to find somebody um
 who not only has the talents and abilities and successes but also with the positive attitude and demeanor that you bring to work every day and just the enthusiasm and positivity that you
 I haven't seen anything else. So I don't know that there's another side to you, but I sure haven't seen it. So I'm sure that you will be successful at whatever you do, but I want to wish you that success. And I look forward to continuing up a relationship in whatever capacity may provide. Thank you. And let the record show to my successor that you still owe to Park in the fifth. And I know you won't let them forget that. I'll bring that up, but if we'll put it on the record.
 Dr. Eli, I'll go ahead. The one thing that I would say is it didn't matter how wild or crazy the idea was, nothing seemed impossible for you.
 And I would suggest things during COVID, such as holding meetings out in a park and your crew would show up and draw these huge circles so that people were social distanced and you had the boomer out there. You just made everything possible, but you also made it look so easy.
 And I'm sure it wasn't, but we appreciate all of that. You made us look good in a hundred different situations, but you've brought such joy to the people of the city. And I hope that that will be what you are remembered for because it is a much better place because of you. Thank you. And I think we have Counselor Lee online. Yes, Counselor Lee, you can unmute yourself. Yes.
 Can you guys hear me? Yes. All right. I just wanted to say, and I am traveling today and, uh, it was very important that I make sure that I be able to speak on behalf of the parks committee, but also as a resident and a citizen of South Bend, um, Mr. Perry, you have been, we have grown to become very, very good friends, um, based on the first, first being, uh,
 really introduced to you as a council person that was a heated situation you invited me to your office and we had a great conversation and started looking at ways we could work together and finding so many things in common and it was even at that meeting that we you and i prayed and prayed for you years i'm a single man and i'm looking for a wife
 and we prayed for it. And lo and behold, I said, man, I said, man, those prayers are amazing. Not only did you get a wife, but you got a beautiful, beautiful wife and a partner. And Aaron, I have just loved serving with you and I've loved...
 seeing your passion for our city. I love South Bend, but I think you love South Bend a little bit more than I do. And your hard work, your footprint, your fingerprint on everything that has happened in our city will be remembered for times to come. So I pray for your success. I pray that everywhere that you go, you would be able to influence other cities like you have South Bend. So thank you for your service.
 And thank you for your time. And we appreciate you. Thank you very much. All right. We're going to come down for a picture, but I know this is not on the agenda and it's not formal. But I would like to have a vote on record from counsel approving this resolution. So, Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? I will make a motion. Thank you that the council passed a special resolution honoring Aaron Perry. Second.
 has been moving second in the role please council member lee hi council member warner council member wax council member white i would progress council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president mcgossie aye president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you so much thank you
 I would now entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So moved. There's a motion. Is there a second? The roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that were given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. The first bill we have before us is Bill 1123. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 1123 a second reading?
 11-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1306 1330 High Street and 909 East Broadway Street, Councilman in District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon. It comes to us this evening with an unfavorable recommendation. Thank you so much. And I see...
 Good evening, Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator for the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of this property. The petitioner was seeking a special exception to allow for heavy industrial use, which is essentially a salvage yard at this location. They had been identified to us as doing some major auto repair with a lot of outdoor storage vehicles, you know,
 and vehicles left in disrepair and some major work on those as well. The property has kind of grown in intensity over time. And originally there were a few cars on the lot, and those kind of grew to even more with vehicles up on blocks, partially dismantled, unlicensed vehicles, and then large vehicles kind of extending into the street and Broadway areas.
 to service this use. This went to the Board of Zoning Appeals and came with an unfavorable recommendation. I'm not sure that the petitioner is here, but I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, thank you. Is the petitioner here? And again, for the record, I did call him on Friday and remind him to attend. Thank you so much. I'm going to come back to council members. Do you have any questions, President McBride?
 Well, actually, you answered the question about the lack of response or no response. My comment, if I may give my comments from the Neighborhood Association, and I also live on Broadway, there have been neighbors contacting the council and myself with emails, phone calls, and
 And that has been a nuisance property for quite some time. And the concern about it being in the neighborhood and parking on the street, illegally parked, burnt cars in the yard, and the overflow, and disrupting the neighborhood, and loud noises.
 We worked hard to try to get our neighborhood and good upkeep and a quality of life for everyone. So I will not be supporting this bill. So I also would be in agreement for it being unfavorable and speak on behalf of Comrade Damon of the Neighborhood Association, which I'm a part of the SOAR Neighborhood Association. So just wanted to put on record the community's input for that. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other council members that?
 Has a question? If not, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion then of the meeting. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 1123? There's no one from the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? No one. Oh, someone. If you could come and just state your name and address for us, please.
 Hi, I'm Stephanie Risk. I am the owner of Lang Lab, which is at 1302 High Street. We are right next door. And I just want to thank Sharon for outlining the issues. It's very loud. It's disruptive. It's disconcerting to the guests, to our business and
 The baseball field that's going in literally like a block away is such a benefit to the community. I don't know why we would allow something like this to happen in the same general vicinity. So that's all. Thank you. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition?
 There's no one from the virtual audience that's expressed an interest to speak in opposition of Bill 1123. Okay, thank you so much. At this point, then, I'm going to close the public hearing on Bill 1123. I'll come back to the council members. Do you wish to make any statement, or I'd entertain a motion regarding the bill? I'd like to make a motion that Bill 1123, it was sent to us unfavorable, and so the motion would be approved.
 that it is unfavorable and that we'll send it to the third reading as unfavorable. Second. Okay. There's been a motion to send Bill 1123 to the full council with an unfavorable recommendation, and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 1123 will be sent to the full council with an unfavorable recommendation. So we're going to move on to Bill 1723. And I believe I could ask for a motion to hear Bill 1723 and 1823 together. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you take the roll, please? Yes.
 Councilmember Watts. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, both of these bills came before the zoning committee this afternoon and come to us with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much. And I see you're here again, Angela. Good evening, Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the city with offices located on the 14th floor of this building. The two petitions in front of you at 751 Cottage and the 600 block of Harrison are for the zoning committee.
 our use variance to allow for urban agriculture in the city of South Bend. We have provisions that allow for large scale plant agricultural in our industrial district or community gardens, which are open to the public. But we do not have something that kind of covers a for profit business that works within our neighborhoods. We would not want to see these properties zoned industrial in the middle of the neighborhood. So the use variance is the appropriate action.
 Both of these will be used. They're they're formerly vacant lots that will be used for food production and growth that is utilized by Sun Choke Farms. They they will allow for production that can be sold within the city.
 This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. There was an overwhelming show of support at the Board of Zoning Appeals with over 60 emails and several in-person people to speak in favor of this. And then we do have a presentation. Do you want me to go ahead and play it? Yeah, I'll introduce myself. So I'm Susan. I live at 824 Lindsay Street. Sorry.
 I'm the owner of Sun Shote Farms and I prepared a short presentation for you it's only like two minutes and I went ahead and while the baby was taking a nap this afternoon some of you have gotten to meet Benedict he's one month old and he's with me and I wasn't sure how he would be for the meeting so if the voiceover on the presentation works I'll let that just go ahead and do it because sometimes as a mom you just never know you take advantage of the quiet times you have um
 So this tells you a little bit about our farm and then also why we're looking for this use variance. Actually, I just realized that that's probably not going to work because the reverb that will come from the fact that I'm also in the meeting. But there's any. OK, unless there's any particular slides you want to share as well. I can go through the slides. All right. So we'll just start.
 skip that and I'll just go through the slides really quick and just say what I was going to say and hopefully it will work just never mind
 Forget about it. Okay, well, so Sunchoke Farms, our urban farm in South Bend, it's a diverse vegetable farm in the near Northwest neighborhood. We serve the community through the Northwest non-for-profit farmers market, Porridge Farm Stands, as well as the West Side City-sponsored Linden Avenue Market, and then also the member owner co-op market at Purple Porch Co-op. And then we also have a harvest membership program, which is our version of community support agriculture.
 Both the farm itself and all the market it serves are located in low income, low access areas, according to the most recent USDA census. So we're really working on serving the population that is most neglected and underserved. As part of the farm's mission to increase food accessibility, we participate in the WIC Farmers Market Program, the Senior Farmers Market Program, and also Double Up Indiana.
 Double Up Indiana allows both EBT and SNAP participants to basically receive a one to one match on fruit and vegetable purchases. And this is significant for us because currently our farm, Sunchoke Farms, is the only farm in St. Joseph County participating in Double Up Indiana. The next closest is the Goshen Farmers Market.
 So despite our service driven mission, we are a for profit business. We contribute to the local economy in many ways. We pay taxes. We currently have three adult employees and several high schoolers are going to be coming on soon for the summer.
 So why I'm requesting this use variance, as Angela said, the farm has basically been operating in an absence of law. I began working with her about a year and a half ago on some zoning ordinances for urban agriculture. However, we've had a great boom in business in South Bend, which I'm sure we're all very thankful for, but it's kept the zoning department really hopping and preventing further work on the new ordinances at this time. This winter, I was given the opportunity to enter into a land use agreement with the city of South Bend.
 been for the lots on Harrison, but the city legal team is requiring that I get this use variance first before I enter into that land use agreement, which would allow me to use that property basically for urban agriculture for a set period of time, and then we'd reevaluate if it was going to be future housing or what would be done at that time.
 Since I need to go through this process anyway for the city-owned property, I'm also requesting the variance for the vacant lot owned by Sunchoke Farms, which is the 751 Cadge Grove. So overall, I look forward to continued collaboration with the zoning department as we update the current zoning laws to really foster a greener and healthier South Bend. And I thank all of you who I've seen at various markets and things for supporting small business and the sustainable agriculture we're cultivating here in the city.
 Thank you so much for the the I'll still call it a presentation throughout the presentation. Thank you so much. And you do have an adorable little baby there. I've seen him earlier in the committee meetings. So at this point, we are going to come back to the council. Does anybody have any questions? Councilman Wax. Thank you. And thank you for the presentation. How long is that land use agreement for the land use agreements for five years? Thank you. Anyone else?
 Okay. But at this point, we're going to go to the public hearing. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in favor of Bill 1723? That's actually 1723 or 1823. There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of 1723 or 1823. Thank you. And is there anyone here wishing to speak in opposition to either bill?
 There's no one from the virtual audience that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of these bills. Okay, thank you so much. Then at this point, I'm going to close the public hearing on Bill 1723 and 1823 and come back to the council members. Although we heard these together, there will have to be two separate motions for passage of each individual bill. So does any council members have any statements? 1723 forward with favorable recommendation. Second.
 1723 has a motion has made in seconded clerk Jones. Could you call the roll? Council member white. I council member Thomas Morgan. I council member Hammond. I vice president Neskoski. I council member Lee. I.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you so much. Bill 1723 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Make a motion to send Bill 1823 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and it's been seconded to send Bill 1823 to the full council with a
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammonds. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you so much, Clerk Jones. Bill 1823 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 We're going to move on to our final bill, I believe, which is bill number 22-23. Clerk Jones, could you please give the bill a second reading?
 22-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, the first north-south alley lying west of Eddy Street, bounded on the south by the north right-of-way line of Quimby Street, and bounded on the north by the south right-of-way line of the first east-west alley lying north of Quimby Street, being approximately 99.99 lineal feet.
 Thank you so much. I do have a committee report that was heard in public works and property vacation, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole is the petitioner here. Thank you so much for coming this evening. If you could give your name and address for the record, please. My name is Terry Lang with the Whiteman office. It's address is 1402 Mishawaka Avenue here in South bend. The petition before you is,
 is a small section of alley that runs north-south. The property owner that has requested this petition come before you owns all four parcels all the way around it and is desiring to close this small stretch. The other adjacent part had been vacated years ago to the north of it.
 it and we are in agreement with the board of public works with regards to closing the curb cut reinstalling the sidewalk for that and in the associated easements to cross the property lines for those to the east of that and the petition before you is in agreement with all of those conditions is there anything else you would like to say nope okay thank you so much i'll come back to our council members does anybody have any questions for the petitioner
 Seeing none, then we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 2223? There's no one from the virtual public that's expressed an interest to speak in favor of Bill 2223. Thank you so much. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? If you could come to the podium, please, and state your name and address for the record. My name is Bruce Gordon. I own, with John Whitmer, the property on 331 South Eddy Street.
 which faces Eddy Street and is located a half a block away from this property. I don't know if anybody on the council knows where this property is on Quimby, which is Western Street. We've owned the property for two years on the corner of Western and 331. It was an insurance office. Now it's a real estate and appraisal office, if you're familiar with that area. The area is a mess. There's been two people killed.
 Over the last, I think, 10 or 12 years in this area, Eddy Street's very heavily trafficked. When they redid Jefferson School, if you would want to spend a half hour when Jefferson School is getting out, you could sit in my parking lot and watch parents with kids in the car do U-turns on Eddy Street all day long.
 It's we had to actually put a barricade up to block our entrance from a to our parking lot because people try to as they're going when they get out of school, they can't. There's a median and they can't go south, so they have to go north and they don't want to go too far. So they just pull you turn or they pull on one of the other side streets.
 And we had to put a barrier up there because I almost got run over by somebody one day with their kids in the car because when they're shooting across day, by the time they hit our parking lot, they're going 20 miles an hour and they can't stop. So if you go to 331 Ida, you'll see there's a barrier there. Cars continually go down Western and stop and look around because.
 It was allowed to have Robert Henry Corporation to block off Western Street. So now there's no way to go from Eddy to Francis Street. So now you can go on Quimby Street. So people that are trying to do these crazy things with their kids in the car and whatever else happens, if they go down Quimby Street and realize, oh, that's too far, I don't want to go down that way, now they at least can pull in an alley and turn around.
 Now they'll have to go if there's I think there's two people that have curb cuts. So they'd have to go into their driveway and turn around, which is not fair to them. Or they have to go to Francis Street. It's it is such a mess. And by closing this alley, it's only going to make it more congested. And Quimby Street is so narrow you can't park two cars on it anyway, as it is.
 So I would really like for this board to take a look at, because I know it came with favorable, and they've hired a surveyor. I understand that. This person is inroads with our city. I understand that too. But for the safety of the people that live in our town, I think you need to take a really hard look at the two people that have been killed on Eddy Street and not going down north or south on Eddy trying to cross Eddy Street.
 And what continued to continues to happen with the people coming out of the school. I mean, I've sat there many times. I have videos of the people and it just it amazes me. There really needs to be a median all the way, probably up to.
 Jefferson, so people can't do this bad behavior. Because people are just dumb. They do what they can. They want to go south, so they come and they do a U-turn. So to me, closing this alley just adds to the congestion, especially, as I said, as small, as narrow as Quimby is already. When you close this, it just adds one other place that people can go.
 So that's my opposition with this. It's not. It's from somebody that's in this area area every day for several hours a day and see what the traffic pattern is. I don't know what's going to happen with Robert Henry Corporation. I heard that they are going that's going to be sold. I can only hope that you open up Western when that happens.
 If you're not going to open up Western Street, it's a real mess down there. So please take the time to drive where we live, and maybe you'll stop somebody else from dying. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. We have Mr. C. Jackson virtually who would like to speak. Mr. Jackson, if you would unmute yourself, please.
 Hi, I'm Mr. Jackson, uh, Conway Jackson, that is. And, uh, unfortunately I'm on vacation. I'm in Florida right now, but I would love to attend in person. Um, I, my family. Can you state, excuse me, can you state your name and your address please? Conway Jackson at 327-329 Eddy street. Uh,
 Quimby is right next to me. The alleyway, I believe that you guys are speaking of, it's one that's the only interest to my –
 alley, I believe, or my property or the property that we own. I'm trying to understand if, is it closing or opening for one? And if so, then I think it would be a problem to open that alley. I guess I'm not understanding what the paperwork I was sent. Thank you so much. We're going to have other...
 someone from the angela is going to address that and if the petitioner would also like to address the question that came from the gentleman that was in opposition if there is no one else here that wishes to speak in opposition then i will give them time to rebut the the two questions
 Again, good evening. Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the city of South Bend. The office is located on the 14th floor. The section of alley in question is, and I'm not sure if the person online can see, but it's where my cursor currently is highlighted. It's the north-south alley on the north side of Quimby. There is no proposal to vacate the east-west alley.
 and there's no proposal to vacate anything south of Quimby. So it's only the small stretch of property that goes from this point to this point, which is completely surrounded by the petitioner's property.
 Okay, totally understand. I have my wife here, Melody Gonzalez also. She had a question, if you don't mind. Yeah, so then that would make our concern against it would be that if they're trying to close off that alley, then everybody as a gentleman who actually owns the property next to us, right?
 And everybody would be trying to come onto our property, trying to make U-turns and turn around when right now they can they normally go through that side that's trying to be closed off.
 As someone who turns on to Quimbley on a daily basis and had students at Jefferson that I had to pick up, I can tell you that the difference, the distance from Eddie to Francis is so short that it never even occurred to me to drive or turn around in the alley. It's actually not safe because then getting back onto Eddie is kind of dangerous. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 Angela kind of sums up exactly what I was going to say for that short stretch. And with the property owner, he's here also that owns property on both sides of that alleyway right there. And he has a few comments also that he'd like to state. With regards to Mr. Gordon's comment, with regards to Quimby Street being narrow, this alleyway is half the width of the street of Quimby.
 and he would like to send even more traffic down a street or an alley that's even half the size of Quimby.
 So the argument that to keep that open because of traffic, you're going to be funneling more cars down an alley that's only half the size of the street. And as Angela had indicated, it's a matter of 400 feet down to Francis Street where they can easily make a turn, go up to Jefferson and turn around, come back on the light the other direction. So and Mr. Emberton would like to speak also.
 You could give us your name and address, please. Brad Emberton, 615 West Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana.
 I heard everything that was said. I think they're important comments and I take public safety very seriously, but I do think there's a misunderstanding. This alley doesn't, the closing of this alley wouldn't cause or prevent any of the negative comments that were previously made. What it really will do is allow the residents of the house to sleep at night. This alley is less than six feet
 When you're driving through there, your car mirrors about four feet from the window. It's like stopping at a stoplight and looking into the neighbor's window. It's incredibly noisy, disruptive, and a privacy concern for anybody who would ever live there or ever has lived in the past.
 And there's a precedent, the one to the west was previously closed. There really just isn't a need. The only people that really need to access the alley have complete and full access from both the east and the west side off Eddy Street or off of Francis. And this wouldn't in any way prevent people from still accessing the back of their property or, in my mind, create any public safety concern. Okay. Thank you so much for your comments. Is there anyone else? Okay. Yes, sir.
 If you would like to come up and approach the podium, please. Yes. I don't know. Could they make another comment? He has another question. So I guess what is not being understood is that what I'm saying is people are going to try to turn around here no matter how small the area is. And if they don't have an alley to turn around in.
 Whether it's the people to the south that are, I think the gentleman's on the phone, or the place to the north, then they may end up going to someone who has a curb cut and going into their house. Just because one person behind me drops her kids off at Jefferson School and never would think of doing that, I have videos of at least 20 people. This happens every single day.
 And it's a dangerous situation and something needs to be done about it. Now, you closing that, is that going to make that whole situation better? No, it's not. But my point is it's going to just add to –
 And already there's already a problem there. If you don't believe me, please sit in my parking lot and see what happens with that area. It's very congested. It gives somebody else a place to turn. They can go through that alley and then come back to Eddy Street. Is it right? Not necessarily. If you're that dumb, you should just drive down to Francis Street. I agree wholeheartedly with that.
 But it's not what's happening. Yeah, there's people who actually don't do U-turns in front of our office. But there's a lot of people that do U-turns. And please check the records to see how many people have died in that area. So is this going to stop all this craziness from happening? No. But I think it's going to add to what's already been happening in that area. Thank you. Thank you. And would you like to have any other comments to rebut, sir?
 the the board of public works that looks at safety in the entire city has reviewed this petition and has sent the petition with these recommendations which we are in agreement with they wouldn't have given us that favorable recommendation if they thought this was going to create an additional safety factor there that was going to be a hindrance thank you thank you is there anybody else wishing to speak I'm still in the public hearing he's in the public course
 Yes. Yes. Yes. You would like to speak against the proposal? Let us speak. OK, if you want to come up to the podium, please, and state your name and address. Mary Bundy, 318 South Francis Street. When I moved here 11 years ago, the narrowness of Quimby was always an issue. And I often wondered why it wasn't made a one way street.
 And I think a lot of the issues that the different sides are talking about might or could be addressed by having Quimby a one-way street. And people would not be attempting to turn around and go back out onto Eddie. So I didn't know who to talk to or how to get that ball rolling.
 But if there's anyone who has any ideas about how to get that started in public works, if they could look into that and do that study to see if that would work. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you so much for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak? That exhausts our virtualists. Okay. Thank you so much. Then at this point, I'm going to close the public hearing on Bill 22-23.
 And we are going to come back to the councils. Do you have any statements, Councilwoman Hamlin? I would like to ask Angela, has a traffic study been done in this area prior to the favorable recommendation?
 So a petition to vacate an alley typically doesn't warrant a traffic study. Eddy is a state highway, and so they control the devices along Eddy. The primary concern of staff and the Board of Public Works was to make sure that there wasn't any future access to Eddy, and this wouldn't cause any future access. That's one of the conditions there.
 It's also beneficial to limit the number. There aren't other curb cuts on Quimby. This is like the primary one. And it's also beneficial to kind of act to kind of direct that as far away from the area as possible and to kind of keep that there. But a traffic study has not been done. OK, my question is because the alley.
 It's directly connected to Quimby, not to Eddie Street. Correct. The portion being vacated is the north-south portion from Quimby to the east-west alley. Correct. So I'm wondering if we could get an assessment as to how the closure of this alley would impact the traffic.
 on Quimby, which is a city road, is it not? The traffic on Quimby is a city road, but it would actually be eliminating additional traffic on Quimby by not allowing people from the alley to access out that direction. They'd be going out Francis Street. And in the written agreement, I think that there could be other concerns in the area. We would just need to know how that might impact the city.
 an already congested situation. So this area is likely to go under a complete study as they use the federal grant to look at removing the clover leaf.
 which is not, they're just investigating potential things. And so this whole area will be studied as part of that. I agree with the gentleman that we really wish Western Avenue, which never was Western Avenue, was actually just a railroad right of way, was never vacated, but we can't undo the ills of the past. But there is definitely connection issues in here. In fact, Perry Street doesn't even have any direct connection to anything here.
 So there are some problems that need to be solved, but I don't know that this will impact that in any way. Councilman Wax? Yeah. And this might be more for public works, but are the alleys, are they designed, or is the intention of the alley specifically for access to the properties about the alley? Or is it part of the idea that they also provide
 I guess, flow through methods. They're intended to serve for access to the properties that abut the alley. If you've driven down an alley in South Bend, there's not many you would go to to cut through because they're not exactly that kind of traffic. They are intended to provide access to the rear of the properties and to allow for increased density. So it's never been an idea that an alley...
 should be another alternative roadway. It's purely if somebody needs access to their house or it used to be garbage or, you know, solid waste. But that was all that it was for. Not that all those have been for is access and service to the lots that about it. Correct. Any other council members?
 Council Member Warner. I have some comments. I think I do agree with both of your points, particularly on Western, that Western needs to be opened up for there. I also agree that a median needs to go down.
 stay row 23 there i know that was part of the discussions uh the city and public works had with uh the state um after the teacher was killed at jefferson school there um the state did make some improvements and uh
 there to the sidewalks and put a flashing crosswalk there across the school, but there's still more that needs to be done. I also agree I drove over there last week and drove through the alley. I was afraid to take my Ford Explorer down the alley. I don't think it would have fit. So I agree it's a it's a pretty small and narrow alley.
 And I think this can be, and anything we do, it's never the end of the discussion or the planning. I think this is that case there. Robert Henry is building a new facility and will be selling that land there. So I think there needs to be continued discussion about traffic in the area and the streets as new development happens in the area. Thank you so much, Councilman Warner. Is there any other council members?
 Okay. Seeing none, then I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 22-23. I make a motion to send 22-23 forward with a favorable recommendation. I second. It's the motion for Bill 22-23 to send to the full council for a favorable recommendation and has been duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Council Member Lee. Nay.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you so much, Clerk Jones. Bill 22-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation, and I would like to now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll?
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. The full council is back in session. This portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clark Jones, will you give Bill 1123 a third reading?
 11-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 1306 and 1330 High Street and 909 East Broadway Street, Councilman and District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilor Niesgowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 11-23? No.
 Yes, 1123 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it was given an unfavorable recommendation to the full council. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1123. Move to reject Bill 1123. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 1123 has been rejected. Clark Jones, will you please give Bill 1723 a third reading?
 seventeen twenty three third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for a property located at seven fifty one cottage grove avenue thank you councillor nisgatsky is there recommendation from the committee of the whole
 Yes, President McBride. 1723 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1723. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Bill 1723 has been adopted. Kirk Jones, will you please give Bill 1823 a third reading?
 1823, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 630 and 632 Harrison Street. Thank you. Councilor Nieskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes, President McBride. Bill 1823 was given a favorable recommendation from the Committee of the Whole to the full council. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1823. Thank you.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 1823 has been adopted.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 2223 a third reading? 2223, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 vacating the following described property. The first north-south alley lying west of Eddy Street, bounded on the south by the north right-of-way line of Quimby Street, and bounded on the north by the south right-of-way line of the first east-west alley lying north of Quimby Street, being approximately 99.99 lineal feet. Thank you. Councilor Nieskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole?
 Yes, there is, President McBride. Bill 2223 was given a favorable recommendation from the Committee of the Whole to the full Council. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2223. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Nay. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill 2223 has been adopted.
 Resolutions. This is the portion of the Council where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk, a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill is referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is given then. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the Council.
 We ask that you please give your name, address, and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes, with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 23-23 a reading?
 23-23, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 521 North William Street, South Bend 46616, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a four-year real property tax abatement.
 Thank you. Presenter, please. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment offices on the 14th floor of this building. Council members, before you for your consideration is a declaratory resolution for four-year real property tax abatement for property located at the southwest corner of West Navarre Street and North Williams Street. The property used to be a funeral home for many years and has been vacant over the last
 few years. It is owned by David A. Newfer, LLC, who is the petitioner and seeking the abatement. Mr. Newfer is the owner of Burton's Laundry and is planning on building a new brand new laundry facility on this property. Burton's Laundry is
 I'm sure you're aware, has been a South Bend establishment for many years since 1976. They currently have 13 stores in South Bend and the surrounding area, and they employ over 50 people at these stores.
 the developer plans to as I mentioned build a brand new Burton's laundry facility this property will have total private investment of about 2.37 million dollars of which 1.6 million are construction costs this also includes um
 over three quarters of a million dollars in equipment for this new laundry facility. This is in the near, excuse me, this is in the near northwest neighborhood and an area that we would really like to incentivize investment in and credit to Mr. Neufer for taking action here and investing in this neighborhood. The Burton's Laundry Facility will provide access to laundry services for residents in this area that currently might not have any
 As I mentioned, it's a four-year retail, excuse me, a four-year real property tax abatement. Since the current property is vacant, the estimated annual taxes are minimal. Over the four-year abatement, you can see on the screen that we anticipate that the total estimated tax liability will be about $175,000.
 OF THAT TOTAL AMOUNT, THE ABATEMENT WOULD ABATE $136,000, AND MR. NEWFER AND BURTON'S LAUNDRY WOULD PAY THE REMAINDER. AFTER THE PROJECT IS COMPLETE, WE ANTICIPATE THAT THE ESTIMATED ANNUAL TAXES WOULD BE $43,000 TO $44,000 PER YEAR. I'VE ALSO PROVIDED ON YOUR SCREEN KIND OF 10-YEAR AND 15-YEAR PROJECTIONS
 for what the property taxes would bring in in revenue based on current tax rates. I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. And Mr. Newfer is here to talk about the project and answer any questions as well. Thank you so much. At this time, I'll open it up to my colleagues. Do you have any questions for either Mr. Glavage or for Mr. Newfer? No questions? At this time, I'll turn it over to the public. Clark Jones?
 There's no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak or ask questions on 23, Resolution 2323. Thank you. With that, I'll turn to counsel for comments, if there are any comments. Seeing none, this portion of the counsel is closed for Bill Resolution 2323. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion. I'd just say thank you for your investment.
 and make a motion to adopt the resolution. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 23-23 has been adopted.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 23-23 a first reading? 23-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 3003 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 23-23 to the BZA for June 5th for public hearing and then to zoning and analyzation committee and public hearing and third reading on June 12th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 24-23 a first reading?
 24-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 1127, 1131, and 1135 West Western Avenue. Thank you. Councilman, District Number 2. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill to the floor.
 24-23 to BZA for public hearing on June 5th, and then to zoning and annexation for the committee and council public hearing and third reading for June 12th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 2523 a first reading.
 2523 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1436 Bowman Councilman Councilman District number three in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion for Bill 2523 being sent to BZA for June 5th, then to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on June 12th. So moved. Second. So we move to second. The roll, please. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wex. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 2623 a first reading.
 2623 first reading on an ordinance of the common council the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 2402 south twickenham drive councilmanic district number five in the city of south bend indiana
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 2623 to BZA for public hearing on June 5th and back to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on June 12th. So, second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Lee? Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 Thank you. Will you please give Bill 2723 a first reading? 2723, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance and seeking a special exception used for property located at 1319, 1323, and 1333 Lincoln Way West and Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 2723. I would like to send it to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. We're moving second in the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 2823 a first reading.
 28-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 735 and 737 Cleveland, Councilmanic District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 28-23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 2923 a first reading?
 29-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 752 Cleveland, 1216 and 1218 Van Buren, Councilman and District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 29-23 to send to ZNA in public hearing in third reading for June 26th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 30-23 a first reading.
 30-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 901 and 905 Blaine Avenue, Councilman District Number 2, the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 30-23 to ZNA for public hearing and a third reading for June 26th. I will make that motion. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give bill 32-23 a first reading. 31. 31-23. Sorry.
 31-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 909 and 911 Sherman Councilman and District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 31-23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. So moved. Second. Then moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give bill 32-23 a first reading?
 32-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 6 and 910 Lawndale, Councilmanic District number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 32-23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. So moved.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. Thank you. Could you please give Bill 33-23 a first reading? No, I need to take the roll. Oh, thank you, Clerk Jones. If you can call the roll, please. Yes. I'm on roll here. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee.
 Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give 33-23 a first reading?
 33-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 816 and 822 Lawndale, Councilmanic District number two in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I was just trying to see what's in the third district. I don't see anything. I would like to entertain a motion to send 33-23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th.
 So moved. Second. So move and second in the roll, please.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right Eli I stand corrected you tell me I got one in the third district thank you. Could you please give bill 34-23 a first reading.
 34-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 744 and 746 Cleveland, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Clerk Jones. I would like to make a motion to send Bill 34-23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. So moved. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 35-23 a first reading?
 35.23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 900 South Franklin, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 35.23 to ZNA for public hearing and third reading for June 26th. Second. So, moving second. The roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 36-23 a first reading?
 3623 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 809 and 813 cleveland councilmanic district number two in the city of south bend indiana thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill 3623 to zna for public hearing the third reading for june 26th so moved second has been moving second and clerk jones the roll please
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Kate Ice. Thank you. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 37-23 a first reading?
 3723 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 12 15 and 12 17 van buren councilmanic district number two in the city of south bend indiana thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill 3723 to zna for public hearing and third reading for june 26th second move and second the roll please
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 3823 a first reading?
 3823 first reading of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1202 south left the act councilmanic district number two in the city of south bend indiana thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill 3823 to zna for public hearing and third reading for june 26. so moved second to be moving second clerk jones the roll please
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. At this time, I'll turn to see if there's any unfinished business. Seeing none, is there any new business?
 Councilor Warner. Yeah, if he's still awake, I'd like to congratulate one of South Bend Police's newest sergeants, Sergeant Gorring. Congratulations. Congratulations. And thank you for your service to our city. Thank you for your service. Is there any other new business? Councilor White. I don't know if it's new business, but maybe announcement. I had the opportunity to visit some of the schools on Friday in the apartment zone. And, you know, we've heard a lot of
 Things about the environment zone, but I can tell you that my experiences this past Friday, they were very, very positive. Students were learning. There was a high level engagement. And the only school that I could not visit on Friday was Comquilin, but excellent.
 One of the principals called me to go to one of those, but I didn't have time to go. I would encourage, you know, other council members who have the time to really, you know, go visit within the Parliament. And I did go all the way out to war and almost got lost. I got myself here. Thank you for that. Any other new business? Seeing none at this time. Well, our new business, our next council committee meeting and council meeting will be on Monday, June 12th.
 So and I will have it's going to be anticipated a long meeting. So we will have dinner served for us for the next meeting on June the 12th.
 Yes, I did have one thing. The West Side Memorial Day Parade is back after being lost for about three years due to the pandemic and then due to lack of volunteers. So this year, with a community effort that was really put into this, the host post is 9820, which is a BFW post.
 is the host post this year. So you can meet at the corner of Ford and Lombardi. The parade starts at 8 a.m. I would get there a little earlier than that, though, because it's a very popular parade, and I expect a lot of people. The weather's going to be gorgeous out, so grab your cooler, grab your lawn chair, grab your kids.
 have a snack and enjoy the parade they have a lot of entries and it's just a very very exciting time for the community and for the west side of south bend this parade is over a hundred years old so it's very exciting thank you at this time i'll turn it over to the person on the floor please give your name and address for the record good evening c custom 4022 kennedy drive um
 three different areas follow-up um i still haven't heard uh gotten information on the abatements um still haven't heard if 10 years and zero dollars was legal i did hear from bianca that she's going to be meeting about the missing financial reports on the website which is wonderful um
 I and someone on the council both got our FOIAs denied on the rape kits I did not ask for names I asked for quantity but it was still denied um I still haven't heard um I'm sorry too can you say who did you ask I miss I'm trying to see who did you say you asked about you and got denied
 I and someone on the council both filed FOIAs for the rate kit quantity, not the names. I understand that, not the names. Both of us were denied. I still haven't heard about the sidewalks on Byron and Springbrook from my district. I was pleased to find out that the city has a GIS person.
 So I suggested that the crime map and the lighting map be overlaid to see where there's like high crime and no lighting because you can overlay maps. I think there should be an overlay on bus routes and key places like work one or the hospital or the clinics or whatever, because for a long time, no buses went to work one, which sucks.
 Anyway, and I also think we could overlay code enforcement maps for hotspots. I'm still doing my research on how to reduce violence in the community. I've come up with over 30 ideas on how to do that. I'm next week. This week, I'm interviewing people over at JJC.
 We're still short over 70 CASAs. We're short guardian ad litems. We're short on foster parents. We need more mentors. Real Services is looking for grandparent mentors. I talked to Better World Books about books for prisons, and Cheryl Ash, I got her the information. So we may be getting books and literacy programs advanced in our prisons.
 We have 500 methadone slots in St. Joe County and a six-month waiting list. So that's kind of the status, but I continue to research, and I've got 30 ideas at this point. I wanted to know, when does the budget season start?
 As your friendly budget enthusiast. Yes, and I just wanted to, I did follow up with you on an email that's dated May the 9th. And in that email, I did indicate to you that there has been zero, as far as I know, zero tax abatements for 10 years.
 uh the indiana state law however does allow for up to a 20-year tax abatement and i sent you the link to where you could find that in the state code okay i sent that to your michiana observer email address and i was copied on that i guess i missed it i'm sorry yeah so i did answer look for it some of the questions that you just brought for before us um and you are correct as far as um
 The rest of the questions that we're going to have to dig into those, some of those are actually county and not related to us at all. And some of those we believe when they went to the dashboard to where you can click and drill down that perhaps some of those reports are now compiled there and you're not looking in the right place.
 So we're going to get the answers to those, but it is going to take a while because you fielded like two pages of questions. And they are working on those. Yeah, that's what she said. Actually, I got another update today, so we are. The first time I looked for the financial reports was under the finance department's folders.
 Right, so they have a dashboard now. And so we'll get that sorted out for you, though, because I think that may be part of what the issue is. But at this point, there were so many out. We're just going to sit down and have a meeting, and we'll go over that with you. Okay, great. As far as the budget meetings, right now we are...
 are right now going through the chamber availability, offsite availability for the meetings. As you know, this chamber is used by many people. So I suspect by the end of this week, at the latest early next week, we'll have all those dates and then those will be disseminated out. Okay. So I could know here within the next week or two because once I get all the dates here, I give them the council. They also get to the finance officer, to the mayor. They all check them over. Then they come back, then they go out to all the department heads
 but we will include them first before we make that public to make sure that those dates work. Yeah, I knew it was coming up soon, and that was my concern of getting those financial reports in place so that I could research for the upcoming season. So thank you very much. You're welcome. Anyone else would like to speak during the privilege of the floor? Please come up, state your name and address for the record. Hello, my name is Julacius Morgan, 717 North St. Louis Boulevard.
 And I would just like to talk about recent rising crime here in South Bend, Indiana. To you, my leaders of South Bend, Indiana. So to my community leaders of South Bend, Indiana, and the residents affected by crime rates here in St. Joseph County, Indiana, I want to offer a message.
 in the face of cynicism it is important to remember that positive change starts with belief determination and collective action it's easy to succumb to skepticism and doubt but true leaders rise above such negativity and choose to inspire others embrace the power within us to make a difference south bend and san joseph county may be grappling with increasing crime rates
 but let us not forget the strength of community and resilience that resides in each and every individual. Together we can overcome these challenges and create safer neighborhoods for ourselves and future generations. So we have to reach out to one another, forge connections, and foster a sense of unity
 engage in open dialogues, listening to one another's concerns, and working together to find innovative solutions. And we need to embrace the power of collaboration, drawing upon the diverse perspectives and talents within our own community of South Bend, Indiana. And remember, change takes time and effort, and it requires unwavering dedication, perseverance, and a shared vision.
 As community leaders, your influence is crucial in guiding this way forward. Inspire others through your actions, your words, and your unwavering belief in the potential for positive transformations.
 So as a collective, let us strive for South Bend and St. Joseph County that thrives on compassion, inclusivity, and safety by fostering a supportive environment, providing opportunities for growth, and prioritizing the well-being of all residents. We can combat cynicism and pave the way for a brighter future. So I believe in the power of unity, hope, and collective action, and together we can create a community that thrives.
 that thrives in inspiring others and leaving a lasting legacy for generations to come. So due to the rising crime rate here in South Bend, what can you as community leaders do legislative-wise to help it and deter it? Thank you. I know that you're asking a question.
 And during this time is purpose of the floor for comments. But however, I would like to get your address and information and would like to set up a meeting with you to have further dialogue and get your input.
 There are various things that the police department are implementing and different things that the council have been working with, whether individually with some organizations or collectively. I would welcome you to speak with any of my colleagues here and would like to have conversation with you and have some of your input, find out where you're from and information of how we can continue to work together. I think that was great information and a statement that was made. It was profound.
 And we definitely have a problem in our city with violence. I like the passion that you have come with in the conversation. And it's definitely something that needs to happen. And I welcome for us to have a conversation. And I open it up to my colleagues to also embrace that if they feel like doing that. But for us to have a conversation, absolutely welcome that. Thank you, Madam President. And my name is Jalacius Morgan, 717 North St. Louis Boulevard of the 4th District. Thank you.
 And if you don't mind me getting your email and phone number, if you can give it to the clerk's office, that would be great. And I can stay after for a few minutes because we're about to adjourn and have a conversation with you. Thank you so much, Madam President. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. With that, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.