Members are there any other concerns questions motions on this? I'm sorry didn't know no I don't have any Questions this is Henry. Okay Procedurally you would need a motion or a second and a roll call vote to pass it motion I
 Ms. Jones, roll call please. Vice President White. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Tejeda. Aye. Council Member McCloskey. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. We will move to privilege the floor. Privilege floor is where individuals who wish to address the common council must state their name and address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes.
 Individuals may address only issues which the city has jurisdiction. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda. Council president may assign topics raised by individuals during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member or request a city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and comment. All topics assigned shall be responded in regular schedule at common council meeting.
 Mr. Graham, would you please go down the order? I will keep time and I'll give a 30 second warning before someone's time is cut off.
 Yes, Mr. President, the first individual that has placed on their name to speak is Arakal Blas. Is Arakal Blas in the meeting? And if they are, please at this time unmute yourself and please state your name and address for the record and begin your remarks. Hello everyone, my name is Arakal Blas. I live at 2513 Erskine Boulevard. I had comments about what happened today at the Tent City
 First, I would like to say I'm just a volunteer, but I am certified. I'm a triple certified health inspector. And what happened today was a show of complete lack and neglect of leadership in the city. Since the amnesty closed during the pandemic, these people had nowhere to go as no places were intaking homeless folks into programs because they were quarantined, ordered by the mayor.
 That left them no place to go and they went to the first tent city. When we were being removed from tent city number one, I contacted the nuisance officer, Keenan Lane. I sat down with him and explained the plan to move to the next lot. I also made sure that Mayor Mueller knew we were going to go across the street.
 I also contacted just the city, and I also contacted just the general police. I let everyone know, if this is not where they can go, please let us know where you would rather them be. Nobody contacted me with any information on where they would rather these people that had nowhere else to go be.
 So the next day we moved across the street to tent city number two. We cleaned and I raked and there wasn't a cigarette butt left in tent city number one. We tried to observe social distancing with the tents. But on this occasion, the city of South Bend would not allow our donated porta potties or hand sanitation stations to be on the property. So these homeless folks had no toilet to use for seven days.
 which is a health hazard in and of itself, even if we were not in a pandemic. I heard a lot of people congratulating the police today, but the police have force, they have weapons, and they have the power of color and government.
 The only people helping the homeless in tent city number one and tent city number two are residents, unpaid volunteers, community members, activists, and church members. We've had not one person from the city visit tent city. We've had nobody from the local health department. And I will tell you that the local, if you do not know,
 The local health department wrote to the city this weekend telling them that was not their recommendation to remove the city because of COVID and to put a toilet. And it also was against CDC recommendations to remove the encampment. And you endangered our community today by spreading the virus to all of our communities. Ms. Bloss, your time's up. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Graham, next person, please.
 Yes, Mr. President. Next on the list is Ms. Rhonda Hughes. Ms. Hughes, if you're here, please unmute yourself at this time, state your name and address for the record, and proceed with your remarks. Thank you. Hello, Rhonda Hughes, 1029 Riverside Drive, South Bend. I am the community advocate at Broadway Christian Parish and work with people who are homeless or semi-homeless four days a week.
 I want to applaud the council for inviting Mayor Mueller and I think the mayor gave a good summary of where the city's been over the past several years with regard to homelessness. I applaud the quick and progressive stance that the mayor took in relation to the isolation center and his use of funds for that from funds that are available nationally and from the state.
 I also applaud the fact that he is not trying to kick this can down the road. Clearly, from the homelessness task force several years ago, there are key recommendations that haven't been fulfilled, and rather than continuing to just
 put this off, he is willing to take some emergency measures, again using funds that are going to be made available, in order to provide for housing for people, as A. Raquel said, is urgently needed for the sake of health and safety for the people involved and for our community.
 I'd like to address some of the comments made by council members. Member Scott said that the timing of the mayor's interest in doing this is horrible, and I would simply say that it's especially horrible timing for people who are unhoused. So frankly, there is a lot of urgency around providing housing. Henry,
 Representative Council Member Davis said that he's concerned about the cost to the city. In fact, the Housing First approach that's been advocated saves communities money. That's one of the reasons why it has been so successful around the country. But I would agree with Council Member Davis and with others who have said as much that the move today –
 was largely unnecessary and appears to have been undertaken with a bit more force than was necessary.
 Again, there's $2 million in CBDG money and emergency solutions grant monies that the city can use for this. I applaud Council Member Hammond for her advocating for a homeless services coordinator and a better plan than simply carrying out.
 then simply clearing people out, clearing people out does not get rid of the problem that exists for the most vulnerable in our community. Also, thank you, Miss Hughes. Your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Mr. Sparks. Next person, please. Yes, Mr. President, is Sarah Nelton here? You are your Sarah. Please unmute yourself this time. Say your name and address for the record and proceed with your remarks. Thank you.
 My name is Sarah Knowlton, 501 East Woodside Street in South Bend. My question is for James Mueller, if that is allowed. I guess I'm wondering, you know, the CDC clearly states that clearing encampments can cause people to disperse throughout the community and break connections with service providers. This increases the potential for...
 A potential for infectious disease is to spread. That's a direct quote. And so I'm wondering why the order goes against the CDC recommendation. And I have linked the source for that in the chat when I asked the question earlier. Thank you. Ms. Nolten, this is directing to the Common Council. We do not answer questions. It's just your time to state what you need to state. We can pass that along to the mayor's office as well. That would be great. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mr. Sparks, next person, please. Yes. Is Rebecca Royce still here? If so, please, Rebecca, this time, please unmute yourself. State your name and address for the record and proceed with your remarks. Thank you. Rebecca Royce, are you here in the chat?
 I guess we'll go to the next one, maybe, Tim, and I'll see if she gets reconnected here. Correct. That's fine. Is Kelly Pickerel in the lobby?
 Hello, yes, Kelly Backell. I'm at 17880 Tanager Lane, South Bend. I work as a client. Kelly, if I may, please, sorry, Graham Sparks here. I think Rebecca Royce may have just gotten in. Rebecca, you'll proceed after Kelly, but please, Kelly, proceed. Sorry for the confusion. Okay, sure. Sure.
 So I work as a client success manager for a company that helps maintain homeless management information systems. I'm also on the board of Northern Indiana Atheists, and my ethical duty as a citizen of South Bend requires me to speak out about the city's response to the homeless. So we know that eviction signs were posted on the city lot on Friday morning, giving the homeless only a few days to find alternative housing.
 During this time, the homeless shelters were closed, they remained full, the weather amnesty shelter had closed down, and the mayor had provided no alternative options. So while you and I were out celebrating Memorial Day and honoring our nation's hero, the city was making plans to confiscate all the tents and belongings of the homeless who were residing on that property.
 The eviction was incredibly cruel, in my opinion, heartless. It was also very unusual for a town to insist that homeless people are violating the law by the mere fact of them not being able to afford housing. It's also extremely shameful and shady that the mayor decided to perform this action this morning ahead of the city council meeting so that nobody from the public could even voice their concerns with evicting the homeless during a pandemic.
 It is not the homeless' fault that our economy is so bad, and it's not their fault that the city has failed to provide enough housing first beds for the chronically homeless.
 This past December, the Supreme Court decided that they would not overturn a ruling in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals that basically ruled it's a violation of a homeless person's basic civil rights to evict them from public property when there are not enough low-barrier shelter beds available to meet the needs of the street homeless. The Ninth Circuit ruled that this type of eviction violates the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, is considered cruel and unusual punishment. Okay.
 Now, I'm aware that the Ninth Circuit does not cover Indiana, but the Supreme Court decision not to hear the case means that they see no reason that the ruling was incorrect.
 By using such cruel and unusual punishment against the homeless here in South Bend, the city has opened itself up to a lawsuit that they would surely lose. The only reason that the city took advantage of the homeless and treated them so cruelly is because the city knows that the homeless have no resources to fight this illegal overreach of the city and the police. The mayor and the city and the South Bend Police Department all owe the homeless a major apology.
 and we need to work to make this right. South Bend must reopen the amnesty shelter until such time that the city establishes the low barrier gateway center for the homeless as was recommended. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Mr. Sparks, next person, please. Yes, going back to Ms. Rebecca Royce. If Rebecca is here, please unmute yourself this time. Please state your name and address for the record and proceed with your remarks. You have three minutes. Thank you. Rebecca Royce, 4991 North 475 East Leesburg, Indiana. I apologize, my internet cut out a few minutes ago. I just wanted to make a statement that
 Not that long ago, in the South Bend Tribune, there was an article stating that the mayor had made an announcement that he would not be breaking up this encampment. I understand that this section is for the council, but I would like the council to at least put pressure and discuss with him why he would come out and say no.
 that he would not break up the encampment and that this would not be something that he would see himself doing in the foreseeable future. And then like a week later, everyone was removed from their their place of residence at the time. I also want to say, too, that it is absolutely despicable and deplorable that these people have nowhere to go. And yet we're forced off the only place that they could find to have shelter there.
 The weather amnesty is owned by the city. I don't understand why we can't be using it for these people. It's a building ready to go. It's already owned by the city. There is no reason that these people can't stay there. And on top of that, during a pandemic especially, as was stated prior by Sarah, the CDC has strongly recommended that nobody break up these kinds of tent cities at this time due to dispersing the virus across the city and across the country.
 um, different areas in the community. So, um, I just, I just want to say that I think it's, you know, putting, making people, uh, calling them a public nuisance, calling human beings a public nuisance is absolutely despicable. They're human beings. They deserve to be given the, uh, dignity and respect that human beings deserve and how they were treated today was not the dignity and respect that human beings deserve. They were treated like, uh, like,
 trash, to be completely honest, and I'm very upset about it. And I think we need to find a place for them to stay permanently, you know, a place that they're not going to get kicked off. And I also want to make a comment that that land that they were on was public property. So I don't understand why they couldn't be there. Okay, thank you. Next name and address, please.
 Yes, Jesse Davis. Mr. Davis, if you're here, please unmute yourself this time. Say your name and address for the record, please. Thank you. Jesse Davis, PO Box 10205, South Bend, Indiana, 46680. So I also want to touch bases on the homeless issue today and what happened. Unfortunately, three people did end up getting arrested.
 Although most of the officers that were there handled themselves very professionally, there was still some, I would call it disrespect to some of the citizens by certain individuals and officers. And it was a show of force that was totally unnecessary. Statements that were made after the fact, you know, some of which were false.
 I don't think should be made by our chief of police in a news conference or whatever you want to call it. There were people that watched the live stream
 When the code enforcement vehicles first started showing up, I approached one of the code enforcement vehicles to try to let them know that, you know, this was not going to be just a simple thing. And the guy literally took off down the alley past me with no regard to safety whatsoever and hit me with the mirror on his vehicle. I had a police officer that told me he would take a report on that. That never happened after everything was all said and done.
 And to treat human beings this way is just unbelievable. Mayor Pete, four years ago, we were at the same stage with the 10th city under the bridge to bring awareness to this problem.
 And it's just sad that we're right back at square one trying to make an awareness. I came into the council, I begged everybody I can talk to, we need to get more services here for mental health issues, number one. We need more services for addiction services.
 And, you know, whoever our leaders are, we need to do whatever we can do to attract those types of services here. Not more bars, not more restaurants. We need those services. That's the only way this problem is going to be solved.
 I know we've hammered the South Bend Council. I'm hoping that we'll go to the Mishawaka Council, the county council, and even downstate. Because this is a problem that everyone should help by funding every year in their budget, not just South Bend. So kudos to South Bend for what they are trying to do. But today was a disgrace for our city. Sir, your time is up. Thank you.
 Yes, this is Mr. Sparks. Who's next? Kerry Clear here. Please, Kerry, if you could unmute yourself at this time, say your name and address and proceed with your remarks. Thank you. Hello, this is Kerry Clear from 3208 South Twickenham Drive, South Bend, Indiana. I was out there today at the location of the removal.
 I thank you all for the opportunity to speak. I wish to commend, actually, the many officers who did, many of whom did an excellent job keeping cool heads and offering helpful hands in the face of angry people at Tent City. Most of the officers acted in an exemplary fashion.
 Both the residents and the advocates were justifiably upset with the way the eviction process occurred, concerning the fact that it was the general feeling that the mayor had endorsed the gathering at the location. Advocates and residents alike feel betrayed by the mayor.
 The police department is bearing the brunt of both the mayor's and maybe to a lesser extent, the council's ineffective leadership in addressing the problem of there being no home for the homeless. I would like to encourage the council to cease kicking the can down the proverbial smart street and get this issue addressed.
 It seems apparent that the mayor, the council, the assistance agencies and faith organizations and advocacy groups are not actively communicating with one another on the subject. Please do better, council. Hold our mayor accountable. Mayor, hold the council accountable. You are elected by the people for the people. And these homeless are some of the constituents that you are elected to be for. Thank you.
 Perhaps the arrogant will fix homelessness mantra that has become a campaign cry over the last few years in South Bend that ignores the complexity of the factors that lead to homelessness and envisions homelessness fixed when those with homes don't have to look at them in time to be replaced with homes.
 We're not going to fix it, but we sure would like to be part of a team of care that spans more than politicians, government employees, and grant-financed care organizations to include faith leaders and advocates so that the effects of homelessness on our most vulnerable population may be lessened. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Sparks, who's next?
 We have Anne Mannix. Anne, if you're here, please unmute yourself this time. State your name and address for the record and proceed with your remarks. Hi, this is Anne Mannix. I don't think the mayor or the council wanted to do what they had to do today, but it was an issue that had to be dealt with. And I've seen in the paper that they're interested in the Salvation Army building, and I think that's a good idea.
 But I would like to encourage anyone connected with us to make sure that there are some services funded because you don't want to just set up this building and have it be uncontrolled. So I'm very much in favor of service funding, and I hope all those involved can find a speedy solution to the problem. I know people are working on it. Thank you.
 My address is 724 West Washington South Bend. Ms. Mannix, thank you very much. Mr. Graham? Yes, we've had... I think there's two more. Yes, Mr. President. We have Shanna Dennis. Shanna, this time, if you could please unmute yourself, state your name and address for the record, and proceed with your remarks. Thank you.
 Hello, I am Shana Dennis of 2211 Oakwood Park Drive here in South Bend, and I had a question comment. There were three people arrested today at the encampment. I am understanding that they are being held without bail. This is confusing to me, given what their charges are. So...
 I would like to see or hear some action or comments on that because it seems a bit extreme, both because of what they've been arrested for and because of COVID. Like we just you just had a big, long discussion over petitioning the governor to release prisoners who are nonviolent because of COVID. You can't do that and then have something like this happen in your own city. Thank you.
 Thank you. And the last person, Mr. Graham Sparks. Yes, Mr. President, we have Meg Edlund. Meg, at this time, if you'd please unmute yourself, state your name and address for the record, and proceed with your remarks. Thanks. Meg Edlund, are you still wishing to speak? Are you in the lobby still? Graham, she just put a message. She's trying to figure out how to unmute herself.
 The three dots, if you hover your cursor over all of our awesome faces, if you click it, it should unmute. Or there's a little microphone, too, that has a slash by it. If you click it, it should unmute. Well, it looks like in the chat it said that is what I was going to say. Okay. Unfortunately, we'll have to move on. All right.
 Ramona, unfortunately, Microsoft Teams app as the moderator, I'm only able to unmute individuals. They have to do that themselves. But, Meg, if you'd like to submit your remarks, she can either email. I can leave my email in the chat box or you can email SPC to the clerk. Okay. Thank you, Graham. With that, we are adjourned. Thank you and good night, everybody.