electronic meeting does caleb mention where he's going to call that meeting together yet i should have asked when i was talking to him uh no he didn't i have a um did he have a monthly update
 there was a moment I'm sorry I'm here small small small small small small small small small small small
 Just been. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm.
 Comments regarding the link and other expectations of the meeting? Yes. Good evening, members of the public. Good evening. Good evening. That's an echo. Thank you, everybody. I have their mic on. Hello? Hello? Good evening. You here? Okay. Good evening, members of the public.
 For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking virtually by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required also for speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and address in the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat.
 During that time, the council president will call on you, and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we will have the invocation by Ken Hardy. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly God, our Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this gathering. We thank you for the city and county in which we reside. We pray that you will visit us.
 And stay with us in this meeting for the leaders of this great city. Bless them, Lord, with spiritual providence and guidance that you will help us to move forward in this city and to live peacefully together. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Thank you. Let us stand, please, for the Pledge of Allegiance. Mark Jones, will you call the roll, please? Council Member Lee? Present.
 Councilmember Warner. Present. Councilmember Wax. Present. Councilmember White. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President Nizgatsky. Present. President McBride. Present. Nine present. Thank you. I would just like to say that if you are here regarding Bill 2323 for zoning 8003 Lincoln Way West, please
 That bill has been tabled till August the 14th. If you are here for bill 2423 for zoning and annexation for Western Avenue, that bill has been tabled to June 26th. And if you are here for bill 2523 for zoning and annexation for 1436 Bowman, that bill has also been tabled to June 26th. Thank you. With that being said, we will have a report from the subcommittee on minutes.
 We've got approval for May 22nd. Correct, Mr. Wax? Yes. Okay. That we send forward. And then we've got some of the past minutes that we also need to bring forward. That would be September 12th, 2022. September 26th, 2022. October 10th, 2022. October 24th, 2022. Okay.
 November 14th, 2022, November 28th, 2022, and December 12th, 2022. And those minutes would be brought forward with no recommendation. Those minutes all comply with the statute. There is no discussion of the dialogue in the minutes. However, they contain the bills and the votes as required. And I would ask for approval for all of those minutes.
 okay so all the minutes you listed 9 12 2022 9 26 20 22 10 10 20 22 10 24 20 22 11 14 20 22 11 28 20 22 12 12 20 22 and 5 22 20 23 are all approved yes okay thank you okay and and therefore we recommend that the same be approved by the council council do you have any questions
 counselor tomas morgan thank you president mcbride um would you just be able to explain for us just what the basic minimum requirements are for the minutes
 I know that we have as a council requested that there be more in the minutes, but confirming that these do comply with the state statute. Just remind the public what those minimum requirements be helpful. Sure the the listed actions and the votes and list of who voted for what? Counselor Davis.
 Well, this is the report of subcommittee on minutes. And so the minutes that we listed from September. I heard all that. Okay. They were not approved. They were, I think we had a draft of them. So they were not approved because they didn't have more detailed information in regard to conversations. However, they were compliant with the,
 the state statute law. Right. So now they're, they're compliant. So they're moving forward with approving it. Oh, so I'm in and I have pictures. Also, we're moving towards approval. They're approving them. You're approving them now along with May 22nd, 2023. Okay, great. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions or comments?
 we need a motion approving yeah we'll need a motion and i will say that council i know we had a discussion in the meeting uh previous about the details that we wanted listed in the minutes but in order to move forward um and they have the minimum requirements is not what uh we had asked for but we will um i think the recommendation is to move forward so they just
 to be clear that the minutes now have more detail as they had before uh the may minutes and uh actually april and may minutes so i'm going back to just counselor it's just the backlog and is just the votes and who voted for what what choice did you have some council hammond yes that we should move on it that's a motion
 I motion that we move forward on approving these minutes. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, roll please. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. At this time, we will have Dr. Lewis from the Empowerment Zone Chief to please come up and give us an update on the Empowerment Zone. And welcome to the podium. And please state your name and address for the record.
 Good evening, Council. Davion Lowe is Chief of the Empowerment Zone. I reside at 300 East LaSalle Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46617. I believe a presentation was provided. And as soon as we get that up and running, I will quickly provide an update.
 Again, good afternoon, Council, members of the public here with us in person as well as virtually. We're going to quickly provide an update on the empowerment zone. Should we go to the next slide, please?
 Okay, so there's often a lot of questions about what is the empowerment zone. So very quickly, the empowerment zone, SPEC, there are a set of public schools located all on the west side. They consist of Coquillan Elementary School, Harrison Elementary School, Warren Elementary School, Wilson Elementary School, as well as Navarre Middle School. As a reminder, in 2019, Indiana Department of Education
 created this empowerment zone as a result of the schools failing over a period of time, and we were granted as an autonomous school district. Next slide, please.
 So again, a lot of individuals get confused, or is it not a lot of information about what it means when I say an autonomous school district. So as you see on this continuum here, there is a traditional school district, such as the corporation, and then to the complete opposite end of that are charter schools. And so we are in the middle and autonomous school districts can occur in three different way. It could be initiated by the school district itself,
 It could be in partnership with the school district, or in our case, it was imposed on the school district by the Indiana Department of Education. And so we are a partner-run autonomous school district. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 Being an autonomous district provides us with more autonomy and flexibility as provided by Indiana Department of Education. And so here are a few examples of how we've used over the last couple of years, but also in particular this year, our flexibility and autonomy to introduce a number of policies and initiatives. So for example, this year,
 We introduced a new code of conduct. We moved our schools to clear backpacks. And I think by now you all know the larger district will move to that in the upcoming school year. We have the ability to have different staffing models, different curricula. We control the length of our school year and school day, so on and so forth. Next slide, please.
 And again, here are a few examples of things we've implemented this year, and we do that in partnership with the district. A part of the theory of change of these
 interventions, so to speak, is that if you have a subset of schools within a district working autonomously, they serve as an incubator that can then positively influence the larger system. And so there are a couple of ways we've done this. The Empowerment Zone was the first to implement, for example, the I-Ready Assessment, which is a nationally norm referenced.
 assessment that you take three times a year before you take the state assessment, the district then implemented that similar assessment. Similarly with the code of conduct and some other initiatives as well. Next slide please.
 So the zone has made a lot of progress. As I'm sure you're probably aware, we are in the first iteration of our MOU. The way the MOU is structured is that the zone ends its first five-year term on June 30th, 2024, after which it automatically renews for five years unless,
 both the Board of Trustees and the Board of Directors of the Empowerment Zone agreed to some sort of a revision to that MOU. And just this year alone, there are a number of things that we have been proud of, including the positive steps we've made in terms of our financial stewardship. This year alone, we cut about $2.3 million from our budget. And for the upcoming year,
 We've cut about $3 million from our budget. For information purposes, our total budget is approximately $37 million each year, and that is based on enrollment. Next slide, please. Again, a lot of our work is grounded in partnership, and so while we operate autonomously, I meet
 weekly with Dr. Cummings, members of my executive team meet with their counterparts on the district side. We share ideas. We talk about what's working, what's not working, and we learn from each other. Both boards have met recently and are meeting again this week. And so we are also appreciative and recognize the
 the feedback that we get from the board of trustees as it helps to inform some of our decision making and strategy. Next slide, please.
 Again, just talking a little bit about zone finances, we recognize that we certainly could continue to do a better job around making sure that the public is aware of our finances as we are a public entity. And so, again, we get our funding based on our enrollment. And so in education, the funding belongs to the child, right? And the money travels with the child.
 And then in addition to that, as a transformation zone, we get additional state and federal dollars because there is recognition that to turn around historically failing schools or challenging schools that additional resources are needed. So being designated as a transformation zone gives us some additional dollars as well.
 About 30, about 97% of our funds are held by the district, and we use the district protocols to disperse and allocate those funds. And then the other 3% are managed by our 501 . Next slide, please. I will note that the 501 receives an annual audit each year. And for the last three years, we've gotten clean audits. And then the 97% of our budget is audited as a part of the district's larger audit.
 So again, school funds follow the student. So for example, if you have a student that's currently at Meisel Elementary School and that student decides to go to Harrison, that fund follows that student to Harrison Elementary School. If that same student decides, the parent decides we're going to go to Penn or Meshawaka, the funds travel with them.
 If the parent decides to take that child to one of the existing charter schools in the city or one of the new ones that will be opening in the fall, the money travels with the child to the charter. One key difference here is that when a child goes to a school in the empowerment zone, that student is still counted as a part of the district's larger enrollment. Right.
 And so what that means is that for things such as federal title dollars, such as Title I, or for the district's larger demographic data, as well as academic data,
 being enrolled in the empowerment zone still goes towards the district versus if that child leaves and go to a charter school, the district loses the child on its roster, loses the funding that comes with the child and loses all the data associated with that child. And so as we know, with the students with the empowerment zone having about 90% of our students that are free and reduced meals, meaning.
 that they fall below or within that kind of poverty bracket, which is higher than the district average, by the way, there are additional funds that they get from both the state and federal Department of Education for being high needs students.
 So in some ways we do serve as a buffer between students leaving South Bend altogether and going to a charter school or another district. Incidentally, when students leave the zone, they don't return to the district for the vast majority of them. They move on to something else. So, you know, that's just some additional context. Next slide, please.
 Again, here is just kind of what I've talked a little bit about before in terms of our funding and what are the sources of that, what are the sources of those funds. So there's a state basic grant, there's a complexity grant, so families that receive SNAP, TANF, families that have students with disabilities, there are additional funds that come with that.
 We get ESSA dollars, Title I dollars, school improvement grant, which is typically given to schools that fall within a transformation zone such as yourself. And then there are other grants that we go after ourself. This school year alone, we have raised about $460,000 of both donations and in-kind services for this year alone. Next slide, please.
 And here is just a visual of how that money flows. And so what I found in the last two months or so is that it's important to talk about how the zone is financed and how the funding works, because there's a lot of misconception. South Bend schools don't cut us a check that we then take to our bank and then we hold the money there.
 That money is allocated to our students, again, based on our pro rata share of enrollment. And 97 percent of those dollars sit in the district. We tell the district how to spend it on our behalf. Next slide, please. We also purchase a number of services back from the district. Incidentally, while we make up 14 percent of the district, our...
 payment to the district in terms of buyback services, it's about 18% of our budget. And we are working with the district to make that more proportional, right? Because, you know, if we make up 14% of the district, it shouldn't be more than 14% of our budget. And so we spend this year about $5.8 million in services that we buy back from the district. We are projecting that will be about $6 million next year. Next slide, please.
 And as I've talked about a little bit before, one of the things that we have to demonstrate is financial sustainability as the state is looking at what's happening in South Bend as it looks statewide in terms of other school turnaround, school intervention processes. On average, we spend about $11,700 per student. Next slide, please.
 So, now that you have hopefully a better understanding of our funds, let's talk a little bit about some of the results that we've gotten in the last couple of years, but in particular this year. So, as you can see here, this school year alone, we have decreased funding.
 the number of office referrals by 22.3%. We have decreased the number of in-school suspensions across all five schools by 58.2% and the number of out-of-school suspensions by 18%. These are important data points in particular because I'm sure we're all aware of the consent decree which we must all abide by. And so we do know that
 Both historically and currently, the vast number of students that are disproportionately disciplined in our schools are Black and Brown students, in particular Black and Brown boys. And so working to decrease office referrals as well as suspension has been very important work this year. Next slide, please.
 We've also improved our attendance. Students can't learn if they're not in school. And certainly since the pandemic, attendance locally, statewide and nationally has been on the decline. And so while we are not back at where we were pre-pandemic, this is our highest attendance percentage since the pandemic. And so more work to be done, but certainly want to share with you the progress that we've been making so far this year. Next slide, please.
 So as I mentioned, the I-Ready assessment is a nationally used normal reference assessment that is more often than not aligned with various state assessments across the country. We can skip ahead to a couple of slides. The first couple of slides just tell you about this I-Ready assessment. Next slide, please. Next one as well.
 So, as a summary, kindergarten to eighth grade students, again, we are elementary through middle school only. Our students grew 3.9 times from fall to spring in reading and 8.6 times in math.
 There are 289 fewer students who are two or more grade levels below in reading and 343 in math. About 48% of our students in reading, 37% in math, have met or exceeded their annual typical growth goal. And those growth goals are generated by the assessment. So after the students take the assessment in the fall, it generates the amount of progress they should make by the end of the year.
 Next slide please. So what you have here is where our students were at the beginning of the year
 I'm sorry, where students ended over the last three years. So you see that at the EOI stands for end of year. So end of year in 2021, 47% of our students were two or more grade levels below in 22. That was 48%. This year it's dropped to 42%. And that's across K through eight. And then in math,
 it's dropped from 46% to 43%. You do see there was an uptake in 2022. Next slide, please.
 And then in terms of students on or above grade level, so we ended 2021 with only 19% of students on or above grade level. That number increases to 24% this year. And then in math in 2021, that was 14%. That number increases to 18% this year. Next slide, please.
 So initially we presented data to the Board of Trustees as is required in ORMOU. We provide an annual state of the zone presentation to the trustees. We did that on May 1st, and that was just data for grades three through eight. We since then gotten the data for kindergarten through second grade. And so when you look at that data right now, again, 42% overall are
 two grade levels or more below in reading and 43% in math. And then we have it there by school as well. Next slide, please. And then in reading, we have 24% on or above grade level and in math, 18%. Next slide, please.
 So we have the data here provided, again, by school. And you see how we've made movement in terms of decreasing the number of students to our more grade levels below at each school for that overall number dropping from 75% to 42%. So again, in September, 75% of all 2200 students were to our more grade levels below, right? We've dropped that to 42%, all right?
 Next slide, please. Here we have it by grade level. You see that at all grade levels, we are reducing the number of students to a more grade levels below.
 On the next slide, you will see it by demographic. Again, very important for the consent decree. So we're seeing progress whether students are Black, White, Hispanic, Latino, whether they are, whether they have limited English language proficiency, whether they have disabilities, and certainly by gender, we're making progress across all demographic subgroups. Next slide.
 We have the same data here in math. So you have it by school and overall. Then on the next set of slides, you see by grade level. Next slide, please. Here again. Then by subgroup. We're making progress in reading and math at all schools, at all grade levels, by all subgroups. Next slide, please.
 What about, so the first set of slides were, we are reducing the number of students two or more grade levels below. So that's an eighth grader right now who's actually at like a fifth grade level, right? We've reduced those number of students. Or that's a fifth grader who's really at a third grade level. What about getting students on or above the grade level that they're supposed to be in? So again, at the beginning of the year, only 8% of students
 in the zone were on or above grade level in reading. So out of about 2,300 students, math is in my area of expertise, but I believe it's about 146 students across the entire zone who are on grade level in reading. We've increased that to 24% in the space of about eight or nine months. Next slide, please.
 And again, you see it here by grade level. We've certainly, where we've had, you know, in both subject areas, our most success were the lower grades. And so, again, you look at kindergarten students in the fall, only 11% of them being on grade level grades.
 Fast forward nine months, that's now 60% of them that are on or above grade level. You see the same thing in first grade. We start the year with only 3% on grade level. That jumps to 30%. Again, progress at all grade levels. Next slide, please. Similarly, with all subgroups, we're also increasing the number of students that are on or above grade level in reading. Next slide, please.
 Same thing in math. At the beginning of the year, only 2% of students are on or above grade level in math. That's about 48 students in the entire zone. Right. That jumps to 18 percent this spring. And again, so for context, I got here in August 1st.
 And this is the data that's provided to me in terms of our beginning of year assessment results just right after Labor Day. So school's in session for about five weeks or so. And I say to the team, we have some work to do. And so, again, not where we want to be, but we've made a lot of progress in one school year.
 Next slide, please. Again, you see here by grade level in math, again, increasing the number of students on or above grade level in math, similarly to reading. And then next slide, you'll see the same data by subgroup. Next slide.
 And so in terms of where we are, as anyone who's kind of in the public domain right now, you know that there's conversations about what, where does the zone go from here? I think earlier in my remarks, I shared that the way the MOU is written, and I suspect intentionally by IDOE, is that the zone automatically renews for another five years unless both boards get together
 and make some sort of a different recommendation. And so the way I think about the zone, the analogy I would use is that IGOE as kind of children and family services came in and said, all right, custodial parents, you guys have been letting down these schools on the West side, we're gonna take these kids away from you and give them to foster care and we're foster care.
 And until such time that custodial parents are ready to kind of get these schools back, we have custody of them. And so that's the discussion right now. Is the district ready to take these schools back? Should we continue for another automatic five years or should we say, no, you know, let's let's maybe just go for three more years and then see where we are and then make an assessment then.
 As a part of figuring out what that decision is, again, coming in August 1st, one of the things I learned was that in 2019, there wasn't necessarily a lot of public input or buy-in. That idea we just came in and dropped the hammer and said, we're doing this and you guys really don't have a choice.
 And so, you know, a lot of families, a lot of community stakeholders didn't have the opportunity to have input. And so we're being a lot more intentional this iteration, engaging the public in terms of what folks think should happen for the next iteration of the empowerment zone. And so right now we are hoping to have that a final decision voted on by the Board of Trustees on June 21st.
 And then our board subsequently would ratify that decision at its June 26 meeting. Now, while it is certainly possible that both boards could vote for different things, again, if that happens, then it just kind of the automatic extension for five years is kind of the fail safe. And again, going back to the analogy.
 of the kind of foster care system. I suspect, although they won't say it definitively, that the MOU was written intentionally that way by the Indiana Department of Education. So that's the timeline right now. We hosted a virtual forum last week. We are engaging with the Common Council today,
 Both boards are meeting again this week, and then the trustees will have on the district side. It's June meeting on the 21st. We will have ours on the 26th. Hopefully we will still hopefully we're still on track towards meeting those deadlines. But if that changes, I will certainly keep the public apprised. And so with that, I'm happy to take any questions or any feedback. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. What a great presentation. A lot of information, but a lot of positive information in that. So thank you so much. I will turn it to my colleagues to see if there are any questions at this time. I will go down. Counselor White.
 Any questions? I would like to just make the statement, and I think I shared this at the last council meeting. I had the opportunity to visit all of the empowerment zones but one, so I would like to thank Dr. Lewis and his staff for really walking me through and the
 and have an opportunity to see a number of schools from different perspectives. I can recall early on when the Empowerment Zone was first
 formed, and some of the council members did visit those schools. And at that time, they were in the initial stages. And so what I was able to experience this last time was totally different. I saw teachers engage. I saw students very excited about learning. And I also experienced
 how that empowerment zone had really changed the environment of the schools, especially one of the schools that we visit early on. So I'm not going to call the name of that school out, but it was just a wonderful, wonderful experience. I left there very encouraged and very excited to see the level of learning that those students and our students, that they were experiencing.
 So I'm very, very proud of the progress. You know, it's a process. It doesn't happen overnight. And as you stated, Dr. Lewis, you came on board August 1, 2022. And we're in, what is it, June? No, June, right? 2023. So great progress. And I really appreciate you and your staff that have put in
 tremendous hours and commitment to ensure that our students who were behind, let's be honest, that they're making progress. So thank you so much.
 Thank you. Yes, and certainly I do want to make sure that we also give acknowledgement to our Board of Directors and our Board President, Mr. Sam Santayas, is here this evening. Our Board members also include Mr. Jeffrey, Mr. Ryan Mathis, Ms. Leslie Wesley, Ms. Rosa Highstand, Mr. Dwayne Wilson, Ms. Sonia Watkins, Ms. Stephanie Ball, etc.
 Ms. Karima Fowler and Ms. Ashley Northern. And all of these board members are volunteers. They show up each month. They provide oversight and governance over these five schools. And Ms. White, it was a pleasure hosting you. We certainly wish that we could have had all the council members visit. Of course, it's summer. So in the fall, I'm happy to have you all come out and visit each of our schools. Thank you, Ms. White. Thank you so much. Any other questions or comments?
 Counselor Lee? What has been the greatest challenge for you guys? I know that we're seeing things moving in a different direction, and I did a lot of work in some of the empowerment zone schools. What has been the greatest challenge, and how did you overcome it? We haven't overcome it yet. We are still in the process of tackling those challenges. When you
 So what I've discovered this year, the heavy lift for me has really been tackling adult mindsets. If you experience failure and dysfunction long enough, then it becomes the norm to you. And so when someone says there is something, there's a different way, you push back. What do you mean? This is all we're used to.
 And so at the beginning of the year, I remember saying, OK, well, we're going to do this quarter to reset. We're going to dismiss early on Thursdays so that we could have weekly professional development for staff.
 And all the research shows that what really makes the difference in terms of teacher impact is not what school they went to, not what credentials they have in terms of certification, but it's really ongoing, differentiated, targeted professional development and support. And in order to do that, you need to have time for it, right? We also have limited funds, so we can't pay teachers to stay for professional development outside of their contracted hours. And everyone said, you know...
 These parents won't go for it. They won't be able to pick up their kids. We also implemented uniforms and clear backpacks. Our families are poor. You're not from here. You have no idea. And it was just reason after reason why we couldn't expect something different and try to do more. And everyone said all the schools are going to lose enrollment and I'm ruining the schools.
 We set an expectation for families. We provided them with the tools and resources. Families showed up and families did as was expected of them. It wasn't always easy, but I met with all families at each of our schools. We had multiple town halls. And while there was initial pushback, our families understood why we were making the decisions we were making. They wish we had done it at the beginning of the year. But again, I got here August 1st.
 Um, and for me, it was just an example of, uh, if you set expectations for folks and provide them with the rationale for expectations and then give them the support to meet those expectations, they'll rise to the occasion. And, uh, while I do recognize that there are lots of socioeconomic challenges in our community, uh, blah, blah, blah.
 That's no excuse for wanting more and wanting better. And there is a difference between, at least in my opinion, supporting individuals versus enabling individuals.
 And I lean on the side of support. And so there's just been example after example. These kids can't learn. What are you talking about? And so it's hard when you have those mindsets. And so my leadership team have suggested that my PhD is really in therapy and psychology because I spend most of my time talking to adults about how our kids can learn.
 or families want more for their kids. And there are some folks who just said, these kids can't learn. And so I spend a lot of time trying to get them to change those mindsets. And if they can't, then I have to suggest that they go elsewhere. And that's not always easy. And, you know, you become a target and all these various things happen. But that's been the biggest challenge. There's a level of apathy.
 and complacency, and our families want more for their kids, and our kids can learn, they are learning, our kids have great big dreams and aspirations, and it's our job to help them get there, and not just kind of say that they can't do it. So that's been the biggest challenge. Thank you. That's what I wanted to hear, and thank you for eloquently articulating that. Thank you, Counselor Hammond. Thank you.
 Dr. Lewis, thank you so much for accepting my invitation to come and speak before the council. I really believe it is critically important for the council to be well informed on the schools and to do everything within our power to assist our students as well as the organization itself to be as functional as possible.
 Just one question. What is the level of turnover in students in the empowerment zone? Do you lose a number of students as you leave the elementary classification and then go toward middle school? What does that look like in terms of enrollment? Yeah.
 Great question. So I'll say in general, our enrollment, despite kind of local trends, our enrollment has either increased or stayed steady at different points in the year. And so when the district loses enrollment, that doesn't necessarily impact us. In fact, many of those students are coming to us as the first alternative before they go elsewhere. I give the example many times that we have students at Wilson Elementary that live all the way up by the mall.
 They would have probably driven by five or six different elementary schools to come all the way to us. So unfortunately, and something that we're working on this year is our data practices. So we don't have hard data that I can share with you at this time, but over revamping our data practices from how we collect data to the types of data that we collect.
 both quantitative and qualitative, uh, is something that the team is working on, um, this year. Um, and, and if I may, I will say, I absolutely agree with you in terms of, uh, the communication and partnership between the school system and, um, the, uh, common council or the city in general. Uh, your school system in any city is the, uh, um, uh, lifeblood of that city. When, uh,
 folks are coming to look at your city to determine whether or not they're going to open a new factory or start a new plant. Their first question is, what is the potential labor force going to be like? And if your graduation rate isn't what it's supposed to be and kids can't read, all of their development folks are going to say, well, this isn't a good city for us to open a new plant or open a new factory. You want to have high end supermarkets.
 property value, all of these things are directly connected to the state of education in that city. And so it is the great equalizer, but it's important that we get it right in terms of the health and longevity of the city as well. And so, again, I hope that this will be an opportunity for us to have really great partnership
 The invitation to come and visit the schools is not just for the sake of pandering. I do hope that you will come out and I do hope we can find opportunities to have good partnership. I see each of you as being guest speakers at some point.
 and presenting at career days. Maybe you need an intern over the summer. I don't know. Maybe you can volunteer. I do want to recognize Councilman Davis, who was a speaker at the Navarre Student Council debate. And he's been out a number of times as well. So it is important that we have that two-way communication. Council Member, Carmen. Thank you. I agree completely. Anyone else?
 Counselor Davis. Yeah, thank you for showing up, Dr. Lewis. I really appreciate what you just said. I think you kind of felt like you stole my thunder when you said that. Does public schools predict what's going to happen with the city later on? But I've been saying that probably since 2008, I've really been on this kick about the city needing to partner with our local public school corporation for that very matter, manner in which you just said it. You said it so perfectly, I'm not even going to try to repeat it.
 but what I will say is that the zone probably should be expanded because you guys are winning. You're doing an awesome job. Um, clearly you have an awesome team and I'm a bit biased about the team as well for obvious reasons, but seriously, I really believe and think that you guys are doing an awesome job. I really appreciate you coming in and getting to work. Uh, what is it? It's been less than a year and you're showing, you know, progress. That's phenomenal. Um,
 Culture just doesn't change that fast in most places. And obviously you've been able to change the culture and turn it into something that we can all be proud of. One thing I would like to ask, and I'm sure you don't know this, but I want to put this out there in the atmosphere, because this is something that I've been coming up against, you know, while I'm out. And the more teachers that I speak with, whether they are.
 empowerment zone or just regular school corporation many of those uh teachers those very teachers um administrators as well they're not even sending their kids to the public school corporation they're sending their children to parochial schools and charter schools that's a problem that's a huge problem we can't even like believe in what we are actually doing and and so
 as I said earlier about the expansion of Parmesan the expansion of the new culture that you're putting it in I think that's something that needs to be really talked about um if people are not feeling comfortable with the organization that they work for so
 So much that they don't even like allow their child to go to that school corporation or whatever that is. You have a serious problem. And I think this is the overall South Bend problem. Not your problem. Right. It's overall South Bend city problem. And so I just wanted to put that out there in the atmosphere because I think that's something. And I'm not saying that they're wrong for doing that.
 Right, that's their children. That's their child, so they're going to do the best that they can for their child. But if that thing still exists in the atmosphere and needs to be talked about intently, it needs to be figured out and how people can feel more comfortable because I work here. I can't actually bring my child here because I work here. I shall automatically feel like I bring my child here, but obviously there's a problem with it. But again, great job, great job, great job and thank you so much for the work that you're doing along with your staff. Thank you. Councilman Davis,
 uh,
 one, let me just say that from my perspective, the zone is a part of the mosaic of the larger South Bend schools. And so we work in concert, not in competition, because it doesn't serve my interest if a subset of students are succeeding, but the other 12,000 are not, right? And so these are all our students, all South Bend schools. And so we have worked
 in partnership personally with Dr. Cummings and again, my executive team with his executive team. So I just want to say that. I will also say prior to coming here, something that I used to do as a certified lead evaluator for Cognia, which previously was at Vans at SACS, so we did all accreditation for K through 16.
 That's the last question I ask when I go into a school to determine whether or not I'm going to recommend them to get accreditation. So everyone says all these wonderful things and they show me lots of pretty data. My last question is, would you send your own child here? And if the answer is no, everything else you've said to me to this point really doesn't mean much.
 And so when I asked that question here, I actually added that question to our staff survey. And it's really the first question that I look at from last recollection. Less than 30 percent of our staff across the zone said that they would send their staff here, send their kids to one of our schools. And after you get past all the excuses, well, I don't have a school age child or I'm a grandparent now. Well, you have a grandchild or you have a nephew. You can send them here.
 My response is, well, if it's not good enough for your own child, why is it good enough for someone else's child? And no one can respond to that. So you're absolutely right. The goal is to have schools where any of us would feel proud sending our own children. Thank you. I did tell Clerk Jones that she could ask a question. So we'll have one more question before we move on. Sure.
 Actually, I am so impressed. As a former board member who was on the board for 19 years and was on the board when the empowerment zone came, I've been through hundreds of presentations, academic presentations, and yours has got to be like...
 the most thorough and most clear presentation that I've heard in regard to what our schools need. And I did send all six of my children through public school and a couple of them have taught at South Bend schools. So you're hiring a few. Yes, L.C.
 I can no longer speak for them as a parent. I used to, but I don't anymore. My question is, because what you said in regard to reducing the office referrals and also in improving the attendance, then quite naturally, that's going to impact.
 the, the percentages that you were presenting. I'm just curious as to what some of the, what can you name, like one or two of the strategies that you did to reduce the office referral? I know you can just tell them not to refer, but. Well, it's not that. It's not that right. Exactly. So that's why I'm asking. Can you just tell, share a strategy that you use to, to prevent the office referrals? Yeah. Again, it's not it's,
 It's not, it's just going back to the basics. It starts with what you expect.
 If teachers aren't showing up every day consistently and kids are seeing different individuals, it's hard to build a classroom culture. So one of the things we did this year from quarter two to quarter three, we saw an 11% increase in teacher attendance, which is also indicative of teachers enjoying their work more. They're not coming to work more often. It starts with simple things just as setting classroom norms. Okay.
 And again, clear expectations. And then once you do that, the rest kind of fall into place when you hear students saying things like, well, school's boring now. There's not as many fights happening. That's what we want to hear. Right. You want to hear that it's boring when you engage parents and you say parents, when we call, we expect you to show up.
 and not just show up when it's a barbecue or a dance or something like that, and they begin to show up. And so, you know, little Davion knows that the principal calls, mom or dad is going to show up. That might not have been the case before, but they will now. And so the parent and the school are working in concert to support the child, not against each other. So it's just basic things
 like that, that begin to shift the culture. And students know that we expect them to show up. We're gonna call, we're gonna show up at your house. We're gonna knock at the door. We're gonna wait for you. We wanna talk to you. We wanna make sure that you come to school. And so if you do all of these things over time, you will then see,
 as is proven over time, that learning will increase. So it's no magic or anything like that. It's just going back to the basics, high expectations. Thank you so much for your time and your presentation. And I look forward to coming to visit again the Zones. I appreciate it. With that, I will now entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So second. Has it been moved and seconded? All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried.
 there we go check one there we go the committee of the hold is now in session this is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing i wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting in addition you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give? We need to accept the substitute bill, second substitute bill for 15-23. Motion to accept the second substitute bill. Second. There's been a motion and second.
 All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion passes. Clerk Jones, would you please give second substitute bill 15-23 a second reading? 15-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property, 1,100 block of Corby Boulevard. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in Public Works and Property Vacation, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. The petition is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Yes, my name is Paul Fair. I work for Holiday Properties with offices located at 3454 Douglas Road in South Bend. I have a brief presentation with the graphic that's on the screen. This is a vacation of right away of the former Corby Boulevard as a result of the realignment of the five corners intersection.
 The property that is outlined in red is property that's adjacent to two lots that have been purchased over the last roughly 15 months by the landowner in anticipation of the development project that you see on the screen, the Five Corners project that you all have heard several times.
 The vacation is being done again in anticipation of a plat of the entire site. It's still made up of multiple lots. It's being replatted into a single lot to accommodate the mixed-use project.
 At that I'll open it for any questions that you may have. Oh, I'm sorry there's one more thing. An item came up at committee regarding an endot issue that was heard a couple of months ago I spoke with our civil engineer between the meetings and I apologize for not being prepared to answer that earlier.
 But my understanding is that the previous legal description had an error in it, and it took in more property than it was supposed to, including some endowed right-of-way. That has been corrected, and the legal that is provided in the substitute bill is the correct one. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any council members that have any questions?
 Not at this time. We'll go to the public hearing portion. Clark Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill second substitute bill 15-23? There's no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of second substitute bill. Excuse me. Yes, there is.
 Oh, okay. You got to raise your hand. Okay. Yeah, I'm on the, this is a virtual, so I'm just, I just signed up trying to figure this out. I own the property at 1148 Corby. My name is Jerry. Excuse me, what is that? Oh, okay. I was going to say state your name and your address for the record, please. Well, I live in Carmel, Indiana, 10843 Western Drive, Carmel, Indiana. I grew up in South Bend. I own the property at 1148 Corby.
 Which is, I guess, right next to where this is going on. I just got this notice in a certified letter. Did you say your name? Yeah, Jerry. First name Jerry, last name Alford. A-L-F-O-R-D. Okay, thank you. Go ahead. So, yeah, well, I own 1148 Corby. And I'm trying to understand how this is. When you say vacate 1100 block of Corby, what are we talking about? My name first off? Yes. Okay.
 Yes, Mr. Alford, this is Paul Fair. I believe we spoke on the phone a few months ago. So this is a vacation of the former right-of-way of Corby. So my assumption and belief is that this is a right-of-way or a vacation of all remaining right-of-way from the former Corby alignment. So it's also a vacation of the right-of-way that's adjacent to your parcel that would be added to your lot is my understanding.
 Okay. Yeah, I'm sorry. I don't remember. I could have, I don't remember the conversation. So our house, it's actually a Corby Street address, but it actually faces Arthur. So right now, the property dead ends right there at a little part of it, right into our lot. So when you say vacate, I'm just trying to, so that means that there won't be any more access there.
 I won't be able to ever access our property from Corby. We'll just have to use, we'll be using Arthur. Is that what you're saying? That's correct. Yes. At this point, there really isn't an access from the former Corby right of way. As you can see in the graphic, it's kind of shown under the site plan. There's two cars that are located really north of the lot adjacent to yours.
 And so that's where the pavement currently ends. So, yes, your access will be off of Arthur, remain off of Arthur or the alleyway that's east-west into Arthur. They're getting rid of Arthur? Okay, so, yeah, I'm just trying to – so if we ever decided to add on to the front of the property as like a second unit, that lot in the front –
 we we won't we could we won't be able to access we won't be like to to put a driveway from corby to that to that area it would have to come from arthur is what you're saying uh for that that's my assumption i don't want to speak for the engineering department but that would be my assumption we'll have angela speak from the engine
 Not from engineering, but you know, the Smithsonian administrator with offices located on the 14th floor of this building, because this property already has frontage on Arnold and access from the alley, an additional curb cut onto Corby would not have been permitted anyway. But there would still be plenty of access that has a significant amount of frontage on Arnold Street. It actually already has a driveway access to Arnold, and then they have access from the alley as well. That's Arthur. Arthur, sorry. Arthur, thank you for the correction. Thank you.
 And you'd still be able to turn from court on to it. So does that answer your question? Yeah, yeah. And I'm just trying to get an idea. So is the property going to come right up to the property line, the proposed property that we're talking about? Essentially, your property line would go up to about a foot behind the back of the sidewalk. So you'd have additional land. So if you continue to develop to the north, it would actually benefit your property in that you would have additional land to count as part of your setback requirements. Okay. And then...
 Access between the two, our house and the new apartment complex. I'm just trying to look at. So the proposed building that's going up, how close is that going to be up to where our property is? That's all I want to know. So I'm having a little hard time reading the dimensions, but it appears so you'd have parking and then a green space and then the building. So it appears that it would be, yeah, probably about...
 somewhere between 50 and 60 feet, right around 55, I believe. Okay, all right, okay, thanks. But Jones, is there anyone else? I'm interested. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I'm interested to speak in opposition as well. At this point, then the public hearing on second substitute bill 15-23 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements or anything?
 i will now entertain a motion regarding sub second substitute bill 15-23 motion to send a second substitute bill 1523 to the full council with the favorable recommendation second all right it's been a motion and and second uh all in favor say aye you have to take real call all right clerk jones please call the world council member warner
 Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right, motion passes. Again, Bill 23-22 has been...
 23 i'm sorry 23-22 has been tabled to august the 14th bill 24-23 has been tabled to june 26 and 25-23 has been also tabled to june 26. clark jones would you please give bill 26-23 a second reading
 26-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2402 South Tickenham Drive, Councilmanic District No. 5 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right. We have a petitioner present. I ask that you state your name and address and share those key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of the county city building.
 The petition before you is for 2402 South Twickenham. This is the fire station that serves the Twickenham area. It was built in the 1950s when the entire neighborhood was built, so it was built to serve this area and the greater surrounding area. Being a building from the 1950s, it's in significant need of upgrade and repair to allow for it to serve a modern fire development team.
 And the petition is to legalize the conversion, so the demolishing of the existing structure and the reconstruction of a new fire station to the potential of a two-bay station to serve the existing fire service area and improve services to the surrounding community.
 The site plan is shown here before you as soon as the computer catches up. There we go. Well, as I mentioned, it has a two-bay layout with access to both Twickingham and York, which is similar to the current access for the property, and meets the appropriate buffer yard between this and the residential area. This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation, and Mr. DeHart is here to speak on behalf of the petitioner as well. Please state your name and address.
 Thank you, Mike Danch from Danch, Hunter and Associates 1643 Commerce Drive here in South Bend representing the city of South Bend as Angela had mentioned this is the new fire station lease the preliminary site plan that you see as had been mentioned in the committee meeting.
 The existing facility will be tore down completely. It's totally out of date. The city obviously is in the process of modernizing every single one of their fire stations. This particular one will be just under 6,000 square feet. It will be a two-story building. Fire department personnel will be at this location.
 As we had mentioned at the committee meeting, we're basically reorganizing the site. We will have a parking area for the firemen off of York Road. There are two houses to the west of this particular site. We are going to basically meet all the buffer standards required.
 The way it has been designed is to keep the building away from those two residential properties. So there will be fencing and landscaping along that entire west side of that property. As Angela had mentioned, there will be the access driveway onto Twickenham and when the fire truck comes back, it'll come back in off of York Road.
 The city is going to probably expend, I'm going to say, excess of $3 million for this particular project to have the new facility up and running. Assuming that council will give us the favorable recommendation and approve this particular one, this could be under construction probably later this summer and probably being used by next year. And if you have any questions for me, I'd be glad to answer them. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner?
 Okay, thank you. All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 26-23?
 I ask that you state your name and address for the record. Sam Senteas, reside at 2740 Miami Street. I run by this fire station location almost daily. My neighbors will recognize me running around the block. I'm really excited about this project and this expansion of the fire station. I also really hope that the look matches the neighborhood. It's a historic neighborhood. So really excited to see this progress and expansion and thank the city for taking on this project. Thank you, sir. Anyone else?
 State your name and address for the record. Jason Kring, 4309 Coral Drive. I also drive by this facility daily, going back and forth to work. I hope you guys will vote favorably in this. Our neighborhood needs the upgraded fire department. I know I personally will feel a lot safer knowing I have a better facility protecting my property. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Is there anyone else? Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition?
 all right at this point the public hearing on bill uh 26-23 is now closed council members are there any yes um i know this isn't a contentious bill but i do want to say that this is uh that's been stated by a lot of people here it's uh the station is a valuable asset to the community um i grew up down the block from it um if they had a uh open house to
 uh, display the future plans to the neighbors. Uh, it was a good showing. I actually spoke with the neighbors next door. I know this, this bill that we're dealing with doesn't deal with, uh, uh, setback portion that has already been approved, but you know, all the neighbors are bored. They see the fire station as not, uh, a service outside service to the community, but actually part of the community and the new plans really put a lot of effort into, um, what they're
 while expanding it and enlarging it really keeping the flavor of the neighborhood and not uh not impacting that aspect and it's really exciting it'll be able to serve the firemen and women um right now the station can only uh house it has very limited sleeping quarters so right now it's been limited only to men uh this expansion will allow uh the department to place a
 women as well into the facility, which is a wonderful upgrade in addition, and also extremely important, and it'll greatly increase the safety with pollutants and exhaust and other things for the firefighters. So this is a really exciting project, and I'm glad that we're going to be putting it forward today. Anyone else? Sure, I just wanted to say I have driven past the station quite a few times and I thought how pathetic
 facility was for our firefighters. They deserve so much more and I'm glad that they're getting it. We need world class facilities to to attract employees who are interested with putting their lives on the line. And if we can't have that reciprocal relationship then we are going to have a hard time recruiting and retaining employees they deserve it. So I am wholeheartedly in favor of this particular bill. Anyone else?
 Motion to send Bill 2623 to the full council with the favorable recommendation. Second. All right. This has been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 26-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. So, second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Ayes have it. Thank you.
 The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you please give Substitute Bill 1523 a third reading?
 1523, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, 1100 block of Corby Boulevard. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 1523? Yes, second substitute Bill 15-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 1523. Thank you.
 to bill 15-23 second has been moving second clerk jones the roll please
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 1523 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 2623 a third reading?
 2623, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for a property located at 2402 South Twickenham Drive, Councilmanic District number 5 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Council, there is that recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 26-23. Yes, President Bryant.
 Bill 26-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 26-23. Move for passage of Bill 26-23. Second. Move and second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 2623 has been adopted.
 Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk, a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill is referred to for advisory review, and recommendation is then given. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. Wes, did you please give your name and address? Yes.
 and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 23-24?
 twenty three twenty four a resolution of the common council of the city of south indiana reinstating reaffirming and amending resolutions number twenty five nineteen ninety seven and forty nine seventeen twenty one
 collectively resolutions to add sites to the established professional sports convention development area namely the new city hall purchased from the south end community school corporation the police station all fire stations the municipal waterworks building
 the wastewater treatment plant and the equipment services building, and to extend the expiration date of the PSCDA first established and then expanded by the resolutions to make other necessary and appropriate changes to the resolutions. Thank you. Presenters, please state your name and address for the record. Kyle Willis, City Controller, County City Building, 12th floor.
 Bill 2324 aligns with Senate Bill 326 that was signed into law back in early May. This bill allows for the expansion of the professional sports convention development tax area here in South Bend. There will be additional properties included in the tax area. Several of these properties are city-owned facilities, such as the new City Hall facility.
 the new city hall building which is the south bank community school core building police and all fire stations the waterworks treatment plant and the waterworks facility downtown uh with this expansion there will be an increased cap of revenues that the city will receive so currently we received two million up to two million dollars of revenue a year it will now be increased to five million uh up to five million a year
 With with the and with those revenues, the first two and a half million of each year will be used for capital improvements. At four winds field, the second two and a half million of those revenues will be used for specific purposes that are under current law, which include all city, any city owned facility that's used for conventions, tourism related events, a museum, public attractions that
 public attractions for national significance or a performing arts revenue venue sorry and also this bill allows for the city to to capture certain sales tax revenues and income tax revenues that would have gone downstate uh otherwise so with those city facilities that i mentioned earlier that included in this area would not be impacted by this new bill
 I don't know if I mentioned with the increase, so we will receive 5 million, up to 5 million a year, plus up to 100 million over the next 20 years as well. So we'll continue to receive this benefit up until June 30th, 2044. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 thank you so much for your presentation great news for our citizens of South Bend another great news for uh the state and allowing us to uh reap the benefits especially with no property taxes uh going up for any of our residents with that I'll turn to my colleagues to see if they have any questions or comments counselor Lee oh don't miss counselor Davis counselor Davis that we do all
 My concern is that when we do get the money, and as we do go through a lot of dollars when it comes to upgrading facility or paying for this bill versus paying for that bill, my question is that when we start taking money out of that fund for those things that were stated,
 um does the uh the administration the mayor perhaps have to come back to the council and explain why they're using that money for that particular use and the reason why i'm asking this question i'm going to give you background
 When we were deciding the idea of a school corporation building being a new city hall, there was absolutely no information that made me feel comfortable with even like saying yes about anything as related to the purchase of that building. We got, we didn't get any, all the information that we received was the information that we got from the school corporation about that particular piece of real estate.
 We got nothing from anyone that we had hired in as a real estate agent for ourselves as it relates to property taxes, to assess values, to the decay of the building, if there is any decay. You understand what I'm saying? We got nothing. And that was on record. And so I'm not explaining something that, you know, I thought about. This is on record. So my question, because of that experience, making sure that those dollars actually go to the resources that we are using.
 Spell it out today.
 kind of like i'm saying i'm lost but could you ask like is that question well i'm just asking you about deciding whether how much of those dollars will go to take care of those things and if it does will the administration yourself included have to come back to the council and explain why this money is being spent and what will be the benefit for it a lot of those facilities and i can go on for a while for this one try to make this as short as possible
 A lot of those facilities are supposed to be able to take care of their own issues or expenses. Century Center, perhaps, right? There's a lot of dollars that go into making sure the Century Center continues on, right? That has a lot to do with the conventions that we bring in and the amount of people that will participate or pay for conventions or the rooms that are in there.
 So what I'm saying is that we're subsidizing certain things that we may not necessarily need to subsidize anymore. That's another conversation. But what I'm saying is that because of those things in my history here,
 I'm asking when the money is going to be reinvested into these facilities, cities, facilities, will there be a conversation that comes in from the mayor or maybe yourself to explain why we're taking money from that particular fund and spending it on that particular building and why?
 we don't get that conversation. We just, you know, well, we need this done and then we'll say yes. And you guys move on. And I think that because the focus is on, we're getting more money, uh, that we don't just squander the opportunity to ensure that the money is going to be invested. And then we're going to get a better, bigger gain at the end of the day. Yeah. I would believe that. Yeah. We would, um, speak with the council to, um,
 Actually, if I can also give some more context to that, looking at the bill and statutorily, and I know that we have Senator Naskowski and also Mr. Nussbaum online who has the historical context.
 But there are specific items by statute that we have to adhere to, and that is to ensure that the money is given to city properties, specifically Century Center with a $2.5 million a year. And then the rest could be allocated to other city-owned facilities. And all of that allocation has to come in front of the council for appropriation if that gives a little bit more context. But I know that they're here also to speak a little bit more on that as well.
 Are there any other questions from the council before I turn it over to the other sponsors of the bill? No questions at this time. I would ask Mr. Newsbaum if you would unmute yourself and state your name and address for the record. Thank you, Madam President. I hope I have unmuted myself.
 and let me know if you can't hear me. My name is Richard Nussbaum. I'm an attorney practicing here in South Bend. My offices are located at 210 South Michigan, suite 500 in downtown South Bend. I have had the privilege in a number of different capacities to be involved with the legislation that's described as the Professional Sports Convention Development Area.
 It started in 1997 when I was the city attorney at that time, and we went downstate, and with the help of our state legislators, in particular Pat Bauer, to get South Bend the opportunity to utilize this particular legislation. The legislation itself in 1997 was pushed by the city of Indianapolis so that they could build a new basketball facility.
 And as a result of a lot of discussion, other cities within the state have been able to utilize this tool. Over the next 20 years, from 1997 till 2017,
 There was probably close to $10 million that was collected. There was a cap of $6.50 per city resident. So that was basically a $650,000 cap during that period of time. Each of those dollars were collected from state income tax and state sales tax from certain facilities that were part of the tax area.
 All of those dollars were appropriated by the city council. So to answer Mr. Davis's question, the statute clearly defines the role of the council. Tonight's role is to increase the tax area. The council will play a very important role with the administration in spending the money that will be collected. In 2021, we increased...
 a cap from basically $650,000 a year to $2 million a year. We found that the monies that were collected were in excess of $2 million, probably closer to $3 million, which we were only allowed to collect $2 million. And so we felt that there was additional capacity for us to go back to the state
 and to ask for an increase. And the increase that the state granted us was $5 million, from $2 million to $5 million per year. Over 20 years, that's where we get the $100 million number that Mr. Willis explained to you. And those dollars also will need to be spent through an appropriation
 by this council. And as President McBride indicated, there are certain limitations on how you can appropriate that money. For instance, there are certain amounts of money that are allocated towards the ballpark. There are also monies that are allocated towards other city facilities as well. And obviously there's gonna have to be conversations with regard to how that all happens.
 I think what the city is engaging in right now as they work with Mr. Berlin and the South Bend Cubs
 is to determine what kind of a bonding we can do with this kind of revenue stream of $5 billion per year over 20 years so that we can take advantage of that revenue stream sooner rather than later. And I'm very excited to hear what the administration and what the council come up with in terms of how that's spent.
 So I think tonight sets the stage for some really exciting things to happen. I have to mention what great support we've gotten from this council, what great support we got from our state legislators. I know that Senator Netskotsky is here. He's a co-sponsor of the bill. I will tell you that Senator Mishler, who is the author of the bill, could not have been more accommodating to us than...
 When I say us, I mean the – I represent the South Bend Cubs and the city with regard to what we thought we would want to do with regard to increasing this tax area and increasing the gap. And listen to us. And frankly, what has been proposed in terms of expanding the area, which involves city facilities –
 Those individuals who are employed by the city, and I think that almost every city employee will be drawn into this because those facilities, that's where most of our, if not all of our city employees will be employed. And those city employees pay state income tax.
 And that state income tax generally goes downstate. And this council and the administration here does not have the opportunity to spend that money. It's spent through the state. Those funds are going to be captured and stay here. The city employee who's paying those taxes won't see any difference. That same amount of money is going to be deducted and withheld from their paychecks, but it will be kept here permanently.
 rather than have the state take care of it. I also want to mention, and I'll be real, I'm wrapping up here. I know my time is limited. The state legislature had three votes, two in the Senate and one in the House. The House sponsors were Representative Maureen Bauer, Representative Pat Bauer's daughter, as well as Representative Jake Teska. And
 they could not have been more helpful as this bill went through. And the vote for those three votes were 180 votes in favor and only 10 votes against. So there was a 95% approval rating, and I would defy anyone to find many other pieces of legislation that have been so supported.
 And today we had a unanimous recommendation from the committee. So that support continues here locally. So hopefully I've been able to perhaps give some historic perspective to this. It's a very, very good day for the city of South Bend. And I look forward to working with this council.
 with the South Bend Cubs and other city department heads as we try to make very good use of what is a tremendous opportunity. Thank you. Thank you so much. Is there any other questions or comments? Councilor Davis? I just wanna clarify what I was saying. I wasn't saying that the $5 million or the extra income, that money that's coming in, the revenue that's coming in was a bad thing.
 I don't think anyone would say that. Right. I think that the people that voted for downstate to say that we should have it, you know, was thinking, you know, what a great thing.
 What I was talking about was the benefit in which how the money will be used and how it can be used here locally to upgrade our facilities to create an economic multiplier effect because we do have more money. And when I was speaking on that, I was actually speaking on behalf of not on behalf of anyone, but at the at the I was speaking directly towards the idea that.
 that there needs to be a lot more conversation. We just can't keep throwing money at problems, right? We never solve things with money. We solve problems with strategy and thoughtful planning, and then we pay for it with money. And that's what I was getting at. That's what I was talking about. Just because there's more money coming in does not mean everything gets better. Sometimes things get worse when you have more money. But again, I thank you for your work, Downstate.
 Senator Naskowski and as well as, you know, Dick, I think it's great and I and I support it. But I want to make sure that this council will be included. We don't we're not included on the plans. They come down and we approve them. And we later on, we just say, hey, well, did it work out or I hope it works out. We don't get the benefit.
 uh of you know saying well I don't think that we should put our money there prior to the bill being filed or maybe a few people do I don't know I've never been a part of those conversations
 So that's why I'm bringing it up. I think it will be healthy that this council, if this council wants to participate in those discussions to ensure the benefit across the board for all concerned parties. That's the only thing that I was bringing up. Thank you. Thank you so much. President McBride, may I briefly respond to Mr. Davis, if I could, please? Sure.
 Representative Davis, we are 100% in agreement with you. My remarks were meant to support what you said, that it is the right thing that there be this conversation. And not only is it the right thing, we have to do it under the law. OK, so your points are well taken. This is a lot of money. And I think there's going to be some very healthy conversations with this council between the administration and the council as well as.
 the baseball team. And the baseball team is important because we wouldn't be eligible for any of this if we didn't have a baseball team in South Bend. So this is, as I said before, this is really a good thing for us. And I'm with you 100 percent, Representative Davis, and I think you'll be happy at the end of the day with how this is done.
 Thank you so much. At this time, I will open it up to the public for any public comments. And you please come up and state your name and address for the record. Good evening, Madam President, esteemed members of the council. I'm State Senator David Nizgatsky, and I recited 4942 Scenic Drive,
 And I'm here speaking, obviously, in favor of this resolution tonight, Resolution 2324. I was very excited to be a co-author with Senator Mishler and Senator Rogers on this bill in the Senate. And along with state representatives, the House sponsors, Maureen Bauer and Jake Teschke. You know, the greatest thing about this is that.
 for one thing uh it's going to add five million dollars up to five million dollars uh addition three million dollars additional money to our community but a cap of five million dollars a year for 20 years to this community just be spent on specific projects
 Two and a half million of those dollars go to South Bend Cubs Stadium off the top, and the rest, I do believe it is going to, you know, I'd imagine administration is going to come forward with how they'd want to do it, and the council is going to react, and they're going to hear the specifics. But the very best part of this whole thing, there's enough things that we talk about that might seem to divide us in these days, but
 I'm going to tell you, being as a state senator and the way I represent, there is a great deal. When it comes to communities or things that really, truly matter, there is a very, very strong bipartisanship of which I have, that's where I direct it every way I try to legislate. And this bill tonight, this resolution you have before you, that is just one piece of the
 good things that do happen when people come together and they do things in a bipartisan way. So Mr. Nussbaum really said it very, very adequately and very, uh,
 very well as far as all the work that went into it. Uh, Andrew Berlin, what the, the things he, the, the, the, uh, the good things he has invested in this community so far, he has stated that he and his family are here to stay. So on the portion of the dollars that go to the South Bend Cubs, those dollars we know are going to be securely invested. And, and, and I think the,
 state allows these things to happen because I think they believe that economic development that takes place in a community is economic development for the state. So this is just good things for us all. So today I highly encourage and I hope that we have a unified voice of support because unity is bipartisanship and it shows that we are all supporting our community for things that we know really matter. Thank you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else
 of this resolution 23-24. Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? There is no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak. Thank you. Is there anyone in the audience would like to speak in opposition of resolution 23-24? At this time, the public portion is now closed. I will turn it back to counsel for any comments.
 Yes, let me ask that. Thank you so much. Is there a committee recommendation for Resolution 23-24? Yes, there is, Madam President. This was heard in public or in personnel and was given a favorable recommendation to the full council.
 Thank you. At this time? I just have a real quick comment. I just really want to, I want to belabor this point. But one thing I want to say is that I wonder, well off would the stadium and the team be if the total amount of money would have been going to the South Bend Cubs rather than being divided up? I'm not asking anybody to answer that question. Thank you.
 At this time, Council, what's your pleasure? I'd like to move 23-24 for adoption. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nesboski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 23-24 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 23-26? But first, I would like to entertain a motion that Resolution 23-26 and 23-27 are read together. So moved. Second. So moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please read Resolution 23-26?
 Oh, I got to give the vote. I'm sorry. All in favor. Can I do it by acclamation to read them both? By acclamation, all in favor, aye. Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you read Resolution 23-26 and 23-27?
 2326, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, modifying and reconfirming the adoption of Declaratory Resolution Number 4921-21, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 520 South Lafayette Boulevard.
 South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year multifamily residential development real property tax abatement.
 2327, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 504 South Lafayette Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for real America development.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, President McBride. Both bills 23-26 and 23-27 were heard in Community Investment Committee this afternoon and come to the council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Welcome, presenter. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Council members, we're very excited to present to you an abatement package for Diamond View Apartments.
 This is a low income tax credit development by a group named Real America Development based out of Indianapolis. You may recall that in 2021 this Council passed a tax abatement for this project. The tax abatement at that time was included in a package of city incentives that Real America used to receive, ultimately receive the
 low income tax credits they were they were awarded these tax credits in january 2023 since the abatement was passed in 2021 and some time has passed we've needed to reconfirm and slightly modify the abatement to make sure that they are able to move forward with their project um diamond view apartments will be fittingly across the street from the
 the baseball stadium within the past year this council has passed a series of abatements targeting this area just on your screen i'd want to just highlight a few of the projects that will be coming online soon as i mentioned um you know this is a an abatement that reconfirms and modifies a 2021 abatement
 On your screen, you'll see highlights in yellow and red. What we're going to do is we're going to reconfirm the 2021 abatement for the red properties. These, where you see in red, Real America will be building a low-income affordable housing building. It will have 60 units.
 dedicated to households earning 30 to 60% of the area median income. Twelve of those units will be dedicated to individuals with disabilities, and Real America has partnered with Logan Community Resources to provide them office space and other areas that Logan will be able to use. Total investment just for the low-income building is about $10 million. Okay.
 where you see the yellow highlights, that is an area that will house a market rate building. Because of some minor changes to the building, what the reconfirming resolution that you're going to do is going to pull out the parcels out of the 2020-2021 abatement that are the parcels in yellow, and we're going to ask that you consider a declaratory resolution for those parcels separate.
 The reason that is for that is that some minor changes to the ownership structure of the of the buildings requires us to do a second second abatement.
 The market rate building, similar in structure in terms of being 60 units, the total investment by Real America for the market rate building is nearly $11 million. The reconfirming resolution for the multifamily low-income housing, as you can see on your screen providing the tax abatement estimates, these are city-owned lots, but if they had been privately owned.
 The areas in red would be bringing in about $1100 a year and tax revenues for the city. After the completion of the project and taking into account that this will be a low income affordable housing building, the expected annual taxes will be about $40,000. The abatement that you're considering,
 this keeps in line with the 2020 2021 abatement in terms of the schedule meaning the percentages in each year the mixed use property which will have
 a market rate building with offices, the land that it currently will, the land that it will sit on currently brings in only about $800 a year. Following that project, we'll be looking at about $70,000 per year in taxes. Representatives of Real America are here to answer any questions that you might have and talk about their project. Thank you. At this time, I will ask the Council if you have any questions at this time.
 Do you have a presentation? Yes, I have a brief overview. Inverpeer Wall, 8250 Dean Road, Indianapolis, Indiana. Thank you, Eric, for going over that. Just another brief overview. This is a mixed income community. Building one is a 60-unit LIHTC building with...
 30 to 60% area median income units and building two is a market rate building with 60 units as well. There will be ground floor offices and amenity space, such as a fitness center as well. The total investment is around $21 million and I'm here to answer any other questions you all may have. Thank you. Council, do you have any questions? With that being said, I'll turn it for public comment. Are there any questions?
 comments from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 2326 or Bill 23-27. Mr. Nussbaum, is your hand up for this project? It is. It is. And I think it's perhaps even a little more ironic that tonight, when we have great news about the professional sports
 in convention development area but we have this project right across the street from the ballpark um you know that whole area is is um really doing well and we we believe the ballpark has had a lot to do with that there's been a lot of other things going on um and the fact that logan is involved in this affordable housing project
 is very exciting for me. I'm on the board of the Logan Center, and I'm very excited for the ball club and Logan to have some additional discussions as to how that space can be utilized by Logan, that perhaps we can have some sort of joint effort. We're in the very early stages of it, and, you know, there's nothing we can really say definitively at this point, but
 So it's these kinds of things that when the city works together and the council and the administration and the very businesses down there, that really wonderful things happening. More affordable housing, you know, filling in empty spaces near the ballpark and helping individuals with special needs as well. So I wholeheartedly support this tax abatement.
 thank you is there anyone else speaking wishing to speak in favor is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of resolution 23-26 or 23-27 at this time the public portion is now closed I will turn back to Council for any additional comments counselor Warner
 yeah i just want to thank real america i know you guys been coming here for uh on this project for about three years now and we're getting towards the end of the uh tunnel of red tape uh which is very exciting i want to thank you for your investment your commitment to the city thank you counselor thomas morgan just want to add very much looking forward to your breaking ground soon thank you counselor lee just want to say uh
 We're very excited about affordable home opportunity, housing that's going to happen with this and just the investment in the area. So thank you all very much for being persistent and staying the course. Thank you. With that, I will turn to council and entertain a motion. Move for adoption of 2326. Second. There's been motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll for 23-26, please.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Kate Eich. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please read the roll for 23-27? Move for adoption 23-27. Second. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded for the adoption of 23-27. The roll, please. Councilmember Wax.
 Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. May I? Thank you. Resolution 23-27 has been adopted. I would like to entertain a motion that Bill Resolution 23-28 and 23-29 are read together. So moved.
 It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Senator? Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Bringing before you two confirming resolutions. Mr. Glavich? Yes, ma'am. I'm ahead of myself in two places. I need to have Clerk Jones read them, but I also need to get the recommendation from the council. Clerk Jones, would you please read resolution 23-28?
 2328, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 3201 West Calvert Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46613, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Verveo North America LLC. Thank you. And also 23-29?
 2329, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 3201 West Calvert Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46613, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year extension.
 real property tax abatement for vervea north america llc thank you is there a committee report for both resolutions yes president mcbride both bills were heard in community investment committee this afternoon and come to the full council with favorable recommendations thank you for your patience mr glavich eric lavish director of growth and opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of this building you are considering two confirming resolutions
 On May 8th, the council approved two declaratory resolutions for Vrbio North America LLC. One of the abatements was a personal property tax abatement worth for five years. The second was a real property tax abatement for property that is currently the South Bend ethanol plant. Vrbio North America had purchased.
 the ethanol plant at the beginning of May and is planning on investing over $230 million into the facility. They will not only be updating current operations in their ethanol production, but they will also be installing significant tanks and other equipment building new buildings that will enable them to start producing renewable natural gas out of the byproduct from the ethanol production.
 You know, the personal property tax, you know, as I said, was a five-year tax abatement. You know, these are just estimates, but we're looking at significant increases in the city's tax rolls from Verbio's investments. As I scroll through my slides, the real property tax.
 that real property taxes on are currently about $150,000 for the property. After completion of this project, we anticipate a $300,000 increase in annual taxes. Significant investment for the city,
 Verbio will be retaining the 61 current jobs at the property and anticipate hiring, you know, at least eight new full-time employees, making roughly about $100,000 each. The president and CEO of Verbio is here to talk about the project and answer any questions that you might have.
 Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Greg Northrup. I'm president and CEO of Bio North America Holding Corporation. I live in Grand Rapids, Michigan. I'm happy to be in South Bend today to talk to you about this project. It's a pleasure to be back here following the presentation I made on May 8th to talk about the bio refinery that we will be developing at this site today.
 I'm happy to say we're investing $230 million in this investment, and I appreciate the support that the city is going to give us to make sure that this is a successful financial investment that we make.
 We're going to continue making 85 million gallons of ethanol from the production process, but then we will take the stillage, which is the waste stream from the ethanol production, and it's typically used as dried distillers grain for feed for cattle. Instead of doing that, we will use the stillage to make renewable natural gas. We will do that through the use of anaerobic digestion tanks. Each tank is 2.8 million gallons
 They are substantial in size. We will produce 2.8 BCF billion cubic feet of gas a year as a result of this production process.
 and in essence we will enhance the viability of the plant from where it is today i'd i would tell you had but for our investment this plant probably wouldn't be operating in a couple years and this is a critical investment we're happy to retain the employees i'm most happy that since we purchased the facility at the first of may the transition and the response of our new employees has just been wonderful
 I can't imagine having gone through a transition through this kind of purchase process in my life that's been going so smoothly. So I say that cross-figured because typically that's not the case. But we've had a great support from the local community and the employees. We will retain 61 employees that are the current workforce. Those employees were working for a third-party contractor. They will become Burbide employees, so full-time employees of our corporation.
 we will add eight new professional positions as eric mentioned making over a hundred thousand dollars a year these are engineers or other types of professionals that are critical to the success in our performance and i think with that uh i'll pause i do have a presentation if you want to see what the plant looks like those kinds of things we can do that but we spent quite a bit of time the last time i was here and and i think we had a lot of good questions and q a at that point in time but i'm happy to answer any questions that you have
 Thank you so much. At this time, I'll turn to counsel to see if there are any questions. Counselor Tomas Morgan. Actually, President McBride, I just want a clarification of the title of the bill. Bill, I believe, may have been misread. Bill 2328 should read a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend.
 commonly known as 3201 west calvert street yes it's a confirm um so it was read as designating certain area uh is that it says confirm it is confirming confirming i just want to confirm that this really is a confirming bill that it was read correctly
 It is a confirming, but I think that that is a typographical error because I think the body of it says confirming resolution, but we can I can defer to clerk Jones or a parliamentarian, but it does say confirmed in the in the bill. It does. Yes. Does it need to be reread? Just need to make a motion and correct the screeners there. All right. I'd like to make a motion to correct the scrivener's error, please. Second. Second.
 then moving second all in favor any opposition the motion carries with that is there any other questions counselor hammond thank you um
 A couple questions, Mr. Northrup. This is just a comment in your fact sheet. You state that all of your projects are self-funded with no public financing, and I think that many people would believe that tax abatements are a form of public financing, but I'm not going to argue with that. Another couple points are under the public benefit items form.
 under construction related contractors, where it asks you if you will employ local companies for your construction builds, you say no. Purchase materials from local companies, you say no. And then require prevailing wage for those construction workers, and you also say no.
 And I believe that we are lacking significantly in public benefit. I will not be able to support this abatement. Thank you. I appreciate your comments if I could respond. But for the completion of the total financing, I can't make a comment about where we will be purchasing materials or what types of labor we will be using. It's in our vested interest to use local companies.
 to do so otherwise doesn't make sense. But at the same time, I'm committed to making sure we build the best operating plant that we can. That's the responsibility that we have, not only to our shareholders, but to the public in general. And so it's in our interest to use local companies to the extent they have the skill sets and the capabilities to build a plant that meets the kinds of qualifications that we have to operate safely.
 Any other questions, Councilor Niesgatsky? Yes, and I believe if I recall the last presentation, aren't those tanks, specialty design tanks by engineers that you have staff on your staff that come in and actually install those? Yeah, I mean much of what we do at Burbio is proprietary.
 And so we've developed a technology that we use for our purposes, for our production processes. That includes upgrading the gas from methane to natural gas quality. That includes the design and operations of the tanks that are critical to the overall performance of the facility. Thank you. Councilor Lee. We had had this discussion at the last hearing
 in May and he just he did disclose all of those things and the reasons why it was written that way in the contract so we would all have a full understanding of it so we've had this discussion already and it's because of some of the things are very special and specific to what they have to do but again the interest is to to utilize local people and buy things locally that you can but
 I think it was in the country if he would have said it that way it would have locked him into that so that's that's why they had to answer those questions the way they did correct and I I until the financing is complete I can't make any commitments to anybody about
 who will be selected for the work that we will be doing. I'd be irresponsible on my behalf to even think about doing that. So this is part of a total package that has to be put together to allow us to go forward with the construction as proposed. And I look forward to working with local contractors here in South Bend and in Indiana as part of our thought process to do so. Otherwise, wouldn't make any sense. Thank you. With that being said, I'll turn it over. Or did I do public already?
 For the public hearing portion, is there anyone in the audience wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 23-28 or 23-29 or online? No one online expressed an interest to speak in favor of either of these bills. Thank you. Is there anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 23-28 or 23-29?
 If you are, please come up and approach the podium and state your name and address for the record. Hi, I'm Leslinda Wilson, 19788 Southland Avenue. I just have a question. So why are we giving tax credit or forgiving taxes to a company that is not willing to on paper say they will support the residents by hiring in or buying in? Like, why are we?
 Sorry, my heart is racing. No, you take it down. I'm not mad or anything. We're giving tax credit to companies to build on in South Bend, and some of them don't even live in South Bend. So you can't even say they pay gas or they buy potato chips at the gas station or buy at Walmart in South Bend, but they have their businesses here.
 But they're not even on paper willing to say they will first look to hire from South Bend if they can't find quality people at South Bend, then look elsewhere. Why are we why is this even an option if they're not even willing to give the people of South Bend an opportunity?
 Thank you for your question. And I definitely don't want to speak for them, but I believe that that was stated with a $230 million investment for the ethanol plant, which is a specialty company coming in. I believe that he did state that they would hope that that would be the commitment, but there's specialty trades that just a regular, and I'm saying me as a regular.
 person will not be able to have that specialty to install gases. But I will let him expound on that a little bit further. But thank you for your question. And I'd like to follow up on those kinds of concerns. This is a sophisticated industry. It's like operating a refinery, to put it in the context for you, in terms of manufacturing production of ethanol. And the same thing with the manufacturing production of renewable natural gas.
 These are critical energy components for our country and our state and our local communities, but you have to do it properly. And you don't do that by not finding the best people, the best quality materials to make sure these things are successful.
 And so our commitment is to operate a very successful plant. We will hire people from the local area. We will retain employees, as I already indicated, and we will add new employees. And hopefully those employees will come from South Bend because they have the skill sets that are critical. I listened to the gentleman speaking earlier today about the importance of education and companies that make decisions to come to locations based on the capabilities and skill sets of the people of the workforce that live in those communities.
 And I can tell you that if you can't do that, then companies will decide to leave or go elsewhere because there's always choices. I'm here because we have a really good workforce currently at this plant. We did a lot of due diligence to make sure that they were able to operate the plant in a way that makes us believe we can be successful. We will improve this facility substantially.
 We're not spending money just for the hell of it. This is a project at $230 billion that represents a significant investment. And I can assure you that our shareholders have high expectations of me and the rest of our team. And we have high expectations of the support that we're getting from South Bend. And I'm happy to be here because of that support. But this is an important project, and we expect to do well. Thank you.
 Any other comments, Mr. Glavage? I just want to touch upon one, make one comment because I kind of glossed over everything since we've gone through the presentation on previous times, but this project has many elements to it. Construction, concrete, fencing, landscaping. There's an entire variety of contracts that will be issued due to this. And as we walk through with petitioners that are interested in abatements,
 you know, I think Council Member Lee kind of hit the nail on the head. You know, you know we don't want,
 false information to be included on the petitions, for example. You know, we wouldn't want a company to denote that they will hire, you know, that they'll commit to hiring local contractors if by chance they don't. We don't want them to make commitments that they're not going to be able to hold to. And the reason that those questions are on there is there's a point system that the city's code
 spells out that the more yeses they answer on the abatement petition, the longer their abatement could be. So there is an incentive for someone that might want to be untruthful on the petition and answer yes, but we we want to make sure that the information that you're considering is is factual.
 and a no on a petition doesn't mean that they're not going to hire a local contractor it just means that we don't want them to make a statement that you know in the end might not be 100 true so thank you thank you for that any other questions counselor hammond none of this addresses the prevailing wage question that would be whether they're south end residents or
 you know, come from Mars, are we going to pay a prevailing wage? Yes or no? And this says no. Counselor Nitzagoski. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify when we talk about the someone coming in investing $231 million into a plant that more than likely if it's not invested to in the next few years, we have a owner that wanted to basically get out of the business. It sounds like without this investment, it would be a closed plant.
 If it had not been refurbished in this manner. The other thing I want to point out is the salaries. $100,000 for the salaries across the board, I believe, is what the presentation was in previously that we had a month or so ago.
 And that's a regular payroll. What was happening before is it was actually a type of employee misclassification because they were all paying their own taxes by being independent contractors or their own contractors, every employee there.
 So what they're doing, what Rubio is doing, is coming in and setting that ship right. So I appreciate that they're going to actually have taxes taken out. They're going to get a W-2 or a W-9 or whatever it is at the end of the day, but that's based on $100,000 salary. And that means that they're not short-cutting the state either, because that's exactly what employee misclassification is.
 So I, for one, am excited about the investment. I'm excited that we're going to see a new energy be produced out of this plant. And if I'm not incorrect, how many of these are in the United States that actually do the...
 the ethanol and I think there's what only two? This will be the second one. We do this currently at our facility in Nevada, Iowa. They do this currently at two other facilities that have been operating for over 10 years in Germany. This is proven technology. We're just bringing that technology to the US to take advantage of what we've learned over the course of the last 10 years. That gas, the byproduct from the ethanol that's produced goes and will be directly piped into the system.
 Once the molecular structure of that is converted in a way that I guess those takes it up. That's a little technical for me, but I just find it to be an exciting investment. And I believe that you'll keep your commitment and hire as many local people as possible. Thank you, Councilor Thomas Morgan.
 Yes, I too just want to point out, you know, and again, this is a $230 million investment by Verbio and we'll be seeking a...
 A tax credit as authorized by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, and if approved, there are requirements of that that they would qualify and pay prevailing wage rates, and 15% of the workforce would include apprenticeships.
 So should that tax credit come through, that's a really exciting prospect. This is exciting for the city of South Bend to land. Rubeo is only second in the nation and fourth globally. But that South Bend has Indiana's first biorefinery. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 At this time, the public portion is now closed. I will turn it back to council for entertaining a motion, please. For adoption of 23-28. Second. It's been moved and seconded for the adoption of 23-28. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Resolution 23-28 has been adopted. Move for adoption of 23-29. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones to roll please for 23-29. Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Excuse me. Nay.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Resolution 23-29 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give resolution 23-30 a reading?
 2330, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 521 Black Williams Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a four-year real property tax abatement for David A. Neufer, LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. Bill 23, Resolution 23-30 was heard in Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 Eric Lovitz, Director of Growth and Opportunity. Office is on the 14th floor of this building. Before you, for your consideration, is a confirming resolution for a four-year real property tax abatement for David A. Newfer LLC, better known as Burton's Laundry. Mr. Newfer plans to build a brand new Burton's Laundry facility in the near northwest neighborhood at the corner of Williams Street and Navarre. It's currently a vacant lot, as you can see on the screen. Thank you.
 As I mentioned, it's a four-year tax abatement that you're considering. The facility would be about 6,300 square feet, and Mr. Neufer's total private investment is around $2.4 million. I'd like to point out that he did not qualify for a personal property tax abatement, but we bring before you this real property tax abatement.
 Currently, since it's a vacant lot, the property taxes are minimal, $160 a year. Following completion of the project, we anticipate the annual taxes to be about $43,000. On your screen, you can see our estimates for tax abatements. Over the four-year abatement period, we anticipate the taxes abated to be about $136,000, with taxes paid nearing $40,000.
 But following the completion of the abatement, you know, taxes paid will be the full $43,000 as we have estimated. Mr. Newfer is here to answer any questions you might have and talk about his project. David Newfer, 2409 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, the third district of the city of South Bend.
 Just thank the Council for the consideration of this abatement, and I'd like to thank Eric, as I did in the meeting earlier, for his hard work on getting us to this point. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, I'll turn to my colleagues to see if there are any questions or comments. With that being said, I'll open it up to the public. Are there anyone in the audience or online would like to speak in favor of Resolution 23-30?
 Thank you. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 23-30? There's no one from the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in opposition of you. Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. Back to Council. Councilor Warner. Yeah, I just want to thank you for your not only your investment in this project, but you do a lot of great work in the city and really across the county. And thank you for all that. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Any other council, Councillor Lee? Just want to say that we're very excited about this new Burton's Laundry being built in the first district. Mr. Newford has done a lot of great work giving back to the community, Wash Wednesdays and with the homeless and all of these wonderful opportunities to give back to the community. So thank you for developing and building a new Burton's Laundry in the first district. Thank you.
 no other comments council what's your pleasure i'd like to move that we i'd like to move resolution 2330 for adoption second the move in second from jones the role please
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Niesboski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 23-30 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 23-31.
 2331, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 5448 Dillon Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46628, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for GLC Portage Prairie LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 yes president bride uh 23-31 was heard in community investment committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation thank you
 Eric Lovitz, Director of Growth and Opportunity, offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you for your consideration is a declaratory resolution for GLC Portage Prairie LLC. Portage Prairie LLC is the taxpayer of this property on paper, but AM General is the functional taxpayer. AM General leases the space that you see on your screen and pays all property taxes.
 aim general um had received has received a new contract in the us army on the joint light tactical vehicle um contract uh you might probably have read about it in the news um not only are they expanding their manufacturing capability area but they also need to expand their facility in south bend up to the far northwest side um what they're looking to do is 167 000 square foot expansion um total investment for this expansion is about 12 million dollars
 With the expansion, AM General plans to hire about 15 new full-time employees and retain the current staff that currently works out of this facility. The total investment, as I mentioned, is $12 million, and they qualify for a nine-year tax abatement.
 The current taxes on the property, which again are paid by AM General, are about $270,000 per year. We estimate that after the expansion and the site is activated, that we'll be looking at annual taxes in the range of $600,000 a year. I pointed this out at the committee meetings earlier. There is currently a tax abatement for this property, for the existing property.
 It has two years left on it, and we have estimated that in those two years will be about $60,000 in tax savings. However, this tax abatement that you're considering now is important to be able to allow AM General to expand the current facility in order to meet the requirements of their contract. We do have representatives from both GLC, Portage Prairie, and AM General here to answer any questions that you might have.
 Thank you. I'll turn to my colleagues to see if you have any questions at this time. Good afternoon. My name is Isaac Hall, and I'm representing Great Lakes Capital, located at 7410 Aspect Drive in Granger, Indiana. I'd like to start off by thanking Eric for his summary of our project here to expand the current AM General facility. We have been waiting for this day for a very long time. AM General has been a tenant in the current space for about seven years.
 And we have purposefully left this space on the property vacant, ready to expand the current facility. So we are excited for their new contracts for the JLTV. This is just a continued investment by Great Lakes Capital into the northwest side of town.
 And again, the benefit of this tax abatement on the expansion does directly benefit AM General in their bottom line. I'm happy to answer any questions about the property and have Keith Benham and Chuck Tabaki from AM General here to answer any questions from the AM General side. Thank you so much, counsel, if you have any questions.
 At this time, I will open it up to the public to see if there's anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 23-31. There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 23-31. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of 23-31? There's no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. The public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel for final comments.
 With that being said, what's your pleasure? Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Iskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 23-31 has been adopted. I would like to entertain a motion to have resolution 2332 and 2333 read together. So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give resolution 23-32 a reading?
 2332, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 516 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a two-year vacant building tax abatement for historic properties LLC.
 Thank you. And would you also read Bill 23-33? 23-33, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 516 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a six-year real property tax abatement for Historic Properties LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, President McBride, both bills were heard in community investments this afternoon and come to the full Council with favorable recommendations. Thank you. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor of this building. Very excited to bring before you your for your consideration two declaratory resolutions for a local developer focused on, you know, supporting the Monroe Park neighborhood.
 Abatements are for the Monarch building, which is at 516 South Michigan Street. You've probably driven by it a hundred times. It's a historic landmark built in the 20s. The owner is Historic Developed Properties LLC. And through their development arm,
 we'll be investing about $570,000 to rehab this building. It's been vacant for a long time, well over a decade. And what you're considering here are two abatements. The first is a vacant building abatement, which will abate the current taxes on the property. They're not,
 you know, a significantly high amount of taxes, but what it does is unlocks a little bit of money for the developer to be able to proceed with the renovation. The second abatement that you're considering is a six year mixed use retail, excuse me, real property tax abatement.
 the developer plans to renovate the building in two phases first phase would be updating and rehabbing the commercial space on the first floor and converting the upstairs to six residential apartments
 Before you on the screen is the tax summary for the abatement. Current taxes are only about $1,400 a year. As we look ahead following the renovation, we would anticipate taxes to be brought in to be in excess of $14,000, but the dollar amount doesn't matter.
 can't quantify you know the the impact that this building will have on the neighborhood it really will you know we used the term before the leading edge of development this really will be the leading edge of development we're very excited the developers are here rachel and charity would love to talk about the project and answer any questions that you might have thank you please state your name and address for the record
 Rachel Mosspan, 15555 Hunting Ridge Trail, Granger, Indiana. Charity Stowe, 614 South St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you.
 Thank you for having us today. We're really excited to present this project to you and are asking for your favorable support for this tax abatement. This building has been vacant, as Eric said, for over a decade and was most recently on the demolition list before we purchased the property.
 So we're just really excited. Our development company is focused on keeping affordability in both residential and commercial spaces in downtown South Bend. And so this is just one of our first mixed-use projects that we're able to kind of apply this vision to. We have 11 residential units that we're doing affordably in the neighborhood as well.
 So this is just going to add to that. And we're really excited about this project and just bringing life to a historic building on this main corridor. So thanks for considering. Thank you. Council, do you have any questions? Councillor Lee. I keep saying Lee. I'm sorry. Councillor Davis. Hey, we located downtown Monroe Park area has a very strong neighborhood organization that we talk to them.
 Yes, I'm very involved in the neighborhood association. I live in the neighborhood and yeah, definitely involved. So everyone said what?
 Um, so it's mostly just been in like individual conversations because we don't have full plans of what this is going to be in the commercial space. It's we're not really pitching anything for a business to go in yet. We really want the neighborhood to contribute to and decide kind of what needs to go in here. So we haven't presented the project yet.
 formally to the neighborhood association, but folks are just excited about more affordable units in the neighborhood. I am too. I'm absolutely excited about it. But there's one thing because I was just interviewed by WNDU coming inside before we started this meeting. The question was homelessness. That particular spot where you're at literally is a bed for many residents that are here in South Bend, homeless residents.
 Has there been any discussion with the city on how that looks further on down the line after apartments come online?
 So we are constantly having conversations about this, as many of you probably know, just driving by the building. There's constantly encampments set up on the side of the building. And we've been, you know, I've lived in the neighborhood for three years and seen this throughout the neighborhood and just been active in conversations of how we solve the problem instead of just push it to the next neighborhood. So I can't say that there's a definitive answer.
 plan in place for the encampments until the affordable units are online. And as we've heard tonight, there's multiple affordable housing developments coming, but those take years. So, I think it's still to be determined of what the immediate solution is as we're developing the building. But we definitely are, I mean, we have relationships with a lot of the folks that are on the streets and just are doing what we can and trying to talk to folks.
 to support a solution until there are enough affordable units for folks to stay. So one great thing, this is not a question, I'll make a statement. The city just hired in a gentleman who is a pastor for Broadway Christian Parish.
 His name is evading me right now. Carl. Carl, thank you. And so I think maybe your ideas about what should occur will probably go a long way since you're more invested into the area. You're not coming in from the outside. I will value it. So if you want to pull me to the side or email me or whatever and say, hey, Councilman Davis, check this out. And so I think it will be valuable. Caleb is sitting there as well. No one has been able to solve homelessness problems.
 because there's so many issues that create it. But one thing that we can be is very, very intentional about our efforts and very sensitive to what's happening as well at the same time. But great idea. Great job. You get my support. Thank you. Anyone else? Counselor Hammond. Thank you. First question would be, do you manage your own properties? And this is a multi-unit and it's different than your homes, I would guess. So
 Again, will you be managing this on your own? Yes, we will. Okay. And just a comment based off of what Councilman Davis said at the end of April, I did petition to have weather amnesty continued.
 for the express purpose of giving an overnight shelter to reduce the number of tent encampments in the city and the tent encampments or the individuals sleeping in the business doorways, which anyone that drives downtown in the morning sees that. And so we continue to plea with the city to find a way forward.
 to open a year round weather amnesty. It doesn't solve homelessness, but it would solve it go a long way to solving the problem you're currently experiencing with tents being erected on that property. Thank you. Any other questions at this time? I would open it up to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of this resolution?
 Sam Centeas, 2740 Miami Street. I've had an opportunity to work with historic development through CDFI-friendly South Bend. And one of the things that's kind of interesting tonight, right, is the cameras left and the news left because the $100 million deals are done.
 But the fabric of our community, which is driving change and will continue positive change in South Bend, is small developers like this taking on projects that will make a major difference in our community. In a couple years from now, we're all going to be in the first floor of that building for something and go, I can't believe this cool space was vacant for so long.
 So I hope you favorably support this tax abatement, um, and support small developers in South Bend. I think the city of South Bend has done a great job through Marty and the team over there and Caleb and community investment thinking about how do we help develop small spaces in South Bend that are really the fabric of this community. That's what people get excited about. That's unique in our community. And I know something cool and unique is going to be in that space. Um,
 and help Monroe Park continue to move positively. So please support this resolution. Thank you. Just send a press release. Mr. Santellas. Thank you so much. Send the press release out. Is there any other anyone else wishing to speak in favor? The Tribune is still here. There you go, Jordan. There you go. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 23, 32 or 23, 33?
 Thank you. With that, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. I'd like to move for adoption Bill 23-32. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please, for 23-32. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye.
 Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Thank you for your investment. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. 23-32 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll for 23-33? Move for adoption of 23-33.
 AS WE MOVED IN SECOND AND CLERK JOHNSON YOU CALL THE ROLL I'M READY TO GO HOME YES OKAY UM COUNCIL MEMBER WAX AYE COUNCIL MEMBER WHITE AYE
 council member tomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president nisgatsky aye council member davis council member lee aye council member warner aye president mcbride aye thank you 23-33 has been adopted for bills on first reading sir jones will you please give bill 39-23 a first reading
 thirty nine twenty three first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year twenty twenty three of a hundred and ten thousand six hundred and fifty four
 from the general fund number 101 1 million 195 000 from the parks and recreation fund number 201 56 000 from the central services fund number 222 3 million 127 thousand ninety nine dollars from the local income tax economic development fund number zero number four zero eight
 $1 million from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area, number 413. $2,322,376 from the 2018 Tiff Park Bond Capital.
 Fund number 452, $1,482,530 from the 2017 Park Bond Capital Fund number 471, $100,000 from the Parking Garages Fund number 601, $100,000 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund number 641, and $6,000 from the Century Center Capital Fund number 671.
 That was 60,000. I thought I said 60. I said 6,000. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to move Bill 39-23 to Person on Finance for public hearing for June 26th. So moved. Second. Moved and second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Clerk Jones, will you call the roll, please? Yes. Vice President Naskowski? Aye.
 council member davis hey council member lee hi council member warner hi council member wax hi council member white hi council member thomas morgan hi council member hammond hi president mcbride hi thank you the motions carried clerk jones will you please give bill 40-23 a first reading
 40-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2023. I would like to entertain a motion to move Bill 40-23 to Person on Finance for public hearing and third reading on June 26th. So moved. Second. The roll, please. Council Member Davis. Second.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 41-23 a first reading?
 41-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments.
 of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 4123 to person on finance for public hearing and third reading on 626. So moved. Second. The move and seconded the roll, please.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give bill number 42-23 a first reading? 42-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, creating the 2023 TIF Fund Series, a capital fund, number 456. I would like to entertain a motion to send bill 42-23 to Person on Finance for public hearing and third reading on 626. So moved.
 Second. Has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine. Aye. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 43-23 a first reading?
 43-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adding Chapter 14, Article 10, Sections 14 through 61 through and including 1463, addressing extermination or pest control in residential rental units. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 43-23 to Health and Public Safety for public hearing and third reading on June 26th. So moved.
 has been moved in second and clerk chose the role please remember tomas morgan council member hammond aye vice president muskowski council member davis council member lee council member warner hi council member wax hi president mcbride hi nine eyes thank you at this time i'll turn to any unfinished business if done is there any new business well first the next council meeting is
 any your budget priorities, please have them submitted as the budget hearings are being finalized for schedule. And we are up to present our priorities. So please get that turned in to Bianca and also to Vice President Miszkowski. While it's still fresh, I just want to impress upon you the presentation from Dr. Lewis earlier. Really impressive.
 exclaims years and years of conversation about the need of partnership between school and city. I don't know necessarily how that works. I have some ideas, but I think he really illustrated the need for it, given the last part of his presentation about workers and expanding tax base and jobs and recruitment of employers to this area.
 Because it's still fresh, I wanted to bring it up. I've been saying the same thing since 2009. I really hope that this council moves forward with more discussion, but more of the real idea of a partnership between these two governmental entities because our community needs it. Thank you, Councilor White. Yes, I would like to make sure that we get a copy of Dr. Lewis presentation.
 Clerk Jones is nodding her head. Anyone else? At this time, I will turn it to the privilege of the floor. Is there anyone here wishing to speak for the privilege of the floor? You may do so at this time. Please state your name and address. And individuals who wish to address the council, state your name and address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion shall be 30 minutes. Please state your name and address.
 Good evening, Deborah Doral, 21677 Norton Road, South Bend. This is an impressive amount of work tonight. Thank you very much. I live about halfway between Portage Road and the St. Joseph River. So I live in an unannexed part of German township. But within about two miles, maybe three miles of my home, there is a mix of
 of seven county and city parks. And so I feel that this mix of parks that is very readily available to me that I visit almost every day is part of my quality of life here. And I'm so happy with the bike trails and the parks that have been improved, constantly improved.
 And we're in a tricky time right now because we have a lot of documents that are going on in the county and a lot of work that is being done in these areas. And I sent a letter about a week or two ago on this issue particularly, and this is why I'm coming to you tonight.
 As I ride up and down Riverside Avenue, Riverside Road, and the bike trails there, and I have been advocating for water and environmental issues at the county and state level for about seven years now. I am watching what is happening as we are trying to make our natural areas more accessible to the public. And we are tempted to...
 Make those natural areas unnatural.
 It's quite a challenge, and I do have quite a bit of experience, work experience in this myself. So I do understand the challenges are far beyond what most of us understand. And I've met with the Parks Department about this, and I think we're in agreement that they are being asked to go far beyond their capability right now to maintain issues.
 And because these park areas, especially along the riverbank, are not like other park areas. The riverbank is a riparian habitat and is a natural area that really survives because it is natural.
 and our ways of maintaining those areas so that they become accessible and comfortable for the broad variety of citizens that we have trying to use that. There is a gap of information, a gap of methodology, a gap of public awareness about what kind of challenge this really is.
 And so I'm moving forward with the Park Department's agreement to take this issue of awareness to the other entities that are engaging. There are a lot of players that are involved along the whole riverside within the city limits, but also beyond the city into the county and then into other counties.
 So as we are looking at the migration and the greenways and the clean water issues that we're all trying to deal with, it comes back down to who are we asking to accomplish these miracles for us? You know, these are beautiful areas, but there's a trick.
 to nuance seeing something that we have treated more as vegetation management and grounds maintenance. This is a highly scientific and very problematic kind of thing to address. And even big companies are struggling with how to do it successfully. So there's a lot of information that we are trying to move forward
 And the park department is very open. And I think that this is a good conversation to have right now. And I hope that we will be able to continue doing that with some of your involvement. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else? Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? If not, this meeting stands adjourned.