Avenue is just west of Memorial Hospital and it runs north and south. It's a two-lane road extending from Western Avenue to State Road 12 in Michigan. It is a posted speed limit of 30 miles per hour in my area, but most drivers at any given moment are far exceeding that limit. In fact, since moving into this neighborhood,
 neighborhood in September through last week, June 13th, my family alone has sustained five incidents of hit and run to our on street park vehicles. Three of those incidents occurred last week alone, two vehicles with one of them being hit twice in the same week. I'm sure you can empathize and understand our frustration.
 In speaking with my fellow neighbors, I was appalled to learn that I'm in all too good a company. Every one of them, some of whom have joined tonight as well, have suffered similarly. And it should be noted that this is a residential area and we have a number of households who include young children. I apologize. Those are my four legged children you're hearing. Yeah.
 Fortunately, while no one has been injured to date, this is a risk for our kids in this area.
 We tried various methods to try to mitigate this risk. We've parked in off-street garages or lots when they're available. Some residents do not have that as an option. We've parked in available side streets. I would note that there is not enough available open spots on those side streets to meet all of the demands of our neighborhoods here.
 And it also, one of those collisions, the hit and run was sustained to my son's car on a side street of Lamont Terrace. We park our vehicle. Ms. Wax, I think you have how many more minutes? Am I exceeded? Well, I'm checking with our attorney. Yes. Yes, you have. You can just become. Oh, it's lovely. Yeah. Yes. You are, but you can give a closing statement. Okay.
 Thank you. So just to say, this has been very frustrating. We're asking for this council's assistance in guiding us on what can be done to mitigate and manage it, whether it be installing speed bumps, cameras at the traffic lights, and implementing perhaps indented parking, parallel parking, much like we have in the East Bank Village.
 Thank you so much. And we'd like to share with you at our next council meeting, which is June 28th, Mr. Eric Horvath, who's over public works, will be giving an update under our city offices. And that will be the early part of our meeting. So we'll make sure that you get that information as well.
 Thank you so much for staying with us. Thank you. Sorry I exceeded my time. Thank you. We'll now move to Mr. Duncan, Drew Duncan. Yes. Make your name and address, please. Drew Duncan, 2103 High Street, South Bend, Indiana. A couple issues I'll try to address in the three minutes.
 One of which was an issue we addressed at the last council meeting, which was about three weeks ago. I spoke about the issues with the golf balls and the damage to people's properties on the High Street corridor. Since then, I have not heard anything back from a person from the council, a person from code enforcement, a person from the golf course. Nobody has said anything to me.
 to us on the street as far as myself or the neighbors. But continuing, we're just trying to get an understanding around what the city plans to do with this property that has this huge hole in the front of it. But second, I also as a city request that the city place a moratorium on finding its citizens for their grass
 And fines like that until the city can afford to cut all of its lots that belong to it. So, again, I own a couple of properties in South Bend. I'm passing properties that are owned by the city. I'm talking to people directly that are getting fined for their grass. But who gets to find the city?
 And in due to the fact that the city has millions of dollars of resources to keep their lives cut, and we're asking little old ladies and 90 degree heat to go out and cut these things I definitely think that there should be some type of moratorium on the fines at least for grass growing and cutting until the extreme heat stops and especially, you know, I will request that the city will stop until it can cut its own lots.
 Um, but lastly, I would like some clarification around the new rule that has come, uh, to the council and the committee, uh, about the disrespect about addressing council members, um,
 There seems to be, it's a very open-ended rule. And as a member of the public, I'd like clarity in writing from the council so that that rule applies to every citizen equally. As we all witnessed tonight, Ms. CJ Wax, which we're very happy that she stayed on the call and is just being an informed and engaged citizen, but she was able to go a minute over her time.
 While I've heard other people who may be mentioning voting records being stopped and muted so that we could avoid this confusion or to look as if this is malicious from the council, I would suggest and request as a citizen that that rule be provided in writing to some clarity as to what is deemed disrespectful,
 Is addressing a voting record in fact disrespectful? And if so, that's a separate conversation that we have to have. And just some general clarity around those rules and also so that we can apply them to people equally. 30 seconds, sir. That's all my time. OK, Mr. Duck, you still have 30 seconds if you like to use those 30 seconds. OK.
 Other than the fact that I would actually like somebody to reach out to me about the property damage coming from the city-owned property, I would love to see the grass cut that's now at 26 inches on three of the lots, just within 100 feet of my home.
 I would just love to see the city be proactive in the things that they own and have responsibility to before they go out in somewhat of a predatory manner and find people for these same offenses.
 Thank you, Mr. Duncan. We have a list of the questions with the concerns you've raised. And I apologize, I had this on my list to report back to you. And so again, it is my goal, as I said in this chair, when we come to
 privilege of the floor is to summarize what citizens have asked for, but also to put that back in writing. Council members do get a copy of just a small update just summarizing our discussion so that we will follow up. So I appreciate your feedback as well.
 If there's no, are there any additional individuals under privilege of the floor? That actually exhausts our list. If not, our meeting is adjourned. Thank you, council members. It is now 1015, and we got through the agenda, and I appreciate your attention, but also your willingness to really do the work that we've been elected to do. Have a great evening, and see you tomorrow.
 Thank you.