Live and work at 320 East Colfax in South Bend. I've been a lifelong member of this community. And I'm in the real estate development business. Puts me in a bit of a position here tonight because this is the only time and the only developer I've ever had to go and remonstrate against. Why? Because, well, in my business...
 My word is my honor. And I do live up to my expectations that I put in writing with the city. And over my 35 plus years in this business, I've had a lot of benefits and a lot of breaks. And I've been before a lot of the councils over the years. And I've lived up to those commitments. It's not to say that I've always made money on the projects. I don't know why we're talking about profitability here.
 I thought this was a risk-reward business, real estate. I thought a risk-reward business, pretty much any business. So if you give someone a benefit and they lose money, does that mean you didn't give enough benefit? I don't think so. I think what we have here, in my opinion, is an individual who has proven once, twice, three times, you're out kind of thing, that he cannot fulfill and has not been able to fulfill. So what do we have tonight? We have a big show tonight.
 Last gasp effort. Let's bring out, oh, I'm going to do those things I haven't been doing for all these years. I don't think, I think you should see through it. I think you should understand that this is a ploy, very successful in terms of the numbers of people you've seen. But I think that the mayor would probably be acting according to the benefits of most taxpayers in this city by vetoing, if you approve it tonight.
 But by better yet, rejecting it tonight, let's not waste any more time on a situation which is as clear as black and white, although they're trying to make it appear as though it's not that clear. Good intentions? Yes, he's had them. In fact, years ago, I joke with him. I thought that his word was good.
 I learned later that, you know, having developing right in the same blocks he is, it hasn't been good. And he has always been paid for good intentions. Pardon me. You've heard plenty about that. You've heard plenty about what he hasn't done, what he promised to do, but hasn't done. But it's not only about that. If the accountability and the integrity of the system was ever at stake, it's never been at stake more than right now. And to...
 to continue to give him benefits, to continue to allow him to be responsible in his actions, would be way, way more than we as taxpayers deserve. It's too little and it's too late. And there's a reason for that. Because pushed against the corner, seeing the vote this afternoon, you see the result tonight. It's a show. And please,
 Make sure you understand that that's all it is, is a show. And I hope you do the right thing tonight by denying Mr. Matthews his appeal for Bill 2420. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Matt Barrett, and I reside at 110 South Niles Avenue. I want to thank the committee, council, staff.
 everyone present for being here tonight because my guess is that no one really wanted to spend a summer night talking about these issues. I think it raises an important question about what type of city and community South Bend wants to be. I want to note that one of South Bend's five core pillars is accountability.
 and I'd like to talk solely about the accountability of the Commerce Center Development LLC. A particular developer made a number of promises, and those promises have not been kept. Both the Memorandum of Agreement and South Bend Municipal Code require the payment of taxes. There is no dispute that the old Commerce Center LLC,
 currently owes more than $114,000 in back taxes. That in and of itself should end the discussion. In addition, there are unpaid utility bills of more than $15,000. In connection with the request for the tax abatement, the Commerce Center Development LLC made at least two promises that have not been kept. First, to create and retain
 84 additional full-time jobs at the new Commerce Center, and second, to add at least $30 million in assessed valuation. When Council reconsidered this proposal in 2019, that $30 million was increased to $38 million. We do not have $38 or even $30 million of assessed valuation for
 And in fact, the management of the Commerce Center Development Corporation has gone to the county assessor and asked for a reduction in assessed value down to slightly more than $20 million. Mr. Matthews claims that the building was completed on January 1, 2022. As of that date...
 the Commerce Center Development LLC had received certificates of partial occupancy for only floors 6, 3, and the first floor lobby only. On January 21st of 2022, the fifth floor was granted a certificate of partial occupancy.
 As of January 1, 2022, the third floor was completed. There are six floors of apartments. 144 apartments divided by six means that 24 apartments had been completed by January 1st of 2022. We have subsequent certificates of completion for the second story parking garage only on February 1st.
 Partial occupancy for the seventh floor only on April 12th. Partial occupancy for the eighth floor only on May 10th. Partial occupancy for the ninth floor only on June 27th. Partial occupancy and temporary partial occupancy for the tenth floor only on
 August 31st, 2022. The note is clean all paint, drywall mud from electrical circuits, service stairwell door so it latches properly. Final certificate or partial certificate of occupancy for the 10th floor issued on September 23rd of 2022. This project was nowhere near completion on January 1 of 2022. Thirty seconds, sir.
 With regard to promises for the future, I want to point out that there are currently six rental safety verification program violations on 300 East LaSalle. Those citations were issued between the end of April and the end of May. All right, sir. It is my opinion that the Commerce Center LLC is an obstacle. Thank you, sir. Your time is up. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Jennifer Perry. I live at 320 East Colfax.
 And this is hard for me because I don't usually public speak, but it's quite the show tonight. And I just kind of felt compelled to say what I wanted to say. Let me start by saying that I have nothing personal against David or Velvet. I've known Velvet for many, many years. She was my tennis coach. I think she's a wonderful person. As one of the resolution supporters has said, this is not about the Matthews.
 And I agree, it's about following through with contracts, commitments, community partnership. There is no bias. This is a tax abatement issue, not about punishment or the value of his apartment project or everyone's love of David Matthews or what people think David has done for the community. The city attorney has illustrated why Resolution 2420 cannot be accepted.
 Two readings of this resolution and hours of discussion. And now tonight, Mr. Matthews is going to try to negotiate to do what he thinks is right to do. He is now going to cut the grass around Stonehenge and make a playground? What is that about? I think it's disrespectful. Is he going to now pay all his back taxes? Is he going to pay his fines? Is he going to pay his delinquent utilities? Yes.
 Developers need to make good faith promises and work with the city to uphold their commitments. It is not up to our city to give developers enough money to make their projects profitable, regardless of how great they think they are. All of us went through COVID, and business owners received incentives offered at the time. I am a business owner,
 and was affected by COVID and the LaSalle Street closure. I pay my taxes, do you? Should Matthews pay his taxes? Consider the ripple effect, was a comment somebody made. This is about the big picture, someone else said. This is about following through with commitment.
 The city, the taxpayers, and this council are not responsible for the success of this project or the developer's success. We've given enough to Mr. Matthews as taxpayers. It's now time to stand up for the taxpayers of our city, hold this developer accountable for contracts and commitments, and do not give in to threats of litigation. I ask you to not pass this resolution. Thank you.
 Thank you. Clerk Dorado, do you see anyone online wishing to speak in opposition of this resolution? I do not see anyone online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you, presenter. You have five minutes. Dr. Davis. Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad to be here to answer some of the questions. You know, people say the last minute situations. I remember the night before that night.
 One o'clock in the morning when the time when Mr. Mueller was calling me and we were working on that last minute to make some changes. I served as counsel for eight years as the zoning person. And for eight years, I remember Mr. Perry came to me and he came to me. We had to deal with something. He was mad at Mr. Matthews because Mr. Matthews testified against him. After that, they've been having this situation. But Mr. Perry is behind on two of his projects at this present time.
 Okay, and he just said integrity and everything else, but he's not keeping his own integrity. I learned a lot of that. I learned a lot of that when I worked with a lot of the developers, whether it was Mr. Perry, whether it was Panzeca, whether it was all this development on the north side, all that came in and Pizzello stepped down. All that was my headache. All throughout fourth district, Mr. Warner, all of those development was coming through. That was on my desk.
 I learned a lot about developers. We slowed down projects, we did projects, and then we were there when I still go to two places that I have a lot of peace. One when I go to the Martin's that is now the Spartans on Mayflower because he was working with that and then also this one. And so therefore, when that got pulled out, you see Mr. Mayor, Mr. Pete Buttigieg, our Secretary of Transportation, we all were excited. He was excited.
 because of the fact that we came together. We voted it down and we brought it back, we voted. We stayed out late at night. We did a lot of that. A lot of my gray hair came more from this kind of thing than anything else. I worked with these developers and we followed that. I'm going to tell you in closing, he's going to say close out with this. That's why we did the memorandum of understanding. We've done it with many times over my 13 years. Here, we've done it. We did it at Transpo. We've done it at other times, nothing new. Finally, I'm a professor.
 My colleagues here at Notre Dame and I've taught at several of the universities. Last week was finals at one of my universities. Last week, I felt like a priest because of the fact that so many of my learners were calling me saying this situation in this situation, giving me situations. If you've ever gone to school, many of you will have, whether it was elementary, whether it's college, whatever. They call me and ask for mercy. They were calling on my phone all week for mercy.
 Just mercy. Can you just give me an extra day? Can I have it in? I said, yeah, I got to turn in my grades. My grades were due this Sunday. And I was spinning up Saturday and Sunday because I was giving mercy. I have a lot of older students. I got a lot of people going through rough times. I got moms. I got single moms. I got single people been hurt. I got a lot of folk in there. And when I was a young professor, you have to have it on this date. As I got older and got gray hair, went to my own trials. I understand that.
 I understand. A student came to me one time and she said to me, I need mercy. And I sat there and I listened to her speech. Do you know why I listen so closely to her speech? She had a three o'clock meeting with me because at three thirty I had to go to my own professor and ask for mercy. And I used her speech as part of my speech.
 And as I was walking to my professor, I thought about it. I said, look, thank you for me giving her mercy for this mercy. Did it destroy her grade? Did it destroy and make her a poor student? Did it make the university bad? No, it made her a better student. And I thank her for her. No, thank you for mercy. I thank God for the person. Has everything gone well with all these? It didn't go all well with Mr. Perry. I can go through developer after developer after developer. And they know that, too.
 Okay? That's why I looked at him when he came up here to try to be righteous. That's not fair. I have seen them coming short. The developers have seen them coming short. Let's do it better. We can do better than that. I, as a teacher, want mercy. I watched last night, just mercy. I watched that program, and I said, that's my clothes tonight. Just mercy. Just mercy for Mr. Matthews. Just mercy for the people of South Bend. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Davis. What I haven't heard
 and the opposition and the remonstrances is a very important thing. We would not be here if the assessor had said the building was 100% occupied or finished before the deadline. And the only reason that this building was not completed on time was because an unforeseeable worldwide catastrophic pandemic happened.
 And the project was delayed by, according to the South Bend City Assessor, by a couple months. We would not be here talking about this, having spent all of this time and energy on it, but for COVID. And if this council does not recognize the impact on COVID that COVID had on this building, shame on you. Thank you. Thank you.
 at this time the public portion is now closed i'll turn to my colleagues to see if there's any comments or councilman warner so first i'll address the merits of the bill uh and then address the the last minute compromise um there's two major flaws in the bill as as we've heard now twice the the uh the tax id and the parcel id numbers are incorrect there's a attempt to try to
 straighten that out in the memorandum of understanding but the bill has a flaw in it major flaw there uh the second major flaw in the bill is that uh yes the the abatement is based on the assessments but the reality is the building was far from done as we've heard uh it only had occupancy when the bill says january 23rd of 2017
 It only had occupancy of the third floor, the sixth floor, and the first floor lobby. So the building wasn't complete on that date in January 27, 2022. Okay.
 As the bill states, and there's some hurdles here, basic hurdles that aren't met as we've heard repeatedly in every meeting, every tax abatement applicant and recipient must maintain good standing with the city.
 you can't violate city codes and ordinances and you must pay all your taxes owed in st joseph county here commerce center development llc has delinquent taxes of 678 000 563 000 of that is owed
 already on 300 LaSalle, and there's another 114, almost $115,000 that's owed on the Commerce Center building, which isn't even part of this. The Commerce Center building taxes are a year behind at this point. On top of this, as we've heard, there's other entities connected that owe additional funds, a total of $54,000 in delinquent taxes.
 Additionally, the LLC itself is not in good standing as there are outstanding code enforcement fines for rental safety verification violations that remain unpaid. And then totally across all of the entities, there's $221,000 in unpaid fines by at least
 owned by at least nine different entities at 13 different locations, including the six file ordinance violations under the Rental Safety Code Verification Program for the new building.
 And then you can go back. So Mr. Davis has showed us a few times the last-minute compromise deal done in January of 2017. And that night there were promises made at the beginning that haven't been fulfilled. The public parking is less than half of what was required by the agreement that was agreed to on that night in 2017. Okay.
 the uh jobs were supposed to be 84 jobs and a payroll of 2.3 million uh there's no confirmation documents what actual jobs have been created uh but i know some of the council have been told there's been maybe 30 jobs created at the new building um so so we we've got that kind of last minute compromise that happened and was in writing and hasn't been lived up to um
 I think regarding the other multiple extensions that have been given, yes, we've given multiple extensions before. However, none of them have been three and a half years late.
 And the rest of them were while the project was still finishing or shortly after finishing up. I know there's been a lot of comparisons to the dinosaur museum. We did that extension. That project is still ongoing and has not finished up. This one would be three and a half years after the agreement. And then the other ones, even though their designation period had lapsed and their tax bills went up, they paid their taxes still.
 including both the Dinosaur Museum and those of us that were on council last year, there was a Dairy Queen on Western that had the same, very same issue. She went ahead and paid her bills and paid her taxes. So there is a distinguishing difference here between those and this project. I think then, okay. And so I think for those reasons,
 the bill is defective and council should reject the bill at this time in regard to this last minute will be very transparent this was a one-sided very last minute 15 minutes before the meeting kind of agreement put together and it reads that way i'm not i appreciate your efforts here but there isn't anything here that isn't already supposed to be done uh on
 point A, clean up 225 Sycamore Street, Stonehenge, and make it a playground. There was already a written commitment to put an apartment building up that did not happen. And there is already an existing demolition order from code enforcement to tear down the building. So he's required to do that. So that's not anything that
 shouldn't already be redone. B, replace and demolish the burned out Manicor building. I would think given the state of the building, that's something that a responsible property owner would want to do on their own without being coaxed or cutting a deal regarding it. On C, it's pay his taxes.
 Everybody has to pay their taxes. D, operate the grocery store within the definition of the development agreement.
 There's a whole lawsuit whether that's actually happening now or not. The grocery store that's there is much smaller than what was promised on that night in 2017 with Mayor Pete and Dr. Davis. There's also some other definitions and requirements that the parties dispute whether that is actually happening now or not, including the location of the pharmacy.
 And then the fact that EE kind of just clarifies that and acknowledges that there's a flaw in the bill because it states that this tax abatement is only for the new building and not the Commerce Center building. And the first flaw that I mentioned, the parcel ID confuses that and makes it for the Commerce Center building.
 And then also, as was pointed out by somebody, if he doesn't do this, he agrees to a revocation of the tax abatement. The memorandum of agreement and the city code both say right now the way things are.
 He should not only be not get this extension, but his tax abatement should be revoked. So it's something that could already happen right now, that revocation. And I believe the position of the mayor has been if he doesn't get things remedied, that that should be the case. And I have a hard time disagreeing with that. I'm not against it.
 some kind of compromise. I'm against doing something now. I do think kind of in the legal world, we talk about a global deal that kind of resolves all of the issues. I think anything that doesn't resolve the litigation is a non-starter and all of the issues in the litigation. And that's kind of my thought on the MOU that we were provided. And I'm here.
 madam chair since she referred to me can i he shared my name a couple of times so can i have a personal response to it if possible because how long would it take we have to get the other council i can come to you can i come to you afterwards or would you forget
 If you won't forget, if you'll forget, I'll let you speak, but keep it short because I got to get, I was looking for my pen to write it down. I left it out there. No, go ahead and keep it brief. One of the things I do have the email, I could provide the council. Let's go with the issue of the title, which the attorney for the mayor and attorney had just talked about. Mr. Palmer, do you remember when I emailed you the first one? And we had some conversation regarding the,
 Title and because what Mr. Matthews sent to me for the original bill had this on there, but we had a discussion that it had to be according to your guidance to me. We had to give it to the original, turn it into the original. Could you share something on that, please?
 Because everybody, the attorney and everybody's been saying that the bill has been written wrong. And we had it the way it is here. And we sent that to our attorney because I did follow through our city attorney. I went through our city attorney and step by step. And when we sent that to him, he sent me the email. I have it on my email. I can send it to the rest of the Davis. And I'll have to speak on it if you don't mind. So I did recommend or I did say that we had to have the same.
 address that was in the original declaratory and confirming resolution the same title we did not change or talk about any parcel numbers
 No, that was the issue. That's why when it was originally sent to me, it had that other address on there, which would have cleared that we wouldn't have had to put it in the written commitments. But what happened was Attorney Palmer had shared with me that we had to use that address. That's why it's there. And then the second part. So the parcels have been re-
 I understand all that. We clearly understood. That's why he sent it to me. And I sent all that to him with that understanding that it had been. I clearly know. I mean, I've been here from the start. And so when I sent that to our attorney and I have it, he sent me back and he called me.
 And he said, we have to use the original address with that. And we have that. And so that's why you have that. And I'm our city attorney. And you have alluded to that. But that was on the original email that I sent to him with that address. And he said we had to have the original one. So we changed it. He said, would that be okay? I said, well, you're the attorney.
 OK, can we? So the second last thing is what he said. I do want to share that the JMS building was also behind in taxes when we did their abatement. And so and they were behind in taxes. And that was a part of the whole documents that you can go back and check. It is over fifty thousand dollars in taxes. They were behind taxes.
 and that this council with the support of Mayor Mueller, who brought them there, you can check that meeting, they went back and go check this out. This is not rocket science. If you go back and check, they were behind in their taxes as well.
 And so we went and handled that. We got them up to date and we moved on. So we have done this to other businesses being on the zoning. And I was also on that standpoint. So this won't be the first time that we have. Dr. Davis, I'm being it. Thank you, Bennett. You presented. I need to move on to the council and you can still comment. But I would like to move on to the rest of the council to give them that opportunity as well. Anyone else? I'd like to say something about that.
 I forget the entity that you were saying that was declaring that only 30% of the floor was occupied. And I don't know the name of the entity that made that declaration. It almost doesn't matter because with abatements, that depends on the assessor's visit.
 Counselor Bolton, can I please do the same for you? Since you all were presenters, you had the opportunity to speak and it's getting late in the evening. I need to go to council. We'll be here as long as we need to. But we need to have our other counselors speak if they would like to. And if not, I can definitely yield back your time. Is there anyone else wishing to speak, make any comments, Counselor Lee? Yes, I would just like to say first and foremost, yes.
 to Mr. Matthews and to his group of people who have come to support him. I don't have any ill will towards you or anything like that. I'm one of the council members who is very much pro-development, pro-tax abatements, because when we make these commitments, we actually believe that the developers are going to follow through with what they say they're going to do.
 Because at the end of the day, the taxpayers are looking at us to make sure that if we go into an agreement with someone that they're going to follow through what they what what what what they say they're going to do. So please know that there's no ill will or it's not. I don't I don't I can speak for myself, but I feel like other members of the council, um.
 It's not it's not personal. It's not no one. No one hates you or no one hates Dave Matthews. But we are accountable to the to the taxpayers who look to us to be the the ones who say, if you made an agreement and a simple part of the agreement is making sure that your taxes are up to date. I looked at all of the things from the memorandum of understanding that we got about 15 minutes before the council meeting.
 And the questions I have is, if these things are possible, why have they not been done? If there's 144 units and you have 2,000, some people are paying 2,000, some are paying 13 to 14, that's a couple hundred thousand dollars a month in rent. So if I was in an agreement with somebody, I would make sure that my
 my obligations are met so that if there is trouble, at least I could say my obligations have been met. And then for the grace, the other question was, you know, going before the RDC when they requested. If someone is giving me money, then you do you do owe them explanations. And when times are going bad and things.
 So those are the things that have been just troubling. I went to see the facility and and I love seeing the development of of the East Race. I love seeing what they're doing in the Commerce Center. I love seeing that their apartments and the parking garage and a grocery store. And but at the end of the day, as as as people are watching us,
 Or as, you know, people say, oh, the council just gives away money. Oh, council's just doing tax abatements and not holding anybody accountable. How can we reward bad behavior? Or how do we how do we reward someone who hasn't met the minimum obligations? And so, again, this is not it is not it is not nothing personal. If we set this type of precedence that.
 Eventually, then where do people have to follow the guidelines of what has been established? So I'm not for you. I want to see you succeed. I would love to see these taxes paid. I would love to see everything done the way that it needs to be done. And I just I wanted the community to know this is not regardless of how people are framing this. This is not it's not a hate.
 It's not a hate against Mr. Matthews. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, I'd like to say when I ran for office, I said on my brochures that I would be honest. I would do the right thing. I would work with people. I will help people. But this has gone too far. This is not about Mr. Matthews and hate. I don't even know him. I've met him. But this is about business, right?
 I was a single mom for many, many years. I started buying a house. I never missed a payment. I paid my taxes. I had no utilities shut off. I kept my property up. And I believe in business. I am sorry for what is going on here. I wish there was a better solution, but I cannot support this bill. Anyone else? Councilor Tomas Morgan. Thank you, President.
 Firstly, I just want to wish everyone who wrote letters, called, came out tonight and two weeks ago, all of you who spoke, wrote, called in support and in opposition of this tax abatement modification. What I saw in that response is that there are people of goodwill on both sides.
 And it was clear to me that what we all share and have in common is that we are all on the side of South Bend. We just have differing opinions on what that looks like. I shared two weeks ago and again today in council that.
 It was really enough for me to oppose this bill because of the active litigation that we have. But I last week took two two hour meetings with Miss Velvet Canada and Mr. Dave Matthews to hear their perspective and to try to gain some new information. It sounds like others on my on our council accepted those invitations as well.
 And I shared earlier today what I learned, that Mr. Matthews couldn't guarantee that the grocery store would remain open in six months, couldn't guarantee that even a year from now that he wouldn't be in this same situation. I heard today lots of things. I heard just a few.
 pick up on a couple things. I heard a request for us to be people of goodwill and empathy. Mr. Matthews and I talked about that when we met last Thursday, goodwill and empathy, and I asked what that looked like for him.
 I talked about how humility goes a long way and that I felt that even just a little bit of humility and showing up at meetings and respect wouldn't have landed us in this situation that we see ourselves today. I've heard tonight about bias.
 that there's bias. I don't think it's bias. I think that what is underneath all this is trust, lack of trust. And it's clear that the Matthews development lacked trust in the city, and the city lacks trust in Mr. Matthews and his projects. Agreements are based on trust,
 So two weeks ago, when I asked about memorandum of agreement that I saw lacking in the filing, you were to submit that to me and us. And there were documents that were submitted, past agreements that were signed. I was.
 referring to any revised memorandum of agreement, quite honestly. And you had two weeks to provide that. That wasn't included in the documents that were forwarded and directed specifically to me. Excuse me. Could you please mute your microphone, who's ever online? Because we can hear you. Thank you. But it seems that after...
 committee meeting today that this memorandum of agreement with five points was rushly drafted and provided to us. And you're asking us to trust that you would keep those promises when we have seen that you haven't been able to do that in agreements that were signed in 2017. Um, I don't like the precedent that the council would set if we passed
 this abatement modification, and therefore I cannot support it. Finally, I just want to say that no matter how the council votes on this tonight, I believe that each of us are voting for what we believe is best for our city, the city that we love. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? No. Now, Dr. Davis or Councilor?
 Bowdoin Simpson, you have any other comments? Yes. Closing out. Again, I would like to thank everybody for coming out tonight. All due respect, Councilwoman Thomas-Morgan, I thought that what I was sending you was the memorandum for that tax. What was that thing? The memorandum was not this kind of memorandum. That was never . For us, the ones, but that's okay. But that was different from this kind of a memorandum.
 That's what I said. This is a different type of memorandum from my mindset. We sent what we thought that we had a clear understanding on. I would have appreciated if that wasn't what you received, since I sent it earlier, that I would have been notified. I asked the committee if there are any questions or concerns that they have, please send it to me and I will furnish it.
 So I did publicly put that on a record and I sent that ahead of time. So that was not any last minute. I sent that earlier last week so people had questions or concerns, and I did thank you for your reply. I think tonight, I'm very grateful that we have heard all this different information. Whether it's a 15-minute or 30-minute memorandum of understanding, it's a memorandum.
 And I think that with the attorneys on our city council, with the attorneys and the mayor and with the attorneys that are here, we can continue to have a win win situation with a person that has invested more money. His investors have invested more money than this tax abatement that we're talking about. They've invested a lot of money.
 And so with the investment that they have done, I just think that the due diligence of everything else, since we have made progress since all these meetings, I will. My colleague is planning to ask for I'll let her share that. I just want to say this before I share the final thing. The council decision won't stop litigation.
 And, you know, that might have to just carry out and hopefully mediation would resolve that. So I think that needs to be kept in mind that the litigation is separate. And then I leave with a question. What is the positive that's going to come out of not extending the designation period?
 What is the positive that will come out of that? So for that reason, it seems like you're looking at the memorandum and I want to move. Can't do that yet. No, because I haven't made my. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Yes. Vice President Nizgatsky. Thank you. I almost heard a lot tonight like we were had this predisposition.
 I didn't even know about a lawsuit or any of this until all of a sudden we have this bill in front of us. And then we get all of these emails and people talking and back and forth. I did go. Dave took the time with me. The Commerce Center is lovely. The apartment building is lovely.
 but I didn't know that it was framed in a way that, I mean, this was something that was brought to us. This wasn't something that any of us here, you know, chose to be heard. It was brought before us. And the things that I've heard is it was a 10-year abatement. I think you're in year seven. The first five years were 100% abated. If that's clear,
 Okay, okay, kind of, whatever. There's been so much back and forth on what we have heard, and I've tried to keep an open mind on what is the best, what's the pros, what's the cons. There's been a lot of money invested, and there was overages, but there was a lot of taxpayer money that was given, too, to the project. So I don't know if it was just bad timing on the project altogether or,
 But the one thing that keeps radiating is that none of the taxes, it's this clause about you must pay all the taxes in St. Joe County as part of the original agreement. That's one of the most glaring things for me. So I just wanted to let everyone know that this was a lot. We've had hours and hours of listening to everything and nobody wants to see anybody fail. I don't think that's true.
 That's nobody wants to see anybody fail at anything. We do want to support one another. Thank you. And I would just follow up that I haven't had the privilege of seeing any positive or negative zone because I'm not on social media anymore. It's been a long time, but.
 With this, I've heard the word communication and appreciation going on. And as the president of the council, other than getting an invitation, I believe, a few weeks ago, which I could not come and visit your location because of my new employment, but I don't get off into the evenings and start early in the morning. However, you know, years ago, I visited your site and frequent the Commerce Building, whether it's Ray, it's Barbershop or...
 or getting a healthy shake when it was there. I don't know if they're still there or not, or for the ribbon cutting of the mental health unit in the Commerce Building. So knowing that that's a beautiful location, but it saddens me when we talk about communication because
 Other than the invitation of, I think, a few weeks ago, no one, even not even my colleagues have contacted me to ask or to say, how can we try to mediate or resolve this? And then to get the MOU tonight. And unfortunately, I know you came back, Mr. Matthews and. Yeah.
 You were even trying to help me with my computer issues that I'm still not logged onto the system. But to come within a few minutes to have a two minute conversation before we get on the floor. You know, I wish had we had an opportunity to have a conversation to see and not just bring things, I think, good service at times, unless it's a bill that statutorily has to come on council.
 there are some times when we're making up the agenda there are some things that if we can talk about and have a resolution moving forward sometimes that's better than when you put it on the agenda and you force the council into making a decision it does make people seem like you're putting one against another but when you have to make a decision the first phone call that i received was saturday
 On my way to my nephew's funeral, who got shot and killed, asking on behalf of Mr. Matthews for me to think about the consideration. And this was just this past Saturday. And then I started getting phone calls all day yesterday. And I'm like, had we had conversations to talk about and not just.
 information and I do appreciate all the emails on both sides that people are doing. But sometimes good government is how can we sit at the table and work together and not wait until the 11th hour to then try to see what we have to do because what I do, I have to look at the facts and the information that came before us. I wasn't on council when this project started, but I've been on the
 on council since the duration of the project. So I have to make my decision based on the information that I have on hand as well. And with that said, I'll turn the council to see if anyone would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2420. If I may, I'd like to move for a continuance since some more details of the MOU could be worked out. OK. OK. Clerk Tirado, there's a motion on the floor. Would you take the roll, please?
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Nay. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Nay. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Nay. Can you repeat that? No. President McBride. Nay. I have six nays and two ayes. I'd like to move for passage. Seconded.
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk, to out of the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers? Nay. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Nay. Council Member Lee? Nay. Council Member Warner? Nay. Council Member Bolden-Simpson? Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis? Aye. Vice President Neskovsky? Nay. President McBride? Nay. I have six nays and two ayes. I'd like to move for mediation. Second.
 Toronto? Is there a comment? I don't even know. Council member? I have a point of order. It's not a motion that can be acted upon by the council. It can be. Attorney Palmer? I move to reject the bill. There's nothing in the code that authorizes mediation of bills up for vote. Anything that doesn't authorize it? No. Okay.
 if it doesn't authorize it and does authorize it then what is the issue there's nothing to authorize it the vote is to pass deny or table those are the three options we have a motion on the floor now from council member thomas morgan i moved to reject or deny this bill i would second the motion and i would state that i'll repeat you know i'm not i think a compromise or a settlement is is needed
 Right. That's I think everybody agrees on that. Well, how do we do that? I do think that it needs to happen more broadly. How do we do that? But it's like we decided right now, but.
 I mean, we can, that's what we are asking. So we consider, you've done that many times as an attorney. We don't have to rush. And with all due respect, if it's filed at the same time, if these things take two and three meetings, that's fine. I mean, we have the people here, people say they respect,
 the residents of them. But these are residents of South Bend, too. They have concerns and they have issues and they want to see this passed. Some people say, well, I'm here to support the residents and make sure that their taxpayers are dollar. Well, when we have investors here, that's not necessarily the best thing to do, too. So how can we have that remediation? That's all I'm asking is remediation. Or what can we do for, like you, the first one that suggested that we saw that we had this memorable event
 MOU. So let's just see what we can do with it. That's all I'm saying. Okay. We'll have to keep working on it. We got a motion on the floor and what's the motion for the record? Yes, please repeat. Yes. I move to deny the bill. Bill number 24-20. Point of clarification. Point of information. I call the vote, please. No point of information. I just have a question for our attorney just for that.
 If a person is denied, how long do they have to before they come back? Within a reasonable time, no earlier than the meeting after the next meeting. No earlier. So basically, by August, they can come back. I'm sorry. So in August, this bill can come back? Yes. Okay, cool. Okay. I'm sorry. There was a motion, and I don't recall who seconded it. Please. Councilman Warner. Councilman Warner made the second. Clerk Tirado, please call the roll. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. May.
 This is a motion to reject. Oh, thank you. Rejected. I vote to reject it. Yes. I didn't know. Read me what we're doing, please. Yes. There was too much going on down. Can you explain the difference now with the rejection of the bill? The motion is to reject the bill. So if the vote is yes, you vote to reject the bill. Correct.
 If the vote is no, you vote not to reject the bill. Thank you. Again, Clerk Tirado, the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. I vote to reject the bill. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. I vote to reject the bill. Council Member White. It's excused. I'm sorry. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Nay.
 Council Member Dr. Davis. I vote to bring this bill back in August with some clarification. And so we can do some mediation and then both sides. Dr. Davis, you got it. That's what I vote. That's a separate motion. I don't know what that is. Is that an aye or nay? Because that's a total separate recommendation. No, I said I didn't vote to that. And so what you what you said?
 It would be a nay. I voted not to reject the bill, so I said nay. I'll go with my colleague. She's been a fighter on this, did a great presentation, so I'm going to go with her, and we're going to bring this back in August or so. Thank you. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes, two nays. Thank you. I'm sorry. Okay, you can go. Resolution 24. I apologize to my hub for being insolent.
 We will turn to bills on first reading. Clerk Tabarato, would you please give bill 30-24 first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1022 East Colfax Avenue, Councilman District Number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send bill 30-24. And I have a point of order. We are still in session.
 I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 30-24 to South Bend Plan Commission. So moved. Second. Thank you. That will go to South Bend Plan on 7-15 and ZNA for public hearing the third reading on July 22nd. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 31-24 first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Clerk Tirado, I'm sorry. I didn't take the vote on that. All in favor for Bill 30-24? Aye.
 Any opposition? The motion is carried. Thank you, Councilor Warner. Clerk Tirada, will you please continue to read 3124? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing to and bringing within city limits of South Bend, Indiana, and amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 17-023 Helper Street,
 Council Manning District number four in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding 3124 to send a ZNA on 715 and for public hearing on August the 26th for council and then for third reading on September 9th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motions carried. Clerk to order. Will you please give bill 3224 first reading?
 First, we're going to an ordinance to vacate the following described property. The first north south alley north of Marion Street, east of Lafayette Boulevard and west of Main Street and the portion of Main Street located between the north line of the first east west alley north of Marion, east of Maine and the vacated Navarre Street.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send bill 3224 to public works and property vacation for public hearing and third reading on July 8th. So moved. Second. Been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Is there any unfinished business at this time of the council? Seeing none, I will turn. Is there any new business? I would just like to thank everybody for their thoughts and prayers and acts of kindness for my family. Um,
 For my great nephew, Elias Ennis Pettiford, who was shot and killed on Victoria Street. And also on behalf of the White family, Karen White is not here today because she buried her nephew today to a gun violence shooting as well. So keep her lifted up in your prayers as well.
 Councilman Lee. Yes, I just want to thank everyone for participating in the Juneteenth celebration on Saturday. It was a beautiful windy day.
 And it was great for everybody to come together to celebrate Freedom Day and Juneteenth. So thank you to everyone. Thank you. And just as a reminder, the filing deadline for our July 8th council meeting will be on Tuesday, July 2nd, due to the holiday. So, again, the filing deadline is July 8th for meeting is Tuesday, July due to the July 4th holiday.
 Is there anyone else with new business? And there also would be the press release that will be going out on July 3rd. Any other new business? Seeing none, I will turn to the person on the floor. Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you. Good evening. Sue Castle, 4022 Kennedy Drive. What I've given you is something I've asked for for probably a decade, is figuring out the cost of a shooting.
 We had seven shootings in 48 hours, and it looks like the summer is just heating up. And of course, there's a personal tragedy, as Councilman McBride knows and Councilman White. And my interest in this was when two of my friends had their grandchildren's grandbabies gunned down on the streets of South Bend.
 So I think we need to know the cost of the shooting financially. We've got budget hearings coming up. I know it's been a long night, so I'm going to try and make this brief. But if you go to the very end of the handout, it's estimated a non-fatal shooting incident costs anywhere between $50,000 and $500,000. And a fatal shooting incident costs anywhere from half a million to $2 million.
 Think about that. We have over two shootings a week and it's just escalating. We really need to work on the prevention, not only because it's an absolute tragedy, but it's also bankrupting the taxpayers.
 And so for this upcoming budget season, I would appreciate this guideline that I've presented. I know there's several financial analysts at the South Bend Police Department. I think they could fill it in to be more accurate for our actual location. I think it would be really good for us to to understand this. Thank you.
 And also ask for the GVI for metrics like they do in Baltimore and Philadelphia. I also forwarded those to the gentleman who's head of GVI right now.
 Um, so, um, I would appreciate your consideration of figuring out these amounts. Um, I think they'd be very useful, uh, to the taxpayers and the citizens of South Bend, uh, in light of the escalating violence. Thank you so much. Thank you. Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street and, uh, President McBride. I am just so sorry to, to hear that. And, uh,
 I want desperately to help the city and to take the violence and the guns off the street the best we can to help these young kids and everything that's going on. It's one's too many that we lost. So I'll do, again, I'll continue to meet with you guys and talk about solutions and proposals. And Business United is committed to trying to do more of that, too. So.
 South Bend Municipal Code Chapter 2, Article 1, Section 2-10.1. It's the powers, duties, and procedures of the Council Rules Committee. D is vacancies. A vacancy on the Rules Committee due to cause shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. A temporary vacancy shall be deemed to exist in the matter under investigation by the committee that involves any of the committee members.
 said member may return to the committee after the matter has been finally resolved and if the council member desires to be reinstated. Per the Municipal Code, Vice President Sheila Naskowski and President Sharon McBride needed to be removed from the Rules Committee while they have and had active complaints against them.
 The public needs an explanation as to why South Bend's Common Council has not followed the Municipal Code and has not removed these individuals from the Rules Committee. I would like a response in writing from President McBride and Mr. Bob Palmer before the end of the week to why this has not followed. Now, a famous teacher said it's time to just pause for a second and just digest that.
 Next, again, I'm officially requesting the resignation of Southmen's Common Council Vice President Sheila Naskowski, following her assault and intimidation of Logan Foster at the conclusion of the May 13th Common Council meeting. Should Vice President Naskowski choose not to resign, I demand the remaining eight council members to censure her actions and strip her of all committee assignments.
 Furthermore, I assist that this vote be conducted in a public forum so that the community can be fully informed about which council members condone assault, intimidation, and the suppression of free speech.
 This is a matter that must be addressed without delay. And delay is something that's been happening too long, and we're just not going to go away. Thank you. I don't need the rest of the time. I think I can probably save you the ink with the Rules Committee.
 anybody on the Rules Committee. If with me being president, particularly, if there's a complaint against me, I will not sit on that. That does not remove me from being on the Rules Committee unless there's a complaint against me. And when that is heard and that date is set, I will not sit on that Rules Committee, just like any other person on a council who would be on that Rules Committee. So that's not a...
 me sit down until then. But at the time when that investigation occurs to take place and it's in the hand of the legal department, when it takes time, I will be removed from my own complaint. I believe that there has been a violation and I would love to have that response. Let me finish, please. Sure. I just finished my answer. I would love to have that response in ink.
 That's all I'm asking. Well, you can hear it on the video if you like, or the parliamentarian, if he choose, he can respond. But I just made that publicly known for everyone. So it would be no misinterpretation. So you're telling me you're refusing to send me something in writing about my- I'm not saying I'm returning. I said the parliamentarian, since you said he or I, I said he can- I actually asked for both. I asked for both. He can speak on behalf. He represents the council. So I'll have him if he put that in writing. Mr. Palmer, I would appreciate that. Next, please. Sarah Foster, 1138 College Street.
 forty three days ago vice president sheila nizgatsky assaulted and attempted battery on my husband logan foster and has yet to be reprimanded or take accountability for her actions the south bend code ordinance chapter two article one section two dash two g says the council shall have the power to discipline council members when will the council hold vice president nizgatsky accountable for her behavior
 This is not the type of behavior that should be condoned by our elected city representatives. Myself and 200 other residents have signed a petition demanding the resignation of Vice President Naskotsky. Thank you. Logan Foster, 1138 College Street, South Bend Municipal Code, Chapter 2, Article 1, Section 2.2i.
 the council shall have the power to financially supervise and investigate all departments, officers, and employees of the city. To Councilman Kenneth Lee and Councilwoman Ophelia Rogers, on Mayor's Night Out, you both shared that you did not know where the council had the authority or the duty to investigate employees of the city. You asked me to show you where it is in your job description. Again, you
 please look at code 2.2i. On May 7, 2024, Community Investment paid DLZ Indiana LLC $270,940 for a transaction labeled Bendix Drive.
 Two weeks later, another transaction was made with DLZ Indiana titled Correction, resulting in a refund of $265,442.50 from DLZ Indiana. Surprisingly, instead of sending $5,497.50, the city of South Bend mistakenly transferred over $270,000 to DLZ. Who bore the consequences of this error?
 What other $265,000 blunders has our government or this individual committed? As stipulated in the Municipal Code, the Council holds the power to probe into this oversight. When the Council neglects to address $265,000 in overpayments, the public is left questioning why. Who stands to gain from this situation?
 This needs to be investigated, and I am asking you to investigate this. And I also have copies, if you would like to take the copies and pass them out, of the transactions to DLZ and the City of South Bend. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Brendan Crumlish, local businessman with an office at 3215 Sugar Maple Business Court in South Bend. I'm here tonight as the president of Businesses United 4.
 We're a corporation representing over 20 South Bend businesses. We are seeking fairness for the truly homeless in our community, as well as greater fiscal responsibility from our local government. And lastly, fairness and freedom for all media platforms to share and report on the actions of our government. All of this is transparent for the genuine improvement of the city of South Bend. Two weeks ago, I stood before you and noted that few of you had agreed to meet with us
 to learn about our plans to protect the city from being overrun by more homeless immigrants from surrounding states and communities. At that time, only three of you had met with us individually. Since that last council meeting, Councilman Lee and Councilwoman Simpson have responded with offers to meet with us and we look forward to sharing our plans with both of them directly.
 Councilwomen Nizgatsky, McBride, and Morgan, and Councilman Warner still have yet to agree to meet with us. So in a greater effort at openness and goodwill, tonight I am telling each of the four of you remaining, we will share our plans and strategies with you by certified mail. You can then read through our proposals on your own, and afterwards, we'll share our
 I ask each of you then to reconsider and meet with us one-on-one so we can hear your thoughts, wishes, and concerns in reply. I'm confident you will not be disappointed with our plans. Please listen to us as our duly elected officials and then meet with us, your constituents, so we can hear what you have to say about our plans. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Dr. Rottle, you see anyone online wishing to speak? I do not see anyone online or in the public wishing to speak under privilege of the floor. I have my hand up. Mr. Davis, please unmute yourself and state your name and address. Can you hear me? We can. Great. I'm sorry. Henry Davis, Jr., 5117 Idlewood Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619. Thank you.
 And I'm really reluctant in saying what I'm going to say, but I feel like it needed to be said. Several years ago, and I think most of who are up there, probably the room are clear on who I am. I've served on the Common Council for a number of years. And what I'm going to say is this. While I went through the things that I went through, 90 percent of them didn't stick to me.
 The council wanted an action of either an investigation or some act to figure out how they were going to discipline me. Again, 90% of the stuff that was put on me actually stuck because I didn't do it. We're up against the same thing right now. And so the only thing I can say is there's no difference between me and those who are serving right now. The law hasn't changed.
 And so when we feel like as elected officials that we have the ability to pick and choose winners and losers, society loses. Only thing I'm asking for is fairness. I'm asking for the fact that, you know, I experienced it. Others can experience it as well. If you didn't do it, if you come out cleaner on the side.
 you know, kudos to you. If you don't, then obviously there are consequences that you have to suffer. And that's just a part of being an elected official. So I encourage leadership, those who can hear me, to continue to push forward and to make sure that we don't see blatant discrimination within our own Common Council. God bless you all. Take care and God bless. Thank you. Mr. Jesse Davis, please unmute yourself and state your name and address.
 Jesse Davis, PO Box 10205, South Bend, Indiana. I was actually at the meeting earlier in person, but I had another appointment, so I had to leave and decided that I wanted to come home and watch the rest of the meeting and the vote online. Again, I want to reiterate that we need to make sure that our elected representatives and our city government as a whole.
 in fact, get back to transparency, honesty, and dignity. I've not only been lied to via emails and letters from people within the mayor's office, but also from our city attorneys, and I can prove it. I can prove there was perjury in a court of law by city employees and the city attorney at that point in time. I brought documents to show Ms. McBride tonight
 And again, I'm going to ask if Nizgatsky Plumbing is still being handed work by the city of South Bend as they were back in 2010. There was a list that the city passed out and the city was forcing homeowners to use that contractor in particular, along with another contractor who was double dipping and he was ran out of town.
 because of an ordinance or a bill that the council passed at that time. So, again, there's a lot of things going on behind the scenes that aren't being discussed public, and there's not much honesty being put out by a lot of people, and there is definitely no dignity involved.
 And I will appear at the next meeting and I'll bring the documents I brought tonight for you, Ms. McBride. And then you can go over them and you can see exactly where the city told me this list of contractors did not exist. The city attorney also told me that. They also claimed it in a court of law under oath. But I also have numerous copies of several lists.
 that the city was passing out. And I also have video of city employees passing this list that didn't exist out to some of my customers and telling them they had to use Nizgatsky plumbing or bath excavating. So we'll just get back to the honesty, integrity and transparency at the next meeting. But thank you. Thank you. Anyone else, Clark Toronto?
 I do not see anyone else online or in the public that's wishing to speak. Thank you. With that being said, this meeting is adjourned.