Thank you.
 Thank you, Father. Thank you, Father. Elder Darryl Sandberg, welcome, and thank you for coming. Thank you, Mary. We today have the confidence and great privilege to present our prayer of hearts and prayers. Every father, we thank you for the opportunity that we have to be with you. We have to be with you, but you gave us grace in order that we may be able to come to conduct your wishes.
 that are the business of the people of South Carolina. Thank you for those who were chosen and still with people who visit with you, that you have a clear heart and mind, that will set aside personal issues and so forth in order that the will of the people will come forward. And the thing that you have already ordained that should happen, it comes by.
 God's discipline is putting in order that they would be able to step into the mission in order that they would conduct the world's business, so shall it be. So we thank you that we're not going to make decisions because a man is poor or because a man is rich, but because it is the right thing to do. And so we give you praise for that. We thank you that even when you disagree, you still agree that it's you who give us guidance, you give us strength, and you are the one who gives us the wisdom.
 over that which is prevailing over this evening. For every person, not only of counsel, but every person that is in the audience who will speak over this evening, that will speak from the heart of the United, that the will for people who need this will be met. And that God will be rich as a result of the kind of strength that he gave. And he did pray with the honor and glory for us. Because if it weren't for you alone, you wouldn't have slipped into Jesus Christ's life. Amen. Thank you. Come back here.
 At this time, I would like to ask everyone to bow their heads for a moment of silence. Um, we'll ask Mohammed's sister for a new treatment mindset. So, we can just take a moment of silence. Thank you. At this time, we'll rise for the pleasure of the meeting. Thank you.
 FIRST, YOU'RE ALWAYS CALLED TO VOTE, MADISON. FIRST, YOU'RE ALWAYS CALLED TO VOTE, MADISON. FIRST, YOU'RE ALWAYS CALLED TO VOTE, MADISON. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. PRESENT. PRESENT. PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. PROVED. PROVED. PROVED. COUNCILMEMBER WEBB. COUNCILMEMBER WEBB. COUNCILMEMBER
 IT'S BEEN TABLED UNTIL 7 JULY 10. SO WE'RE HERE FOR 24-23. IT'S BEEN TABLED UNTIL JULY 10. BILL 27.3 HAS BEEN TABLED UNTIL JULY 24. AGAIN, BILL 27.23 UNTIL JULY 24. BILL 35.23 HAS BEEN WITHDRAWN.
 3523 has been withdrawn. And lastly, Bill 4323 has been tabled and so is Bill 124. If you want to make a note of someone online or in the audience and you're here for those particular bills, I don't want to waste their time to be here, that's what you're here for. With that, we'll continue on with the meeting. Report from subcommittee, a minute. LeWan and Mr. Weck.
 I have a report from the subcommittee for minutes from March 27th, 2023 to May 22nd, 2023. Um, written in for approval. I have a question, but I just want to change the name. I didn't notice. I didn't notice. I'm sorry.
 No, Mr. McGrath, I'll be... Thank you. Okay. Thank you for that being said. The president, is there a second? We move the second rule of the club's doors are open. Councilmember Davis? Oh, I'm sorry. Roll-side acclamation, all in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Thank you, Mr. Wendell. Right now, we will move to reports from the city. Aye, Mr. Horvath.
 Oh, I see the pin here. Okay. Thank you so much for the, Alex, kind of project update. Thank you. Great. Thank you for the final brief presentation.
 Thank you. Again, my name is Jitin Kain. I'm the deputy director in public work in the city of South Bend, upstairs on the 13th floor of the building, providing a brief update on a program that we're calling Improving Neighborhood Alley. And it's an effort to provide additional emphasis on alley cleanup and grading. So here's a quick update. This really began
 late last year with Council Members Ken White, Chairman Brey, met with representatives from the Venues and Parks and Arts Department, Public Works, and Court Enforcement Services. And we began talking about some of the concerns that all Council Members have heard about and what the city was currently doing. So we talked about some of our current efforts to
 But then we also brainstormed some ideas on how we could be more aggressive in dealing with some of the issues that council members were dealing with. So the results were those three sort of pathways to addressing some of these concerns. The first was to make alleys passable. As you know, there are several alleys that have overgrowth, crease, and brush that are not certain passables.
 Although it's the responsibility of the property owners to maintain the alley. So that's still been a big concern. So that was one pathway. The other was clean up, how good code and other services can be more aggressive in cleaning up alleys.
 to take care of some of the illegal dumping and other issues that we experience. And the third was the grading, which Public Works manages. How we do the grading, how we improve the grading, ways to be doing it more efficiently, can you do more grading. If you recall, in last year's budget, we did add some additional funding for grading, which I'll talk about. So that was the third pathway.
 At the end of the year, we were able to find some resources in a budget item which was for an alley pilot project. And we used that to empower the PTA team to hire a contractor over the wintertime and have them focus on the first aspect of this program, which is clearing alleys.
 This is just a quick picture. Unfortunately, we don't have very good pictures because most of this work was done over the wintertime and so we don't have much leaves of the creek. But just some before and after of the type of work the contractor did over the wintertime. They were able to get into some of these alleys. We raided alleys throughout the city.
 under a condition that you're able to come over there with some of the salaries that were not passable, some were passable, and the ones that just needed some minor work. So with this effort, we contracted with a local contractor and directed them to focus on some of the higher priority areas. They did just six, two, three, four, and five.
 following pages of the work that's been completed to date. So District 2 and 3, the alleys are marked in different colors just to show the different condition of the valley that this work has been completed. Next slide. And in 4 and 5, you can see some work that's already been completed. Next slide.
 Districts 1 and 6 is now continuing the system work that we are undertaking this year. So we will be working either with the same contractor or according to the outgiven contractor to begin the work. One of the challenges we face is also contractor capacity, as far as I'm quite familiar with.
 So the best time to do some of this work has been during the wintertime when landscapers and land-saving contractors have a little bit more capacity. So we're trying our best to get some of this work started this summer, but it may be a little bit later than that because then there are contractors up late. Next slide.
 The second aspect of our pre-prod approach was the cleanup effort. And this is some information provided by Neighborhood Services Enforcement. And they state that they have, still they conducted about 16 neighborhood cleanups. And that's about twice the number that they have done last year. So it's about eight.
 cleanups done in neighborhoods across the city. And these cleanups do include more than just alleyways. When they conduct a cleanup with volunteers in neighborhoods, they are gathering folks, families, to help out and clean everything from public right-of-way, free lawns, vacant lots, alleys, and just anything in those areas. So it does include more than alleys. However, over this time,
 starting January, the NICU's report collecting over 300,000 pounds of litter and trash in our neighborhoods, which is a significant amount. Cleanup that's been already completed and the Labor Services Service has plans to do a lot more to shoot. Next slide.
 And then the third aspect of our alley assessment and cleanup work was regarding some of the greatest NDPs. We received over 200 requests over the winter, and the crews have started to prioritize the
 Those requests, again, based on the condition information that they have and are in the process of grading those throughout the city. We have four areas in the city that we divide the city into. So the crews cover area one, which is the northwest side, and then they go to the northeast and southeast and southwest. So they are going around the city grading alleys based on the conditions.
 We also increased our capacity thanks to the funding that Council provided. We have purchased a new grader. We're in the process of purchasing it. Again, you know, vehicles for children has been a challenge. The grader is not expected to arrive until the end of the year, so the additional grading work that we have talked about will likely occur next year when we have the new grader come in.
 And then the third part of this assessment is we have contracted with a company called Speedlogic that is going to do a much stellar job of speed assessments, speed assessments, sidewalk assessment, and alley assessments. So that work is underway. We have information on the speed assessment, the sidewalk, and alley assessment. Again, this information was provided to our office who did give us
 I hope more data will be able to address some of the areas of the need. I believe that's the end of my presentation. I'm happy to open any questions. Thank you so much, Ms. Haynes, for that presentation. I know that you guys have been working diligently and appreciate you taking the time to meet with the face-to-face community.
 Council's person, a wife, because I know this was her push for a long time, and you guys have been particularly meeting with us and talking about a pilot program, and to make sure that we are moving forward with it and the work that's been begun. Thank you for taking the time to come and give us an update, because I know that most people may not even know or realize the work that has been taking place behind the scenes.
 and I've been working through this process for quite some time. With that being said, I will go down the line. I also will start with Councilor White for any comments that you may have.
 I'd like to thank the Department of Public Works staff in terms of working at the Pre-Start of Planning Program. As some of you might be aware, the Residential Neighborhoods Committee, one of our goals for the latter part of last year and for this year as well, is to start reviewing the Quality of Life Ordinances.
 One is the unlawful, uncontrolled dumping. And so we were just thinking about, I know that's going to be time consuming. There's a lot of work that needs to be done moving forward, but I thought that it would be kind of interesting to come up with a pilot program because we have received requests and concerns about the dumping that's happening within our alley, so I appreciate
 the way with your department. I can bring this pilot program, and a number of our programs that we do have in place now started from a pilot program. So I'm very excited, very thankful and grateful to your division and also the staff for moving this forward. And I can't wait to see what the results are.
 Thank you. That's a lot more than you can have any questions or comments. Just a quick question. Maybe for your presentation, could you remind us how many miles of alley do you have for that? So that's one of the data points that we're going to be gathering through the street lighting assessment. Through... We have 1,200 miles of street in the city. That data is verified by the GIS. The alley data is...
 close to um i'd say 100 miles but again that's greater than i can confirm once we complete all these logic we don't have very accurate information about you know gns systems thank you warning
 Anthony? Yes. Thank you for the presentation, and we're so excited about being in the . What's... There's some allies that, because of some that are paid, some that have had asphalt put on, and then there's some that are just...
 How do we smooth out those alleys, or what will be the process for that? I guess there are maybe three types of alleys in the city. The predominant alley types are gravel alleys, because the city's policies do not have paved alleys. We, as you know, have difficulty funding the paving and the recading of streets.
 due to the number of streets that we have. So we do grading of alleys, which also helps with the grade of alleys and have good grade of alleys. The other type of alleys we have are brick alleys, those are predominantly in the downtown. And then you have a handful of asphalt alleys.
 THE BREAK ALLIES IN THE DOWNTOWN OR CONCRETE ALLIES IN THE DOWNTOWN WHEN THEY'RE IN AN ISSUE WE HAVE TO WORK WITH PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP PATCHING.
 As part of the pilot, we are also looking at ways where residents who do want to, say, pave an alley and are able to do so, how they might come together and fund the paving of an alley, and if there's a partnership that the city can have, for example, providing drainage to a dry well, how we might do that. So we are studying an option to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you for the presentation and one more thank you for the work on working on this project. This is, I guess, a bit of a continuation from but nothing I believe. There's a couple of valleys that I'm familiar with in the my district that are on a hill. So every time they get pretty good rain, just
 different watches out into the street and he's very good about coming back and doing it if that is
 No, that's a great question. That question has come up about crews having to be aware of those issues. And if not, certainly worthwhile for crews to keep going back and seeing if there's a gray valley, especially the ones that have different elevations.
 So we are looking at that as one of the issues, and maybe that those alleys have to have low permanent type solutions that could be changing with asphalt or some other material. So that is part of our discussion. Yes, I have a report to a lot of us. I didn't say too precise in this. I've heard that more times than I can count.
 It would be nice to have that policy and program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, so we have over 200 requests currently that our CREs are currently addressing. We have a greater... We are purchasing a second grader. So one grader is already out and about, and they are progressing the priority CREs tally. The second grader has been ordered, except it will take time due to some of the supply chain issues that Vehicle Procurement is taking. Once we have the second grader...
 Starting next year, we should be able to be more aggressive in grading, hopefully twice the volume. Right. The question is, is there a list? Because I'm going to get a phone call, come August or September, my audio has not been graded. And I would hate to say, well, I don't know. Right?
 So, it's best that I'm armed with the proper information so that if I do receive a phone call, I can say, hey, this is what's going on and you are on the list, definitely make sure because you help purchase that thing. You help purchase another greater. That's what's happening. Yeah, I can certainly work with our solution provider, list the values that are being made of this year. Okay, that would be great. I appreciate that. And as far as the speed assessment,
 And we were, you know, talking earlier about another policy matter that just came up. I do understand that people need consequences, humans need consequences for much undesirable behavior. We could be bunked out on both streets because we want folks to stop being in residential neighborhoods, or everywhere, right?
 I'm not necessarily a strong supporter of C-Bump because I just send the traffic to another location. What I am in support of is folks receiving tickets from risk departments saying, hey, you can't do this over here or anywhere for that matter.
 Is that part of the discussion when we've got law speed assessments and people breaking the law when it comes to... Because there has to be a consequence. There's no consequence to a bunch of being in the village.
 Yes, that's the number I just qualified. I meant street assessment. We're assessing the condition of the street alley inside. Okay. Sorry, not street. Okay. All right. Well, thank you again for your report. I've been looking forward to the way that you've provided for alleyways. Thank you, sir. I do have one question about the...
 I think on one of the slides you had the color coding of the Alexander Curly is that uploaded on the city website also or?
 No, that is still an internal document. That's an internal assessment done by us. We will just show the values that are in the Commission, from where the Commission is accessible to people. So it's a 3 or 4 point assessment system. Like I mentioned, one of our projects this year is to get a more technical and unbiased assessment through StreetLogix. Once we have that submission, we will post that online. Thank you so much.
 I APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION. I APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION. I APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENTATION. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. NOW I'D LIKE TO ENTERTAIN NOW I'D LIKE TO ENTERTAIN NOW I'D LIKE TO ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO RESIGN A MOTION TO RESIGN A MOTION TO RESIGN THE CIVIC COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE. THE CIVIC COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE. THE CIVIC COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE. THE MOVE IS SECOND. THE MOVE IS SECOND. THE MOVE IS SECOND. ALL IN FAVOR? ALL IN FAVOR? ALL IN FAVOR? ANY OPPOSITION? ANY OPPOSITION? ANY OPPOSITION? MOT
 IN ADDITION, YOU WILL HEAR FROM THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE COMMITTEE WHERE THE BILL WAS DISCUSSED AND THE RESULTS OF THEIR DISCUSSION. IF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE IS A ZONING ORDINANCE, A REPORT FROM A STAFF MEMBER WILL BE GIVEN. IN ALL OTHER SITUATIONS, THE FORMAL PRESENTATION OF THE FORMAL ORDINANCE WILL IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THE COMMITTEE REPORT. THE FORMAL PRESENTATION SHALL BE UNTIED. SIR, WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE BILL 2123 A SECOND REASON?
 21-23, public hearing on the ordinance of the common council of the city of South Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located on 1301 and 1305 Elroy Avenue, council managers would never want to be in the city of South Indiana. Thank you, sir. Can I get a report? Yes, sir. This is a report from the annexation and they come to us to see if they were the safer for us.
 We're glad that the position of the United States your name and address there was a few points regarding the bill that is before Farming question is located at 1301 between oh prize. Oh, what Avenue? These parties are currently in one or the neighborhood long primarily our single-family district They're looking to resound those and the new center district and
 The property owner also owns and controls the two properties at the hard corner of Elwood and Portage. With this resuming and the allocation which they are pursuing, they would be able to consolidate all of these lots for one development lot they had to build on. The site is currently vacant. The site has been vacant for quite some time, and the allocation procedure in the future will be what they're going to do in the future.
 The proposed development would be a multi-tinted commercial development that serves the neighborhood in this area. The neighborhood center district was designed just for that. You'll see a neighborhood retail center and service center in the neighborhood. And the proposed layout sort of meets those development standards that the building is oriented at the street and pedestrian friendly way. The parking is kind of de-emphasized and it's really a community corridor.
 the companies in the same commercial with the same recommendation when the stationary is neutral. Thank you, Nancy. My name is Pervene Bharati, and I'm the President and Chief Investment at American Medicine. Our company is registered and located in West Passier, Indiana. So, as I already described, all the demographics
 the standard of doing the regulations and all the features in the past. I hope everything is there, I believe we can start an experimental job in you know, in the future. I'm here that we are building the services and the vehicles. If you have any questions, I will be here.
 COUNCILMAN, DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER? WE HAD A VERY EXTENSIVE CONVERSATION WITH MR. CLARKE. AND IF THERE'S NO QUESTIONS, AT THIS TIME, WE'LL GO TO THE PUBLIC HEARING PORTION. CLEAR. DOES ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WISH TO BE IN FAVOR OF BILL 2123? YES, DON'T WANT ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC TO HAVE TO EXPRESS THEIR NAMES. DOES ANYONE WISH TO BE IN FAVOR OF BILL 2123?
 Is there anyone present which is speaking out position? At this point the public hearing on bill 21 23 is now closed Council members with anybody like to make them safe woman Mr. Gaudi, I thank you for your investment in our community and thank you especially for working with the city to fix your Plans here that really can fit. I
 I have my assistant, Mr. Foster-Mello here. And if you guys have any questions, you can report them to us. Thank you. I would like to say that a few months ago he came before us and what he wanted to put there, we voted it down because we wanted to have something that would uplift the community.
 Instead of him being bitter, he went back, said our words, resounded with them, and he's coming back and put $1.4 million investment in the first district on the corner of Portage and Elwood. The corner of Portage and Elwood. So I am excited. Thank you for listening. Thank you for coming back to do something at a greater scale. And we believe that this is going to be a spark.
 help renovate this area. And at this time, I would be willing to entertain a motion regarding Bill 2123. 2123. All right, just a motion and a second. Uh, can we do that? Clerk Jones, please give a girl. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Councilmember White? Councilmember Gordon? Aye. Councilmember Harris? Aye.
 As President of the Council, Council Member Davis, President of the Council, I stand on the floor. Bill 21-23 will be sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Bill 24-23 has been tabled. Clerk Jones, would you please give 25-23 a second reading.
 2523. Another hearing on the awarding of the Common Council of the City of South San Jose approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zonal Fields for the property located at 1436 Bowman, Councilman of District Number 3, Minnesota of South San Jose. Alright, so there's a major report.
 Yes, Chair. Bill number 2523, two before zoning and annexation this afternoon and coming to us, it begins with a favorable recommendation.
 The property of 14 days of Roman and the properties from the petitioner's home. They are seeking a new experience around for urban agriculture.
 Because they're ordinance, we made great strides in allowing for community gardens and all of our new events to be in the courts, private at least, from the urban agriculture. And some of these grants would allow for the continued use of them for growing the vegetables for private individuals. This comes to you from the board of the sales of the sample recommendation and processing
 Ms. Blanchette, anything else? No, it's just that gardening is very important for our homeschool, our preschool classroom. We have worked in community gardens eight years prior to beginning here, so it's close to us, and we were very much in connection with this between watching garden parks. I don't remember if you have any questions. I mean, we did a lot of testing, and we had findings during the community meeting.
 Um, at this time, clerk, general, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of bill 4523? There's no one from the rest of the audience that's second with just speaking in favor of bill 4523. Is there anyone who's wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing of bill 25-23 is not closed. Councilman, would you like to make any statements? I think it's going to be in the...
 All right. Anybody else? If not, thank you for investing in your neighborhood and growing vegetables. I appreciate that. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 25-23. I'll second. I'll second the motion. I'll second. Personals, please call the roll. Number one. All right.
 member west All right bill 25.23 will be sent to the full council with favor of recommendation
 Bill 27-23 has been tabled until July 24th. Third zone, please give Bill 28-23 a second reading. 28-23. Summit hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council to the City of South Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance approximately located at 735 and 737 Cleveland, House of Man in District Number 2, in the City of South Indiana. I will.
 I'll make a motion. Okay. Uh, here are still, uh, got to say the plan is 3930 133 46 46 37 30 5 together. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Click on recall roll. Council member West. Council member West. Thank you. We can do my affirmation. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposition? All right. The ayes have it. Thank you.
 I'd like to know more of this. Hold on. You want me to? Yes. Oh, okay. Yes, we have a report from the committee. Yes, all of the votes mentioned in the motion comes to us with a favorable recommendation from the MLA. All right. We have a first one.
 I will. I'm going to read them all. Okay. All right. But don't read them all. Okay. So, Red 48-23, 29-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 752 Cleveland, 1216 and 1218 Ann Deere, Council Address District Number 1 in the City of South Indiana.
 3023, Cousins and Young People are in ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 901 and 905 Brown Avenue, Councilman Address District Number 2 in the City of South Indiana.
 31.23, public hearing on the warnings of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for properties located at 909 and 911, Charming County District Number 1 to the City of South Indiana.
 32.3, I'm returning on accordance with the Common Council of the City of South Indiana. I'm moving the zoning ordinance for property located at 9-0-6 and 9-10, Longdale, Councilman, and District Number 2 in the City of South Indiana.
 33.23, public hearing on the awarding of the Common Council in the City of South Indiana, amended the Zone Award for Property, bill 30.816, the 8.2 law deal, complemented with the number 2 in the City of South Indiana.
 3423 public hearing on the ordinance of the common council of the city of south state indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 744 and 746 cleveland councilman which is number one in the city of south state indiana
 3623, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property law to be added. 809 and 813, Friedman, Councilman, District Number 2 in the City of South Indiana. 3723, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property law to be added. We have accepted that. 435.3.
 and also 38.6. Okay. Okay, so 37.3 again? Oh, okay. Yeah. So, okay. Those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those in opposition? Aye. And so, 2 plus 30. That one did not exist. Okay.
 37.3. Council's hearing on a ordinance of the Common Council to sue the Southland-Lyndon community is only in ordinance for property located at 1215 and 1217 Badge Yard, Councilman Address 2, and 2 of Southland-Lyndon.
 38.3, public hearing on the awarding of the Common Council for the City of South Indiana. Amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1202 South Lafayette, Councilman and District Number 2 in the City of South Indiana. All right. And once you all are ready to go into the room and audience, you know, there will be a big group of properties, and so we're able to validate all of them, all the reasons. Now she's going to make the presentation for us.
 Thank you.
 I think one of my next tasks as a roommate is to find a way to clear these all this morning, so that's where I'll do those things without a teacher. The positions before you, all except for the class on October 2nd, Lafayette, are all looking to go through the U1 or Neighborhood 1 district to U2. The reason for that request is to allow for more flexibility in the income tax project that we proposed.
 So those may be these lessons and I think one of the instances where it's a little bit larger space and I tried to do a type class.
 and allow those for the low-income housing that the federal opposition is looking for. This last property, folder 2, is to go from high-industrial to U3, so if you're U3, this is our slightly higher-density residential district. This would allow for the construction of the apartment complex, the location.
 All of these were reviewed by the Commission and come to you with a favorable recommendation. Mr. Molnar is here to explain a little bit more about the project and how it's being implemented. Thank you, Councilman Molnar. I'm the project development manager for the County City Building.
 As Angela stated, all these redonings are related to the low-income housing tax credit applications that the city is working with two applicants this year to apply for the state program for this year's round. The first applicant that we're working with, and that's the majority of the sites, considering redoning today, is the Bank of Development Corporation, which is a nonprofit development company.
 GROUP OUT OF EVANSVILLE INDIANA THEY'RE SUPPOSING 50 HOUSING UNITS SCATTERED OVER 37 CURRENTLY OWNED SITES ALL OF THOSE 50 HOUSING UNITS WOULD BE AT THE AFFORDABLE INCOME RESTRICTION LEVELS USING SOUTHLAND PRE-APPROVED BUILDING PLANS AND 12 AND A HALF TO 14 MILLION
 $1 million investment into all currently vacant city-owned properties. The second applicant we're working with is KCG Development of Indianapolis. This is a one-site location, 50-unit apartment building, again, all affordable, has a 12-02 South Lafayette property that Angela showed you. Those would be specifically for the 65 and up age group. And that is also a $12.5 million investment
 This is diving a little bit more into the overall Advantage Project. That's going to be split between the 30%, 50%, and 80% affordable state of the area and median income. 17 of those properties are in the second district. This will take about 17 new housing units, and 20 of the properties are in the first district, which should be about 33,000 units approximately.
 Uh, neighborhood-wise, this, uh, private will touch a large portion of the Northwest and West side neighborhoods, including Eagle Grove, LaFrance Park, the East End Area, Kennedy Park, and, uh, a primer, a large percentage of the properties are in the Northwest area.
 HERE IS A MAP OF THE ENTIRE NEAR NORTHWEST NEIGHBORHOOD SITE LOCATIONS EXCEPT FOR THE LARGE SITE ON THE NEAR NORTHWEST MARIAN AS WELL AS THE TWO PROPERTIES JUST NORTH OF CITY CEMETERY HOWEVER NOT ALL THOSE PROPERTIES NEED TO BE KNOWN AS YOU SEE HERE AND THAT ONE IN YELLOW ON THE WHITE BROWN THOSE ARE PROPERTIES THAT YOU WANT TO ANGLE SPOKESWOMAN THAT ARE STARTING TO BE DONE IN THE NEXT TO ALLOW FOR THAT MOST MOST OF THE BUILDINGS DO FLEX IT ON THE SITE
 But some of the properties are already zoned, so allow for that for those who do not need re-zoning. The other scattered sites throughout the city, these will all be single-family, single-family glowing units. There's no single-family house, so these do not require any zoning action by council, but I did want to show them to you just in the sense that we're going to be filling, if this project is approved by the state, we'll be filling vacant lots across a large portion of the city.
 And then the one large site is the Lincoln Way West and Marion site that the city has held. This is held by the Redevelopment Commission. All the other sites are held by the Board of Public Works, but again, all are owned by the city.
 one thing we're really excited for for the advantage project is that they pledge to use all pre-approved south end building plans that their plans put together at the direction of city planning staff and make sure that houses the developers are building in our city if they so desire really fit in with the neighborhood character where we don't stand out but they make
 more attractive and well-designed, especially on a low-income housing tax certified by CISP. It's great to see that these houses will be not only affordable, but also attractive and well-built for these high-resistance neighborhoods. This is the site's plans based on both 809 and 813 Cleveland, traditional keeping close to the property line like other properties in the neighborhood and parking off the alleys.
 if you'd like to see uh the variety of different housing choices that advantage will be able to choose from as you can go to stop that neighborhood infill a web page on the city club site which has a variety of different uh free approved site plans or three group housing plans that are available in the new project um apg like i said is the other uh housing developer that we're working with this is personal 50 000 units on one site
 at the age of 25 and up. As Todd told us earlier, that's actually going to be the 50, 50 and 30% area median income ratio that they'll be using. This is just south of downtown, at 1202 South Lafayette. This is owned by the Redevelopment Commission, and would be approved at $12.5 million investment.
 THE SITE IS CURRENTLY TO THE EAST OF THE FRANCE FLO HUB AND IT'S JUST TO THE NORTH OF INDIANA AVENUE WHERE THE LONGLAR DEMOCRAT START THE CITY HAS OWNED THIS SITE FOR ABOUT 15 16 YEARS AND IS CURRENTLY VACANT THIS IS A GOOD SITE FOR A LARGER BUILDING THEY'RE PROPOSING A FOUR-STORY APARTMENT BUILDING ON THE PROPERTY WITH THE PARKING LOT BEHIND THE BUILDING
 Before I let the developers come and give a little bit of talk, this one's a breakdown for what's to come on these projects. So we're dealing with council items, end of June and beginning of July, the resumings of the taxes, they've had purchase agreements by the Board of Public Works and RDC with the employee. Applications must be submitted by the end of July and then the foreman awarding is in that December.
 Hi, my name is Todd and I'm the Vice President of Development for KPG Companies in Indianapolis, Indiana. We're excited about the potential project in South Bend. As was stated earlier, it would be a combination of 60%, 50%, and 30% AMI rent.
 uh focused on seniors 55 and over um if you have any other questions that you have to address them uh broker business manager for nancy's local corporation uh likewise very excited to uh this market and uh it's been a long process looking forward to building a very nice project in this community
 We've used the model, at least we've chosen, like I said earlier, it's very common for us. We've done it a couple times, very successful. It provides a lot of value to the community, especially when there's so many sites that you're adding, getting out of the divided neighborhoods and then taking those vacant lots and putting the new portable housing back on in. It's really a good model that's proven to be very effective. So, if you have any additional questions, feel free to ask.
 Councilmember, do you have a question? Sure, I have a question, um, Mr. Council. Um, is this... Look, I, um, did my bit of reading, so I'm jumping to things. But this particular development, this was through, um, the housing authority of Vanderbilt County. Did I read that correctly? Vanderbilt, that's Vanderbilt County, so I don't know if you know who he is.
 And BASIC is the development and construction arm of the Evansville Housing Authority. We are owned by the housing staff. We are a spinoff. It's basically the parent company, but we are our own individual organization. We just allow under federal code, the code of training session, so I get that. Okay, so, okay, thank you.
 So, while if this is the case, and I'm not because I celebrate it, but if this was open to that type of development, because I understand what the corporation is aligned to with federal code and tax credits, etc.,
 Was there any opportunity, I think this is probably Mr. Holden or anyone else, or were there any opportunities out there that our local housing authority would have an opportunity to participate due to the fact that they do have the same type of capacity and obviously more units?
 That's a great question. Thank you. So, I don't want to get too far into the weeds, but one of the reasons why the basics exist and Brandon will probably share some of this is HUD over the last couple of decades has undergone a number of rad conversions of housing authority, public housing units, turning those teams to non-profit homes, project-based homes,
 project-based voucher units. And the reason for that is typically an underlying benefit for the organization as far as the per-unit payout from CODIS.
 I'm writing that book as well, Brandon. So that explains the birth of Advantech, but they moved into the space of developing LIHTC around the state of Indiana. So in the LIHTC world, we're talking about very competitive application process. And really, in any given year, there
 Most of the developers that are selected are developers that have successfully developed LIHTC projects in Indiana in the past. So, Advancic is an example of that. ATG is an example of a company that successfully competes for LIHTC credits in other states and now is able to compete in Indiana again.
 The South Bend Housing Authority, yes, if they do create a nonprofit development arm, they could become eligible to compete either as an entity themselves or partner with a developer for a low-income housing tax credit project.
 That's one route that we've looked at in partnership with them when thinking about future redevelopment of the Rabbi Shulman block. We believe the best option there is instead to apply directly for a Choice Neighborhood
 from HUD, a different program, but also a HUD funding program. I hope that's helpful. We did. We did, right. And so there are a lot more questions, and I'm not going to get into all of those questions. But it will be to our benefit, to our credit, to keep our money local. And if we have the device that's there, but it needs some fine tuning, some oil, perhaps some guidance, it will behoove us not to engage that foot.
 I mean, obviously this deal was done and it's a great thing and I appreciate the investment, but after reading through what I did and getting it back together, I understand that that is what it is. And I just can't see a future development being against the South End if South End can't participate and get the benefits of development when it first starts.
 Thank you. I think South Bend will be able to participate and will have residents have in these units that are income qualified. So there would be direct benefits for the residents of South Bend. I'm talking about a job, you better like that. I'm talking about the job. I'm talking about those two unemployed people. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about, you know, subsidized housing for people who can't make it and pay the rent. Small jobs.
 It developed through public RFP. Most of these sites were there. These were mostly held by the Re-development Commission, and they put out an RFP on FAC where it was open to anyone from the public to make proposals. These two proposals were two of the proposals that really jumped in as being particularly attractive. But it wasn't...
 while these are great companies and I'm not saying that we should reach out to them, that's not how this happened. This happened as we've made these available to the public and they don't say that this is an opportunity and we like to partner with them. What you're asking, Mike, is if our dam would have this. What I'm saying is that the development is intentional.
 You know that, I know that. There's a business plan that goes in place. The city of South Bend basically runs its own business, the city of South Bend. Before I finished with the Senate State of Dallas, we knew that the South Bend housing authority had a problem years ago. They were even raided by the federal government.
 So what I'm saying is because we do have a housing crisis, because we're now 6,000 affordable housing units, because of all these things that are going on, and knowing that the housing authorities here locally are taking on the same challenge, why wouldn't we, as elected leaders of this city, very clearly,
 be sure that our dollars, that $6, needs to stay here locally by making sure that these devices were well underway working for what these gentlemen are doing. I can't take this back. I'm not trying to stand in front of it. I'm just saying this is a missed opportunity. And I don't want to hear that the RIP wasn't answered by a sovereign. They can answer.
 If there was no way the thousand house authority could answer that, right? That's why they were able to jump in because they knew I had the word of law to handle it. What I am saying is that if our tools are employed properly, we can answer the call. One of the biggest issues that we often hear about is a thousand house and thousand days, and this is a way to answer and bring those empty lots back to the
 back online. And he missed the point you said. Hold on. Oh, that has nothing to do with that. No, no, no. This is a separate conversation. No, but what I'm saying is this, Mr. Davis, is that we complain about these lots not being developed. And we put out an RFP. And these are the people who have responded. They're going to spend $14 million on one group and then $12.5 million to bring our lots back to,
 back online so that we can have affordable housing happening. And the tax credit projects are very competitive. And so you want to make sure the right people are at the table so that if they're awarded, these are the people who are able to do it. And as we're moving forward and trying to
 bringing these units online, it made sense for the people who have the capacity to do
 That's not what I was doing there. I'm not saying that... What I will argue... I want you to understand what I'm saying. This is a problem. You're not hearing me. I am saying that we have the same capacity to do what these gentlemen are doing. And I am saying that when the conversation came up a few years ago, when I had tried to actually open up an AHA committee to help develop more of a relationship with our private housing authority,
 to ensure that the money that are seen here locally are seen here locally, so we have a healthier economy. Those things were not employed. Those things were not used. And so here we are. I'm not against what you gentlemen are doing. I applaud when I am saying to you and to anyone else that's listening to me is saying that we have the tools to do this for ourselves and we keep lifting the market and now we're going to get it done. And that's just the message that we know.
 I'm not going to argue about that. Thank you all for your interest and ability to help stop this. So we'll have another discussion on that at another time. All right. Is there anyone from the public wish to speak in favor of all of these bills that have gone before us? There's no one from the public that has been present. And just to give you a little bit of how these bills
 Hi, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in our position? There's no one from the public. The president is speaking in our position as well. At this point, the public hearing can be on the 8th, 23rd, 29th, 33rd, 33rd, 31st, 23rd, 32nd, 23rd, 33rd, 23rd, 34th, 23rd.
 36, 23, 37, 23, and 38. Substitute Bill 38, 23, and substitute, yeah. Substitute Bill 37, 23, and substitute Bill 38, 23 is now closed. Anything else?
 I just wanted to thank the developers for their investment in South Bend. I also want to thank all the people involved from the development, from planning, from zoning. This was a very creative, out-of-the-box concept for the scatter site, and I'm
 I remember the meeting from when we started that RFC where it was really open and we weren't sure what was going to come out of that. And there was just a tremendous amount of work done from the city side to just be open minded and creative to make this happen. And then again, some of the developers who stepped up with some great ideas and have made this a reality. So I just want to express appreciation for everybody involved in this. Thank you. At this point, I'm going to entertain a motion for...
 2823. All right. There is no motion and second. First, don't please call the roll. Councilmember West. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Summers-Gloria. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice-President Gossett. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Rice. Aye. Nine-nine. All right. Bill 2023, will the Council approve a council or a favor recommendation?
 I would now entertain a motion for Bill 29-23. I'll move the bill forward to the federal board of trustees. Second. The second is to entertain a motion. And second, the first home school is called to roll. Councilmember White. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Harmon. Aye. Vice President DeSantis. Aye. Councilmember Deva.
 Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember Brown? Aye. 29-23 will be sent to the full Council's favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion for Bill 30-23. I move that we send Bill 30-23 to the full Council as a favorable recommendation. Second. I'll send a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Fuller-Twarden? Aye. Councilmember Helms? Aye. Vice President Luganski? Aye. Councilmember Ramis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Webb? Aye. Councilmember Weiss? Aye. Councilmember Grimes? Aye. Bill 30-23 will defend for the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion for Bill 31-23. Move to send forward the federal board of recommendations.
 I just want to motion to second. Clerk Holmes, please call the roll. Councilmember Cammons? Aye. Councilmember Sasson? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Puma-Fordy? Aye. Councilmember Brown? Aye. Bill 31, act 23 will go before them.
 Council of a vote like nation. What's on when you give bill 32? I mean I would not intend motion regarding bill 32 dash 23 Move that we find 32 that 23 days full council is a favorable recommendation But emotion in second, but don't sleep on world you
 Councilmember Ramirez? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Webb? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomah-Ford? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Councilmember Brown? Aye. Bill 32-23, we sent to the Board Council for the May rule recognition. I'll now intend to motion for Bill 33-23.
 SECOND. CONGRESSMAN, A MOTION AND SECOND. SO I DON'T SWITCH HER ROLE. COUNCILMEMBER GATES. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER ROOT. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WEINER. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WAPT. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WATTIES. COUNCILMEMBER TOMAS-FORDIN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. AYE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER TRUSSING. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER BRYANT. AYE. ALL RIGHT. BILL 33-23 WILL GO BEFORE FOUR COUNCILMEMBER
 I will now entertain a motion for bill 34-13. We'll move this bill forward with a favorable recommendation. We'll put a motion in the second. Senator Jones, please hold the roll. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Schumacher-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice-President McCluskey? Aye. Councilmember Rabin? Aye. Vice-President McBride? Aye.
 All right. Bill 34-23 will go before the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'm going to add a motion for bill 36-23. I'll descend 36-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. There's been a motion and a second. Correct. I'll move to the call roll.
 Councilmember Warren? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Wardy? Aye. Councilmember Hemmings? Aye. Vice-President Dostoevsky? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. President McGraw? Aye. No, no. Bill 35, 2020, bill 444, comment with a favorable recommendation. Um, now I make a motion for Substitution Bill 37-23.
 I'll extend Bill 37.3 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Motion and second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Forney. Aye. Councilmember Harris. Aye. Vice President Misalty. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember McGuire. Aye. I'll extend Bill 37-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 I will now entertain a motion for a substitute bill 38-23. Move to send substitute bill 38-23 to the full council with the favorable recommendation. Second. Motion is seconded. Clay Jones, please call the roll. Royce. Councilmember Tomah Gordan. Aye. Councilmember Herman. Aye. Vice President Miscaucus. Aye. Councilmember Davis.
 Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. President McBride? Aye. 9-0. But don't you see we give Bill 39-23, Secondary? I'm sorry. I would now entertain a motion to accept Subcommittee Bill 39-23. All right. And we will do that. Do you have a personal section? I did get a personal section.
 I second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed, aye. I second. Clerk, I would like to please give substitute bill 39-23 a second reading.
 3923, Coverage Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of Southwood, Louisiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2043. 110,654 from the general fund, number 101. 1,195,000 from the Parks and Recreation Fund, number 201.
 $56,000 FROM THE CENTRAL SERVICES FUND, NUMBER 222. $3,127,099 FROM THE LOCAL INCOME PACKED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND, NUMBER 048. $1 MILLION FROM THE PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT CONVENTION DEVELOPMENT AREA, NUMBER 413. $2,322,376 FROM THE 2018 CYPTH PARK FUND CAPITAL FUND, NUMBER 5.
 FUND CAPITAL FUND NUMBER 452, $1,482,530 FROM THE 2017 PARK FUND CAPITAL FUND NUMBER 471, $100,000 FROM THE PARKING GARAGES FUND NUMBER 201, $100,000 FROM THE SEWERS WORK OPERATIONS FUND NUMBER 641, AND $50,000 FROM THE SINCREASE PENSION CAPITAL FUND NUMBER 671.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Mr. Senator Teer, I have to state the name and answer, but is there a key point for the bill in front of us? Yes, Kyle, I'm a fiscal handler of County, City, and Views on the County's new building, Road 4. Sub-Suites Bureau, 2923, is on the second quarter additional appropriations.
 and what we have in front of you starting off is an appropriation of 46,730 dollars for the four times uh personal specialist we had in the finance department um positions were
 uh part of the 2023 budget but did not actually get president for that's what i've been requested for uh the president five thousand dollars for training services and accounting building also the credit we request for 56 000 services to purchase new saltwater for facility conditions conditions management that will allow some services to uh i said speaking on my assets
 in-house versus uh hanging out but it's just a third party to perform those services and it seems to act more quickly um making the change or getting us to assess those uh properties a lot faster uh uh baby parts north there's a location for twenty five thousand for the five music festival uh that will be held at howard park later next month
 Also, from the 15,500 to 100,000, we have a quotation for the $1,500 for the student contract, for all of the 15,500, and that $100,000 appropriation plan
 for the school and manual reimbursement program. That program has picked up some traction here recently. And for 2023, there was a $180,000 budget for this program. We have spent some funds and are requesting an additional $100,000 to allow more applicants to access this program.
 So, the appropriations supported by outside revenue, all of which are from Green Parks and Arts, there's $125,000 appropriation from the 2023 Riverline. Request fees are received from the National Endowment for the Arts, $1 million appropriation from donations received from the University of San Francisco, and $45,000 appropriation for donations received from Green Parks and Arts.
 The capital project from the LISC Economic Development Fund, a population of $127,000 by $9 for our neighborhood improvement projects, a $2 million appropriation for the Mayor's Pre-Program or pre-statement projects that were not included in the CUNE-Zoom Re-Budget, and then another $1 million appropriation for our housing board's Vacancy Detection Program.
 And there's a $1,000 appropriation from a PDA fund for design and engineering costs at Portland Field. That is from PDA. Appropriation of the appropriated remaining money from the 2017 tax-advantaged fund came out of $589,550.
 And the first one is the obligation of remaining $100,000 from the expropriation of gifts, plus bond capital in the amount of $1,250,000, $850,000. And then from the $150,000 capital fund, the obligation of $50,000 for water, salt and other things. Those are the second quarter additional quotations and the setup, again, answering the councilman's question.
 At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Quite known very much from the public, which is in favor of Substitute Bill 39-23. There's no one from the public, virtual public expression interested in the bill. Is there anyone present with an opposition? There's no one from the virtual public expression interested in the bill. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 39-23
 39-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to have any other statements or anything? If not, I will now entertain a motion to pardon and substitute Bill 39-22. 43. There's been a motion in the second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Thomas-Lorgens? Aye. Councilmember Hennins? Aye. Vice President Miscavige? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Webb? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Mesa? Aye. 9-9. Alright. Um, so 2039-23 will be sent to the Board Council with a favorable recommendation. Okay. What goes? What you give?
 Bill 40-23, a second reading. 40-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Main, Indiana for budget transfer for various departments within the City of South Main, Indiana for the year 2023. I'll hand the committee a report. Commissioner Peter, we ask that you state your name and address and share a few points regarding this bill's report. I'm Connor Lillard, president of the County City Living Trust Board.
 We have three which transfers from various departments. These transfers do not increase or decrease the overall budget. First, transfers from Park Maintenance to the community initiatives and VPAs to cover the FOA wages with that they have in force. And the Common Council transfers $74,000 from the C-12 and N-10 to the professional services and panels.
 Those funds were allocated to the accountants. They should have been in their professional creditors and that they were in their budget and for again, for the rest of you, uh, try to compare various accountants to their federal accountants because of their capital extension. Councilman, do you have any questions? If not, we're now going to the
 Public portion hearing. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 40-23? There's no one from the federal government that's expressing their strategic favor. Trustee Stegall. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition, Bill. At this time, the public hearing portion of Bill 40-23 is not closed. Councilman, would you like to make a statement?
 If not, I will entertain a motion. There's been a motion and a second, but don't please call the roll. Councilmember Herman? Aye. Council President D'Astin? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Gordon? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. President Dries? Aye. 9-0.
 Bill 40-23, this is the full council of the Fablewood station. I'd like to entertain a motion to accept Substitute Bill 41-23. All right. There's been a second. And, Clayton Jones, please, all in favor? Aye. Any opposed? I have it. Clayton Jones, please, we have Substitute Bill 41-23.
 41-3. 41-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Van and Am, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of the Executive Department of the City of South Van for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position.
 all right the committee report yes sir please give your name and address key points regarding the bill of progress hi what is the controller um county state of the 12th floor question bill 4123 the message is the non-boss uh line working positions and max salary uh establishes this uh full-time position on financial system specialists with a salary cap of 66.645 dollars
 Previously, this position was held by the Director of Accounting and Budget in the Indiana Finance Department. That position is no longer in our department. The person in that role left last year, and when that happened, we downgrew that role and spread our responsibility to the Director of State Finance and the Director of Treasury
 take home a little bit more responsibility in those and doing so we also changed that direction of the upcoming budget position to the county position so now as we move towards a new transition to the new hr system and payroll system we could this this role will be forward because right now the my deputy controller
 is now responsible for handling the issues that arise with BFO, which is our finance software system, that many employees across the city have been advised to use on a daily basis, and also the HR, the PCH rating system that we use.
 should be going on sometime next April. This will be making sure those systems function normally, but there's no downtime on our end or across the enterprise. And also, the innovation and technology department did a title change for one of our positions. Currently, that position is a specialist
 um with uh approval that uh time would change to webmaster i'm sure if you have any questions if not we'll go to public hearing portion uh clayton one christmas speak in favor let's go to bill 41 23.
 There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest. Is this in favor of Justice Bill 4123? Is there anyone speaking in opposition? There's no one speaking in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on the bill, on Justice Bill 4123 is now closed. Council members will make a statement. If not, I would entertain a motion.
 There's been a motion and a second. Clerk, don't you please call the roll. Vice President of Johnson. Aye. Councilman Davis. Aye. Councilman Marie. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Weiss. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Fornes-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Cummings. Aye. Councilmember Brown. Aye. Councilmember Brown. Aye. Hearing is adjourned.
 All right. Substitute Bill 4123, we request the whole council in favor of the recommendation. If not, don't. We plead to give 42-23 a second reading. I'm just hearing on a ordinance of the common council of the City of South Bay, Indiana, created for the 2023 fifth bond series, the capital fund, capital fund number 456. Is there a committee report? Yes, Senator Peter. We ask you to state your name and address. Is there a key point regarding the bill that's before us?
 Hi, I'm a left-handed controller, 10-2-0-20, 12-4.
 202.23, the creation of funds for the city. This fund is the fund that will have a bond for the city development authority. This is where all the bonds will be received. And this fund will also be the first one of the project costs that they come up with. Council members, if you have any questions, that will go to the public hearing portion.
 Is there anyone looking to speak in favor of Bill 42-23? Is there anyone from the public who is looking to speak in favor of this bill? Is there anyone looking to speak in opposition? There's no one looking to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 42-23 is now closed. The council members would like to make a statement, and if not, I entertain a motion.
 I move that we send bill 42-23 to the full councilor that they report recommendations. There's been a motion and second. Clay Dole, please call the roll. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Webb. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomac-Gordon. Aye. Councilmember Humming. Aye. Vice President of South East. Aye. Vice President of Central. Aye. Motion to approve the motion.
 Bill 42-23 will be sent to the Board Council with an April recommendation. And Bill 43-23 has been tabled to the light on the 24th. So, I'd like to entertain a motion to rise to the committee as a whole and report back to the Board Council. So, Ms. Cummings, I just remove the second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposition? Aye. That is it. Thank you.
 Council is now back in session. This is a portion of our meeting where bills were given a third reading and taking regarding bills that were heard from the committee as a whole. President Elms, will you please give bill 2143 a third reading?
 Yes. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1301 and 1305 Elwynn Avenue, Councilman District Number 1 in the City of South Indiana.
 Thank you, Councilor Lee. Is there a recommendation from the City to withhold regarding Bill 2123? Yes, 2123 was heard in the... If you can hold when it comes to the Council, whether it comes to the full Council, the State will recommend it. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2123. Second. We're going to move back to Councilor Harkin. The roll, please. Okay. Councilor Harkin, the roll, please. Councilor Manning, aye. Councilor Warner, aye. Councilor Black, aye.
 Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Councilmember Hynes. Aye. Council, the Vice President of Newcastle. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President DeGrasse. Aye. Nine-Nine. Thank you. Bill 21-23 is been adopted. Yes. Mr. Harding, will you please give Bill 25-23 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of South Bend, Indiana.
 Approving a petition for the advisory board of Stone and McGill to put by property located at 1436 Bowman, Councilmanic District Number 3, in the city of South Indiana. Thank you, Council. We have no recommendations from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 25-23. Yes, we have heard from the Committee of the Whole and come before Council with favorable recommendations. Thank you. I would now like to make a motion regarding Bill 25-23. The bill passes as 25-23.
 REGISTERED. THE MOVEMENT IS BEGINNED. MR. HARNEY, THE ROLL, PLEASE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WECK. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS-MORGAN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HEMMOND. AYE. AYE. PRESIDENT EASTCASKIE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER LEAD. AYE. PRESIDENT MCGRATH. AYE. NYE-NINE. THANK YOU. DEAL NUMBER 2523, ASSENTED OUT.
 Yes, ma'am. Third reading on ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 735 and 737 Cleveland, Council Manning District Number 2, the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation for an excrement hold regarding Bill 2823? Yes. The excrement hold comes before Council with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2823. Move the first pass, please. Second. We move the second. Mr. Harmon, the roll, please. Councilmember West. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Dizkowski. Councilmember Davis.
 council member ladies aye council member warner aye president mcbride aye nine nine thank you mr hardy will you please give bill 29 23 and third reading third reading on an ordinance common council signature south india amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 752 cleveland
 1216 and 1218 Ben-Huron, Councilman and District Number 1 in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Council. We have a recommendation from the committee as a whole regarding Bill 2923. 2923 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, I now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2923. Move for passage. Second. We move and second. Mr. Hardy, the roll please. Yes. Council Member Light. Council Member Thornock-Norbin.
 Councilmember Hemp. Aye. Vice President Dikotki. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nay. Aye. Thank you, Bill 2923, Senator Dawkins. Mr. Harney, will you please give Bill 3923, Senator Riggs.
 Third reading on importance for the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Committing zoning ordinance for property located at 901 and 905 Lane Avenue. Councilman of District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Councilor. We accept recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 30-23. 30-23 is a motion the Committee of the Whole and Council for full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 30-23.
 We will be sending Mr. Hardy the roll for him. Councilmember Tomas Martin. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nescafe. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember White. President McGraw. Aye. Nine aye. Thank you. Bill 30-23 for the adopted. Mr. Hardy, will you please give Bill 31-23 a third reading.
 THIRD READING ON ORDINANCE OF COMMON COUNCIL DEPARTMENT OF SOUTH INDIANA. AMENDING ZONING ORDINANCE FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT 909 AND 911 STRUMP COUNCILMEDIC DISTRICT NUMBER ONE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF SOUTH INDIANA. THANK YOU, COUNCILMEDIC. THERE'S NO RECOMMENDATION FOR THE STADIUM OF THE WHOLE DEGREE OF 31-23.
 31-23, we heard of the new whole that comes to the full council with available recommendations. Thank you, Reverend Allen. We'll entertain a motion regarding Bill 31-23. Move for the motion. The move is seconded by Senator Wilson. Yes. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Haskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. 9-0. Bill 31, Act 23, is an adoption. Mr. Harms, will you please give Bill 32, Act 23, a third reason?
 Yes. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending zoning ordinance for property located at 906 and 910 Lawndale, Councilmanic District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Council, we have a recommendation from the committee to hold the Garden Bill 32-23. Yes. 32-23 comes to the Board Council as a favorable recommendation. And we're now going to take a motion to the Garden Bill 32-23. Move to pass.
 We move to second. Mr. Hardy, the roll, please. Aye. President McCaffey. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warren. Aye. Councilmember West. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. President McGrath. Aye. 9-0. Thank you. Bill 32-23 has been adopted. Mr. Hardy, will you please give Bill 33-23 a third reading?
 Third, reading up on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending the zoning ordinance of property located at 816 and 822 Lawndale, Councilman in District Number 2 of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Council, we need a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 33-23. That's referred to the Committee of the Whole when it comes to the full Council's favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 33-23.
 Second. The moving segments. Mr. Hardy, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warren. Aye. Councilmember Black. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McCaskey. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Bill 33, dance 23, is presented for adoption. Aye. Mr. Hardy, will you please give Bill 34, dance 23, a third reading.
 Third, ring on an ordinance of the town council in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Amending zoning ordinance for property located at 744 and 746 Cleveland, Councilman District Number 1 in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Councilman, could I accept your offer of the day? Yes, sir.
 Uh, the City of South Bend, Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 744 and 746 Cleveland. Council Member, this is District Number 1, the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Council Member, please don't forget to submit your statement. I'm learning. Thank you. Council Member, may I get a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 34-23? 32% of 22-23 was deferred in the Committee of the Whole and now comes a full Council of the State of the World recommendation.
 I WOULD NOW ANNOUNCE A MOTION REGARDING BILL 34-23. WE MOVE TO SECOND. MR. HARPER, THE ROLL, PLEASE. COUNCILMEMBER LEAD. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WEST. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER TOMAS-MORGAN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. AYE. VICE PRESIDENT MCCASKIE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. AYE.
 President McBride. Aye. Nye, aye. Bill 34, Act 23, for the adoption. Mr. Harding, will you please give Bill 36, Act 23, a third reading. Third reading on ordinance of the County Council in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending zoning ordinance for property located at 809 and 813 Cleveland Complementary District No. 2 in the City of South Bend.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the City of Hall regarding Bill 36-23? Yes, 36-23 comes before Council's available recommendation. Thank you. I will now listen to motion regarding Bill 36-23. Second. So moved and seconded. Mr. Harney, the roll, please. Councilmember Warren? Aye. Councilmember White? Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomah Smarton?
 Councilmember Hammonds. Aye. Vice President McCaskey. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McGraw. Aye. Nine-Nine. Thank you. Bill 36-23, been adopted. Mr. Hart, would you please give substitute Bill 37-23 a third reading.
 THIRD READING ON IMPORTANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BENNETT, INDIAN. ADMINIUM ZONING ORDINANCE OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT 1215 AND 1217 VAN BUEHN. COUNCILMANIC DISTRICT NUMBER TWO, THE CITY OF SOUTH BENNETT, INDIAN. THANK YOU. COUNCILOR LEE AND THEIR REGULAR DATA FROM THE COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE REGARDING DEAL 3723. YES, IT WAS ALL REGARDING COMMITTEE AS A WHOLE WHEN IT COMES TO WHOLE COUNCIL FAVORABLE RECOMMENDATIONS. I WILL NOW LISTEN TO ANYTHING AS WELL AS REGARDING DEAL 3723.
 THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
 Mr. Harding, would you please give the bill 38233. Third reading on an ordinance for the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Abandoning zoning ordinance for property located at 1202 Stockwell, PA. Council Manning, District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you, Councilor. Is there a recommendation from the Committee on the motion regarding the 38-23? Yes. Bill 38-23 will currently be in the Hall of Council of the four Councils with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 38-23. Mr. Chair, I will now entertain a motion. So, we'll second it. Mr. Hardy, the roll, please. Councilmember White, Councilmember Tomas-Martin, Councilmember Hammond, Aye. Vice President McFadden, Councilmember Dade.
 Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warren? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. President McGuire? Aye. 9-0. Thank you. Bill 3823 has been adopted. Mr. Hardin, will you please give substance to Bill 3923, third reading. Third reading on the ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 20,000.
 $110,654 FROM THE GENERAL FUND, NUMBER 101, $1,195,000 FROM THE PARK AND RECREATION FUND, NUMBER 201, $56,000 FROM THE CENTRAL SERVICE FUND, NUMBER 222, $3,127,099 FROM THE LOCAL INCOME TAX,
 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND, NUMBER 408, $1,000,000 FROM PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CONVENTION DEVELOPMENT AREA, NUMBER 413, 2,322,376, 2018 FIT SPART FUND CAPITAL FUND, NUMBER 452, 1,482,530,
 THROUGH 2017 PARK BOND CAPITAL FUND NUMBER 471, 100,000 FROM THE PARKING GARAGES FUND NUMBER 601, 100,000 FROM THE SEWAGE WORK OPERATIONS FUND NUMBER 641, AND 50,000 FROM THE CENTRAL CENTER CAPITAL FUND NUMBER 671. THANK YOU.
 Councilor, we have a recommendation for the Committee to hold regarding Substitute Bill 39-23. Substitute Bill 39-23 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 39-23. Second. We're moving back in. Mr. Hardy to roll, please. Councilmember Solon-Smorgas. Aye. Councilmember Henderson. Aye. Vice President McFadden. Councilmember Davis.
 Councilmember Litt. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. President Mabry. Aye. Nayyan. Thank you. Bill 3923 for adoption. Mr. Harding, will you please give Bill 40-23 a third reading? Third reading on the ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South St. Indiana for the transfer of various departments within the City of South St. Indiana for the year 2023.
 Thank you, Councilor Lee. Is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 40-23? Yes, there is a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole. It comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 40-23. We'll move to the second. Mr. Hardy to roll, please. Councilmember Hammonds? Aye. Vice President Newkowski? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember West? Aye. Councilmember White?
 Council Member Tomas-Morgan. President McBride. Aye. Bill 49-23 has been adopted. Mr. Hardy, would you please give substitute Bill 41-23 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending ordinance number...
 1-0894-22, which visits maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments to be known as . This is up in calendar year 2023 to establish one full-time position
 Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the committee as a whole regarding Subsection C.C.O. 41-23? Subsection C.C.O. 41-23 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Subsection C.C.O. 41-23. Move for the second. Second. We're moving second. Mr. Hardy, the roll, please. President, Vice President Newcastle. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Lassiter? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Councilmember McBride? Aye. 9-9. Thank you. Bill 41-23 has been adopted. Mr. Hardy, will you please give Bill 42-23 a third reading? Third reading on Ordinance for the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, creating the 2023 Council of the City of South
 It's bond series capital fund number 456. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation for the committee of the whole regarding bill 42-23? 42-23 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second the motion regarding bill 42-23. Second. The motion is seconded. Mr. Harris, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis.
 Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member West. Aye. Council member White. Council member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. I have a question. The fugitive restrictions are different from what we heard earlier. I don't know that that matters. Creating the 2023 TIT Fund Series A capital fund
 The second reading drops to A. Is that Madeline? So there was a series A and a series B. Is that what my point is, Donna? Yeah. I believe it is the same. Series A. That's what I thought. So we should state series A in the second reading as well? I believe so, yes. I'm in favor of the motion to be collected. It looks like a photo there. You can just write it. Yeah.
 So it's not that big of a deal. It seems to be correct. For the record, we'll assume it's correct. Okay. I just want to point that out. My vote is aye. Thank you for pointing it out. It's been moved. It was entered. Yes. I'm wondering if we need to make a motion to correct that. I'd like to make a motion. She says she's still calling the roll. Vice President McCaskey. President McBride.
 Before I pass this, I will have you, Councilor Tola, to make a motion. Motion. Thank you. With the addition of Series A, Mr. Moulton seconded all in favor? Aye. And now we move to Secondary. With that, 22-23 has been adopted. Thank you. Now we're moving on to resolution. This is the portion of the Council meeting where Council
 This bill is filed as proposed resolution. The title of the proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the community chairperson understanding the need to deal with the reference for advisory review and recommendation is given. At this time, will you please give resolution 23-34-0. 23-34.
 2334, A RESOLUTION OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH SAN DIEGO, DESIGNATING 30 AREAS WITHIN THE CITY OF SOUTH SAN DIEGO COMMONLY KNOWN AS 1405 FORTH AND AVENUE SOUTH SAN DIEGO, 466.6, AN ECONOMIC REVOLUTION AREA FOR PURPOSES ON THE FIVE YEAR BILL PROPERTY PASSED TO BABY FOR PEAK INVESTMENT IN ASSETS AND ADVANCE ELEMENTS. THANK YOU. IS THERE A COMMITTEE REPORT? YES, SIR.
 So 23-34 was served this afternoon in community investment and comes to the program with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Thank you.
 INCREASES IN MY PRESENTATION TO SIR BONN FRUZE. IN SIR BONN FRUZE. IN SIR BONN FRUZE. HIS SEMINARY RESOLUTION HIS SEMINARY RESOLUTION HIS SEMINARY RESOLUTION FOR DELEMNING RAVEEN SKALATI FOR DELEMNING RAVEEN SKALATI FOR DELEMNING RAVEEN SKALATI PEAK INVESTMENT PEAK INVESTMENT PEAK INVESTMENT ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC. ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC. ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC. WE HEARD FRUZE'S OWN MADE WE HEARD FRUZE'S OWN MADE WE HEARD FRUZE'S OWN MADE ORDINANCE THAT HE IS PLANNING
 Mr. Scalati and his business, 5-year retail, real property tax evasion. Answer any questions you may have. In the description, it says 1405, Forty-Town, South Indiana, 466. It should be 46628. That would...
 CORRECT. I MAKE A MOTION THAT WE CORRECT THE CODE AND THE DESCRIPTION OF 466-1-6-4-6-6-2-8. I THINK THE MOVEMENT IS ALL IN FAVOR. ALL RIGHT. ANY OPPOSITIONS? SUMMON SUPPORT. MR. LANDOLPH, I THINK HE WAS SENDING A QUESTION. ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FROM COUNCIL AT THIS TIME?
 Yes, what is the use for the shopping center? I had the understanding that we're going to have a red shack that we're going to be putting there. Can you repeat that as your question? I was just asking what the use is, what use are you going to... The use I'm going to tell you is because I've heard that there's going to be a red shack in place there. I'm not sure though. There's no red shack. It's going to be, you know, in the first building.
 It is going to be a food service restaurant, and there will be a cafe shop, and there will be a physical therapy clinic, a grocery store, a barber shop, or some kind of any other retail will come along. Thank you, sir. Any other questions, sir? No, sir. We have a couple.
 at this time i will go to the public and then you want a department which is a speech in favor of resolution 23-34.
 466, 1 6 or 2 8? It's 1 6. Oh, it is correct. I'm curious. I thought that it was 466. It doesn't know. Well, how do you correct the Scrivener's motion to correct, to re-correct? Here we go. I'll make a motion that will go back to the original title. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
 Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carried. Thank you. At this time, I would like to hear anyone in the public wishing to speak in opposition to Resolution 23-24. There's someone from the virtual public that's expressing opposition. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn to my colleagues to see if there are any comments.
 I just want to say again that we're really grateful for the Michigan-London people and making improvements and something that's going to uplift the first district on that wooded floor. So, we really appreciate it. Thank you so much. Who's for the doctor? Morning, both. I have a vice president who's staffed the amnesty. So, clarification about the title. Is it a designated or a deck with floors? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 It's good, it's very good. To my knowledge, it's very good. Interchangeable. I'm looking at you, the major. There was a...in the writing, it said, as they named it, in the resolution from the city staff, it says, Declarate Court, and Mr. Gladwell said it's dependent. So we wanted to make sure, or we move forward, and everyone will be okay.
 Okay, with that, I will turn to my colleagues for a motion. Mr. Pleasant. Move for the motion. Second. Second. Move for the second in the roll, please. Councilmember West. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember McCormick-Loregon. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Dostoevsky. Aye.
 Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Reed? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. President Imbrogno? Aye. Senator? Aye. Thank you. Resolution 23-34 is adopted. President Johnson, will you please give Resolution 23-35 a read?
 2335, the resolution of the Common Council of South Indiana designated 30 areas within the City of South Indiana commonly known as Provo 2, South Lafayette Boulevard, South End, Indiana Port District 24, and Hagan Island Revitalization Area for purposes of a 10-year real property classification for safety through Trump Union LLC. Thank you. Are there any committee reports?
 I resolution 23-35 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'm Dr. Bob. This is a temporary resolution for the LIHTC project by ATG companies and all of these for a 50-unit low-income building located at the corner of Boston and New South Wales.
 We're actually targeting not exceeding 60% AMI, 12 and a half million dollars of private investment as we've heard before, as we've put the filming in many, many earlier today, mostly one of the projects that's specifically supporting this abatement included in the city support package that's included in the application.
 They qualify for a 10-year multi-annuity settlement. The property is passed through. Thank you. Counsel, do you have any questions regarding Resolution 23-35? Seeing none, I will turn it to the public. Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favor of 23-35? There's no one from the vote who will present in person. Does the Speaker favor the opponent's resolution? And that's for opposition resolution? Yes.
 Thank you. I'll turn it back to my colleagues. Are there any additional comments? If not, what's your pleasure? Move for adoption. Second. Senator Lee, second. Ms. Jones, the roll please for 2335. Councilmember White. Councilmember Summer-Gordon. Aye. Councilmember Harmon. Aye. Vice President McCracken. Aye. Councilmember Raiders. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner.
 5. Council Member Weill? Aye. Council Member Bruns? Aye. 3. Thank you. Resolution 23-35 is been adopted. Yeah. Would you please give Resolution 23-36 a read? 23-36, resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana confirming the adoption of a deputory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Indiana commonly known as
 5448, Bill and Rod, stopping in Atlanta for a specific period in the economic revitalization area for purposes of a nine-year real-profit intangible with real city footage clearly shown on screen. Thank you. Very committed, reporter. Yes, Bill 23, I-36 came to the Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 The public sector growth and opportunity conferences on the 14th floor. We produce confirming resolutions. 12, the county council approved a statutory resolution for the tax bigger in order of property. The owner is DLT for ELC, AIM General Penal Taxes. The building is being expanded so that AIM General can meet the requirements of the new U.S. Army tax on private investment for the 12 million dollars. Thank you.
 and they qualify for a nine-year industrial development package. Thank you. Council, are there any questions for the position? If not, I'll turn to the public. Question. There's no one from the public. I will probably be expressing my position to the public in favor of this award in the process. But that is the same. I'll turn back to the council. Do we have any comments?
 Uh, thank you. This is exciting. Uh, these military contracts are exciting not only for the city, but the whole community, uh, and in general, it's very much a regional, uh, corporation that affects the whole county, and we're excited about it. Thank you. Thank you. I say thank you for your investment in the 1st District. I look forward to touring the place, and thank you for your investment. Thank you. For adoption. Thank you.
 Councilmember, will you please read the roll? Councilmember Fuller-Fordy? Councilmember Hammond? Vice President Dostoevsky? Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Lee? Councilmember Warner? Councilmember Webb? Councilmember White? President McGraw? Thank you. Resolution 23 has 36% adopted.
 I would like to entertain a motion to add resolution 23-37 and 23-38 to the prayer together. So moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion carries. Clerk Jones will you please give resolution 23-37 and 23-38 a read.
 2337, a resolution of the County Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution resonating some areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana. Hamlin Dome has 516 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46301, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a six-year real private house renovation for unserved property to no known school.
 2338, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana confirming the adoption of a regulatory resolution legislating some areas within the City of South Indiana commonly known as 516 South 163, South Indiana 46601, the Mechanomics and Violation Area for purposes of a two-year vacant building at the base of our preserved property, Tallahassee.
 Thank you. And we have community scores, folks. That is right. Both bills come to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Lobb, this is Dr. for an opportunity officer for four years. Consideration of two confirming resolutions on June 12, the council group. Both declared for a resolution concerning building as renovating for a long time the minor construction building.
 small scale developers in town who are committed to mineral park neighborhoods for building issues um earlier this year and playing through that over 570 000 dollars to rehab the building on the vacant building abasement and the mixed mixed use belt excuse me the mixed use well the real property tax payment um are necessary for them to be able to proceed with this project and thank you
 Council, do you have any questions for the petition? If not, I'll turn to the public. Are there any comments for resolution 2337 or 2338? The first one is universal and private. Expressing interest to speak on 02337 and on 02338. And then one person is speaking on the basis of 2337 or 2338. The second is 031. Expressing interest to speak on the basis of
 Thank you. I'll turn back to Council for comments. Cool. Um, the Institute of Property at 516 South Mission Street, I'm looking at the infrastructure in front of it. Uh, certainly meeting the sidewalks and curbs. If they're going to work with the developers to ensure that that doesn't look like, it looks like my latest, I think, you know, it deserves a good planning first meeting.
 I'm in contact with them shortly after they had purchased the building and I'm working with them. I'm just looking at the business. I know they're working hard and real hard to service this building.
 We're certainly in the process of doing a Monroe Park neighborhood plan. So, absolutely. I'm familiar with all of this stuff. Thank you. Thank you for the other comments. I just want to say, this is our top of need for their investment in this area and top of hand Monroe Park neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Council, what's your second? Second. Council, we're moving to second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please, on 23-37.
 Councilmember Hammonds? Aye. Vice President McCroskey? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Black? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Pumar-Torgan? Aye. Councilmember Brown? Aye. Thank you. Resolution 23-37 is called to roll on 23-38. Vice President McCroskey? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Vice President McCroskey? Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Councilmember West. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomahawk-Warden. Councilmember Harmon. President McBride. Resolution 23-38 has been adopted. President Holden, will you please give Resolution 23-39 a read.
 2339, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Indiana commonly known as 504 South Rockville Overbodies, South Indiana 46601, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year rural park infestation for rural America development elements.
 THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THERE'S A LATE REPORT. THERE'S A LATE REPORT. THERE'S A LATE REPORT. YES, CONGRATULATIONS, BRIDE. YES, CONGRATULATIONS, BRIDE. YES, CONGRATULATIONS, BRIDE. 23-39 COMES TO THE FULL COUNCIL 23-39 COMES TO THE FULL COUNCIL 23-39 COMES TO THE FULL COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE WITH A FAVORABLE WITH A FAVORABLE RECOMMENDATION. RECOMMENDATION. RECOMMENDATION. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THIS IS DR. SPROKIN, THIS IS DR. SPROKIN, THIS IS DR. SPROKIN
 PLEASE SEE UPDATE OF THE 2021 TASK DEPARTMENT AND COMPLETE TASK IN SUPPORT OF THE DIAMOND VIEW COMPARTMENT PROJECT ACROSS THE STREET FROM BELL PARK WHAT YOU'RE WHAT YOU ARE WILL BE APPROVING HERE IS THE CONFIRMING RESOLUTION FOR THE MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT UM PART OF THE COMPLEX UH THE COMMUNITY BUILDING WITH OFFICES YELLOW OUTLINES UM YOU MAY RECALL THAT 1912 COUNCIL REACHING TERMS
 THE 2021 BASIN FOR THE MULTI-FAMILY ELEMENT, WHICH IS THE LOW-INCOME BUILDING, WHICH YOU SEE RIGHT HERE. THIS IS AN EXCITING PROJECT THAT REAL AMERICA WILL BE BUILDING AND TO BREAK AROUND THAT BELIEVE THIS WILL ALL RIGHTS CHANGES. YES, MAJOR. THANK YOU. COUNCIL, ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS OR RESPONSIBILITIES? IF NOT, I'LL SEND IT TO THE PUBLIC FORCEMENT FROM NOVEMBER.
 I wish no one from the public was pressing this bill number 23. Thank you. I'll turn back to my colleagues. Do you have any comments?
 Just quickly, I'd like to thank Real America. I know this has been about a three-year fall here, and I was very excited about Bristol-Graham. I would remind Mr. Davis, this is the one you voted for a week ago. I just said it to Maury. I said I made a mistake. You haven't, Mr. Davis. I'm sure you make mistakes as well, right? Okay. Thank you. Just reminding you. Not reminding you. You're going to do it. Any other comments from my colleagues? And what's the present?
 I'm Commissioner Packard. Director. I'm Officer Secretary of the Club Stone in a place called Rome. Councilmember Davis. No. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Comerford. Aye. Councilmember Hunter. Aye. Vice President McCloskey. Aye. Vice President Brown. Aye. Chair Lowen. Brown. You're still in the way of that, I think. That's the right thing to say. Aye. Eight. Eight. Yeah, you're right.
 I'm sorry. Is there any way I can change my voting? That wasn't an honest respect of my hearing, but it's not that big of a deal either. Don't worry about it. Go ahead, Curt Jones. Don't worry about it. It's been working fine. 23-39, I'm saying, for adopting. Yes. Curt Jones, would you please give Hill's resolution 23-40 a read? Yes. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 2340, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, resigning 70 areas within the City of South Indiana, commonly known as multiple properties, and economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for a bad case of eligible corporation. Thank you. We miss our substitute deal that has been passed. So for the record, this is substitute deal 2340.
 uh is there a committed report right uh resolution bill 23-4 you come to the full council is that favorable right thank you there's a lot of this director of broken opportunity office we're done working for the building territory resolution concerns the advantage project has been for about several times
 IT'S A MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT REAL PROPERTY IT'S A MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT REAL PROPERTY IT'S A MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT REAL PROPERTY OF THE 8th AND 4th OF THE 8th AND 4th OF THE 8th AND 4th TEN YEARS. TEN YEARS. TEN YEARS. THE HIGH LEVEL 50 AFFORDABLE THE HIGH LEVEL 50 AFFORDABLE THE HIGH LEVEL 50 AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS ACROSS 37 HOUSING UNITS ACROSS 37 HOUSING UNITS ACROSS 37 CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES CITY-OWNED PROPERTIES AMIDST THE SINGLE-FAMILY HOMES,
 Thank you. I just found the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to my colleagues.
 I said this RDC, I'll repeat it just real quickly. A year ago when we put out the RDCs, I think we were optimistic on the RDC that maybe we'd be able to get six or 10 or 12 of these lots filled with infill housing, and we ended up with 37. That's tremendous. But I
 go back again can't say enough about caleb and the team and joe and uh legal uh also put in a lot of work and uh thank you for that and eric and tim cox and everyone that works on the rfp uh it was a long process and uh congratulations and thank you and i think it says a lot about the growth
 Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure. Comfort with the pleasure.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Harris? Aye. Vice President D'Ascotty? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. President DeGrasse? Aye. Thank you. Resolution 23-40, Senator D'Alton? I had a quick question about this last one. I heard Councilman Warren bring up the fact that he's working on RRT. When have council members been allowed to work on RRT? I've never seen it before. I've heard of it before.
 I was going to do more drills, but that wasn't an interesting one. I sort of developed the details of where RMP is.
 So, Adam, you thought this might have done this before. Well, I'd be happy to clarify. So, this RFP was issued by the South Bend Re-development Commission, which Justin Warren and Justin Glass are members. Sure. And prior to its issuance, we brought a draft to the Redevelopment Commission for their review and provided them an opportunity for comment.
 And so we got some comments, we made some adjustments, and I brought it back, and then they issued the documents to us. Okay. Thank you. With that being said, we'll move on because it has already been adopted. Thank you for your question. It was on first reading. Would you please give Mr. Hines Bill 44 against 23 on first reading? Yes.
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. An ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1006 St. Vincent Street, Ct. District No. 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to extend Bill 4423 of the South Bend Plan for Maintaining Public Clearing on August 7th
 JULY 17TH AND COUNCIL TO THE DNA FOR PUBLIC AND INTERNAL REGION ON JULY 24TH. NEW SPEAKERS. NEW SPEAKERS. NEW SPEAKERS. NEW SPEAKERS. THE ROLL, PLEASE. NEW SPEAKERS. NEW SPEAKERS. LIGHT PRESIDENT MISCALFEE. COUNCIL MEMBER DAVIS. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER LAYTON. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER WARNER. COUNCIL MEMBER LACK. COUNCIL MEMBER WHITE. COUNCIL MEMBER TOMAS MORGAN.
 Council Member Hannan? Aye. President Maybride? Aye. That's 9-9. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 4523 a first reading.
 First reading one important for the common council of the city of South Bend. Amending zoning for property located at 1018 North Francis Street, complemented district number four in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send this to the Southern State Commission for public hearing on July 17th and to council for the EMA committee for public hearing on July 24th.
 I'm going to second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. I'm sitting in the chair. Is there any opposition? Is there any from council at this time? Yeah, absolutely. I want to, um, Linda, thank you to the South Bend Police Department, um, for their presence. Uh, every time that I've called them, uh, it's been really late notice, you know, to be honest about this, really late notice when it comes to, um, tolls, um, recession, um,
 to the cemetery and they always, always say yes. And I think that that is just so admirable because the last time I called, it was less than 24 hours and they were there on the spot. So, I just want to say, you know, great job and thank you. The second thing, you can't
 I heard illegal dumping earlier back in 2009, 10 maybe. I don't know. It could have been 2008. Myself and Karen, the councilman, Senator White, worked with Dan Kassler's top of the crew to start an illegal dumping crew. That illegal dumping crew was very successful in their efforts. I'm not sure what the dollar amount was, but it ran through solid waste.
 and it worked. So I don't know if that program itself and the design of that particular program could be rehashed because it obviously worked. It had some great wins in it. Nothing is ever 100% perfect, but I do remember that one. And that one really did a good job with keeping neighborhoods and people jumping at a minimum.
 And the last thing I just want to say when I was trying to talk about the RMP, council members serve as the creditors of the council on those particular boards. So if you're engaged in another level of discussion that impacts the council, the council needs to know that prior to voting on it. And for several different ways, an applause. That's what I'm getting at. Like the bed bug ordinance? I'm sorry? Like the bed bug ordinance, for example?
 i'm not sure i'll check your saying the council is serving as a pleasure to discuss with the outside
 No, no. Members and the council has to vote on it. That should be discussed with the council also? No, that's not good. That's not what I'm going to do. If they ever heard something for you, you get a chance to deliberate. You get a chance to interrogate. You don't get involved in doing it. No, you do get a chance to interrogate a certain second and third reason.
 And then you also have the opportunity to talk with the bill sponsor prior to the council meeting to get anything. That's where I'm finding it today. I mean, but you still have the opportunity to do that regardless of the user. What I'm pointing at is that the rules of the council have codified.
 I'm saying that those who serve on the redevelopment of that pleasure, those who serve on the park board, whoever it is, who serve at the pleasure of the council, I'm not attacking anyone. What I am trying to clarify is that when I asked that question, I never understood it and I never heard, even the time that I served on the redevelopment.
 having the flexibility of working with the other attorneys inside the administration to develop an R.P. That's all I'm trying to say. I understand. No, I don't mean that. I don't mean that. Well, why didn't you go to the Red Book? No, no, no. Because I was making a clarification. And I'm just speaking for myself, but this has been an ongoing...
 problems that there are bills that come before council, the council doesn't have an opportunity until the agenda goes out to see what is coming before us. And there has been outside communication with others and not the council. And then when it comes to council, and this is the first time we have been engaged, we are asked to vote on
 ordinances that we have not been asked to come at the table and date to. So I was speaking to that, and for me it is one and the same. President Brown, you get two weeks from when a time of bill is filed before it shows up for first reading.
 So you did another two weeks before you decided on Council Floor. So that's four weeks. No, it's not the process. No, it's not the process. This was tabled. The bed board has to be tabled. But they come to us on a Thursday before the Monday meeting. And we'll complete it the first day.
 Yes, but that should not be the only conversation that councils have. We have an entire month. We have an entire month. Okay, go along. Is there any other business from the council? I just don't want to do the job. We have an entire month. I've never been there before. The meeting's about 45.3. Yes, we did submit. It was everyone that was active.
 I'm sorry. We did 45 as well. We did 44, 23, and I should have done it by acclamation, but you did a roll call. And then when we got to 45, 43, I did it by acclamation, and everyone voted in favor. Thank you for that question. That's a great question. Is there any unfinished business or any new business that council would like to discuss? If not, we'll turn to the privilege of the floor at this time.
 and then one which is the speaker that was on the floor. Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you, President. My name is Joseph Wilkins. I was at 2405 Hurston Boulevard. I've been there for 19 years. So this is concerning application of force and enforcement of already established offenses on the door, particularly regarding tree bombs and lawn parking within the 3rd, 4th, or 5th and 6th District primarily. Thank you.
 I understand many council members don't have to deal with that at the extent that we do in Southern half of our city. And we look towards future urban development. Actual enforcement of existing ordinance is not being done, all the while we're seeking horizon projects. One in particular, let's just look at two. Chapter 14, Article 8, Section 1443.
 Parking prohibited on sidewalks or curb areas. You shall be involved with a parked motor vehicle walking any part of the sidewalk or curb that is parallel to the street adjacent to the left. Any force over a motor vehicle which protrudes over or onto a sidewalk or curb shall be considered a violation of this Act. Chapter 20, Section 6 of the Car Article 10, Section 20-84. Parking on sidewalks, alley, or parkway.
 No person shall park any vehicle on a public sidewalk, in a public alley, or in a parkway between a public sidewalk and a curb. I think we can kind of associate that with what's called a tree lawn. I'll interject that. There's been a conversation regarding added abatements, tax deferrals, misuse, misallocation, and perceived property tax revenues not being spent within our originated areas. Our neighborhoods are suffering, all from very many reasons.
 I do believe this council needs reminded that the funds that you obey are assets of the team. Money that could be utilized to have continuous improvement with existing infrastructure. One issue that stands out especially in the 5th district, which I've been on the same house for 19 years, is a broken window syndrome. Councilman Davis was in the 2nd district and in the 1st district and had to deal with this extensively in the past decade.
 We've now fixed the small issues of urbanic elevation, and we're growing to much larger, much more costly issues for the general public. Increasing property value, increasing quality of life, loss of green space, loss of green infrastructure, and a perceived devaluation of our neighbors. As people have already stated, we know that there are problems. We do not do the same thing to either resolve the issue or to begin to address the issue. There's a lot of talking about things being done.
 without actual doing of the thing to be done. So Article 14, Article 8, Section 14, penalties and enforcement, there are penalties, dollar amounts. We're asking for not new laws. We're not asking for variants of existing laws. It's just the enforcement of the actual laws and the actual ordinances that we have passed in the community, affecting our communities across this entire city.
 So now I've gone to code enforcement. I've talked to my fifth district representative. So now I'm coming to you as a councilor. You can say that you have had these matters come in case there is a problem that you are not addressing. Law enforcement can address it because we've taken them off the street. Code enforcement does it because they're overworked. So all of our neighborhoods are being devalued, are copycat devalued.
 Please enforce the 15-4-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-10-
 staff, et cetera, to enforce the laws that are on the books that are written by the community legislative body. Now, we remain forever susceptible. Well, see, that's the problem. You need to know the information to know where you're going to get from, so you get the results and get somebody to interject. You, your conversation is with the department. They're supposed to be a foreseer, but also the mayor's office. The mayor's office appoints the department head for each individual department.
 I'm very excited to respond to that. I would... You definitely can, but I would also like to say that I was going to refer you to have a discussion with Ms. White as well, because if you heard her state earlier about working on the ordinances, not to say that she would be the one, because she's not the sole person to address that issue, but there is ongoing conversations and dialogue about the quality of life ordinances, and that is one of them. So I can say that
 We've been in discussion about that, but I can't speak for her, but if she wants to say anything, I don't think you can tell us until after the meeting, but yes, you can say for the record a response. And after the meeting, if you would also please do it, Ms. Weathers. Absolutely. Thank you. Well, I know that the council allocates funds, and you have to call her the first to be able to offer specific funds towards neighborhood allocations.
 uh towards angler associations or to to better fund code enforcement to better fund law enforcement so the options are there but the work actually has to be done we actually have to allocate our money instead of through abatements and this approach in a different approach or things are going to better our existing community our existing population because we're the ones that suffer right now
 So our tax dollars aren't being allocated to the proper avenues and the proper departments to better our community, not just in the specific districts or in the gentrification of other districts, but to be allocating the money that will better our communities that are left to serve in South San Jose. I think that the council has an avenue to effect change. Thank you, Clayton. Thank you.
 Uh, clerk Jones, will you say the word? Mr. Smith, on the 7th floor. There's no one in the 7th floor. I would just request a motion to leave on the 7th floor. Thank you. With that, I'll just leave you, sir.