Good evening. I would like to call Monday, June 24th, 2024 Common Council meeting to order. Dr. Rado, I believe you'd like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone, not speaking by default, to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves. Thank you.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will soon be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers in at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input.
 My name is full name and I live at address and I would like to speak for or against agenda item. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourselves prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we will have the invocation by Pastor Lee. Thank you. Please bow your heads with me. Heavenly Father, as we gather here tonight for the South Bend Common Council meeting, we ask for your presence to guide and to bless our deliberations.
 We are grateful for the opportunity to serve our community and to seek your wisdom and clarity in our decisions and our discussions. Grant us the ability to listen with an open heart and minds and respect differing viewpoints. Help us to work collaboratively for the common good. May our actions reflect justice, compassion, and integrity.
 And may the outcomes of this meeting contribute to the prosperity and well-being of all of our residents. We pray for your strength to uphold the trust placed in us and to act with fairness and humility. Bless our city. Bless our leaders. Bless our citizens. And help us to make choices that honor and uplift our community. In your holy name we pray. Amen. Thank you. And for the Pledge of Allegiance, please. Thank you.
 Senator Rotter, will you call the roll, please? President McBride. Present. Vice President Neskoski. Present. Council Member Gunn-Rogers. Present. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Present. Council Member White is excused. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Present. Council Member Dr. Davis. Present. A council member's present.
 Thank you. At this time, we will have the report from subcommittee on minutes. Clerk Tirado. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the June 10, 2024 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the June 26, 2023 meeting.
 and the September 25th, 2023 minutes of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. This recommendation for approval is made recognizing that three current members of the council were not seated in 2023, and as such will be abstaining from any formal approval of old minutes. Thank you. Make a motion that we accept the minutes from June 10th and June 20th, yeah, June 10th, and June 26th.
 No, I think they're 26. June 10th. Thank you. The motion is there. Second. Second. And moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion's carried. Is there a motion for minutes of 626 and 925 of 2023? Second. Been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Abstain. The motion's carried. Thank you. This time, I will entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motions carried. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meetings where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 23-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 620 South St. Joseph Street, Councilman District number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Yes, Mr. Chair. The Zoning and Aggregation Committee met this afternoon, and we bring Bill number 2324 to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 All right. We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Carrie Myers with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. I am here for bill number 2324 submitted by Historic Properties at 620 South St. Joseph Street to rezone from U1 Urban Neighborhood 1 to U2 Urban Neighborhood 2.
 The property has been most recently leased as a four separate unit apartment building, and a fire has created the need for extensive repairs. And without the rezoning, the owner is unable to obtain the necessary permits to make the repairs. The owner states that the property has been leased as a four unit apartment for at least the past 40 years, perhaps longer. The rezoning will legalize the use. The Monroe Park Edgewater...
 plan of 2023 supports the rezoning to U2 for sensitively designed buildings of up to four units built at a scale compatible with the surrounding properties. The house will not be changing its footprint and it's contextually appropriate for the area. The request is also consistent with the city plan. South Bend comprehends a plan of 2006 H1, which ensures that an adequate supply of housing is available to meet the needs of
 preferences, and financial capabilities of households now and in the future. Rezoning the property to you two will allow for residential growth and increased housing options in the neighborhood while not drastically changing the established character. It comes to the council from the plan commission with a favorable recommendation and the petitioner is here with us. All right, petitioner, would you please state your name and address for the record?
 Hi, Charity Stowe, 614 South St. Joseph Street. And I don't have much to add besides what Carrie said, but this, I live right down the street from this property. And when I bought it, it had just had a fire. I'd only known it as a fourplex property.
 The previous owner sent a letter to the council saying that it had been a fourplex since his family got it in the 80s. So it's been at least 40 years that it's operated like this. So I'm happy to answer any questions, but not much to add. We talked a lot about this in the committee meetings earlier today. So council members, do you have any questions?
 If not, we will now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 23-24? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Right. Okay.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 23-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding this bill. Move for a favor or recommendation for counsel. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Torado, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Vice President Noskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 23-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right. Clerk Torado, would you please give Bill 24-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 712, 718, and 724 Turnock Street, Councilman District number four in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Mochi, did you hear the substitute bill? Yeah, I second that. All right. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposition? Aye.
 All right. We can now hear the substitute bill. I'm sorry. It normally is at the top, and I didn't see it on the bottom there. All right. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Mr. Chair. We heard the substitute bill, number 2424, this afternoon, and we bring it to our council with a favorable recommendation. All right. Petitioner, we see that you're here. State your name and address and give us brief points concerning the bill that's before us.
 Thank you. Carrie Myers with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. This next item is the rezoning of 712, 718 and 724 Turnock Street from U1 Urban Neighborhood 1 to U2 Urban Neighborhood 2 District. The petitioner, who is South Bend Heritage Foundation, is requesting to rezone these three parcels to U2 to allow for a multi-dwelling unit with no more than four units in the southernmost district.
 property, and the other two will be rezoned to U2 as well for duplexes. These lots are part of a larger five lot development on Turnock Street. The request is consistent with the city plan, subjective to assure that adequate supply of housing is available to meet the needs of
 Preferences of households now and in the future, and it's also consistent with the Northeast Neighborhood Plan 2022, which encourages infill development on vacant and underutilized lots with medium density residential development.
 Rezoning the site to U2, Urban Neighborhood 2 will allow for the residential growth and increased housing options in the neighborhood while not drastically changing the established character. It comes to the council with a favorable recommendation from the plan commission and the petitioner is here.
 Good evening, Angela Smith with Dan Turner Associates. Office is located at 1643 Commerce Drive. This is an exciting project that's a joint partnership between the NNRO, South Bend Heritage Foundation, and actually Habitat for Humanity as well.
 While Habitat's not part of this because they're building a single-family home, Southland Heritage and the NNRO are excited to rezone these properties to be consistent with the neighborhood plan that showed these for you, too, to allow for a mix of housing in this neighborhood, and in particular, housing that can be built as and remain as affordable housing in a neighborhood that has ever-changing demand.
 We're excited to see that they're going to be doing two duplexes and then the quad here on these southern portions. The one on the far right, which is actually the northernmost lot for South Bend Heritage, is actually going to be a single-family home. So they've concentrated the more intense multifamily closer to the multifamily on South Bend Avenue. I would be happy to answer any questions and ask for your favorable recommendation and approval this evening.
 All right. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioners? Again, we did a lot of this questioning at the committee meeting. If not, then I will now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill, substitute bill 24-24? I ask that you state your name and address. My name is Dick Nussbaum. I'm the attorney for the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization.
 My address is 225 South Sunnyside in South Bend. I'm a resident of the 3rd District. Back in 2000, I was part of a group that began the NNRO, and one of the things that we wanted to do was to preserve the neighborhood and preserve affordable housing in the neighborhood. And as things have morphed over the years, it's become more challenging to do that.
 But we have instituted what I think is a very exciting component of our plan, and that is a community land trust. And the three blots that the NNRO own will be community land trust homes and will be preserved for affordable housing for the foreseeable future. And so we appreciate your consideration of this so that it will –
 improve the housing stock for individuals who need the housing. Thank you. All right. Is there anyone else that wants to speak in favor of Bill, Sub-2 Bill 2424? I do not see anyone else from the audience or online wishing to speak in favor. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing bill, public hearing on Bill 24-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding this bill. Move to send Bill 24-24 to the whole council. Second, but that's substitute bill. Oh, substitute bill 24-24. And I second it.
 All right. Excuse me. Is that a favorable recommendation? Thank you. All right. And I'll second the favorable recommendation. A motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. David. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 24-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Torraldo, would you please give Bill 25-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at
 215 West Marin Street, 502, 506, 530 North Lafayette Boulevard, and Bacon Lot north of 506 North Lafayette Boulevard, Councilmanic District number one in the city of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Mr. Chair. The zoning and annexation committee met today and we bring Bill 25-24 to the full council with a favorable report.
 All right. As a petitioner, I see that she's present. I ask that you state your name. We should probably know that by now, but state your name and address for the record and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Thank you. Carrie Myers with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 bringing a request submitted by South Bend Memorial Hospital seeking to rezone the property from NC Neighborhood Center to downtown district to allow for the comprehensive development of employee parking for the Beacon Hospital, particularly throughout the construction of the Madison Lifestyle District. It's consistent with the Near Northwest Neighborhood Plan 2019, which identifies the area as a gateway into downtown district,
 And upzoning the NC parcels to downtown will allow for contextually appropriate future development on the site. The area is included in the scope of the new downtown plan currently in development, and it comes to the council with a favorable recommendation from the plan commission. Your petitioner is here. Yes.
 Angela Smith, the Danch-Harner Associates Office is located at 1643 Commerce Drive. This particular petition is to unify all of the property that's owned by Beacon and Memorial into one common zoning district for the development of an employee parking lot. This is moving the parking from the southeast onto this lot so that they can start construction of the Madison Lifestyle District. So it's an exciting kickoff to phase one, I suppose.
 The South Bend Medical Foundation building is in the process of being demolished and then the site will be regraded, brought up to current standards for drainage and landscaping and developed with increased pedestrian safety to the hospital. I'd be happy to answer your questions or ask for your favorable recommendation and approval. Council members, do you have any questions? All right. If not, we'll now go to the public portion.
 Clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 25-24? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 25-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill.
 I'll make a motion to send 2524 to the full council with the favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Dorado, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. David. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right.
 Bill 25-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Dorado, would you please give Bill 26-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10978-23, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees.
 of Executive Departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2024 to add a full-time employee to two existing positions and to make title and salary changes to two existing full-time positions. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard personal and finance this afternoon. It was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We see that the petitioner is here. I ask that you state your name and address for the record.
 And key points regarding the bill that's before us. Kyle Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor of this building. Bill 2624 amends the 2024 salary ordinance. First up is the financial specialist senior, which is in the admin and finance department. The title change from admin from financial specialist senior to senior finance officer at the Morris Performing Arts Center.
 This position will also receive a salary cap increase from $62,000 to $70,000. No additional appropriation will be needed for this position.
 Second position is within VPA, a venue parts and art. It's a title change from financial specialist three to financial specialist four. This position took on additional duties as another position was eliminated late last year. This is a title change and no additional probation to funds were needed for this position. Third position is an admin assistant within VPA, the VPA department for the Morris Performing Arts Center.
 Currently, this position, this admin assistant position is a part-time position. We are seeking to change that to a full-time position. This position will require an additional appropriation of funds in the amount of $33,260, which we will discuss later this evening in the additional appropriations bill. The final position, another position within venue parks and art, is the director of development. We are seeking a title change from director of development.
 director of development to director of development and special events. Also, there will be an increase from the salary cap of $63,000 to $77,000 for the additional responsibilities in this role. We are not seeking any additional appropriation for this position as there is available budget from open positions in this department. And with that, I'll answer. I'd like to answer any questions. Council members, are there any questions?
 Once again, we did a lot of this discussion in committee meetings. So now we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 26-24? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in favor. Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition? All right. Please state your name and address.
 Hi, my name is Mr. Clark, 1121 Ruffalo Street. Well, what I'm hearing is because we change a name, we change some certain vertige, we get more money for this? I mean, I don't get more money just because they changed the name and they give a little bit more task of the day. I mean,
 I didn't know that the city had that much money just to give it out just because they changed the name. And if no one is going to steep it, no one is going to say anything against it. It's because, you know, when it's time for you guys to get some money, I guess you don't want to talk against that. But how are we just going to give more money just because you changed it from a two to a three? I mean, that's 10 grand each pop. And then the lowest one on the totem pole is that one that's.
 The part-time that just went to full-time, $32,000. But everybody else is making $70,000, $80,000. And the one that's making $30,000 is the one doing all the damn work. That's all I'm saying. You need to think about it. All you're doing is going from a GS4 to a GS5. And you're not doing that much work because they're doing the work right now. Leave it like it is. Take that money somewhere else. Do something else better with it. That's all I'm saying.
 Mr. Willis, if you can explain to him that. At least for the part-time position, the $33,000 that's being appropriated, that's to get that position funded through the rest of the year. It is not just we're just changing titles and throwing money. All these positions are justified in the title change, in the salary increase. I think it would be almost disrespectful to pay somebody to do more work and not be compensated for it.
 The city just doesn't just have this huge pot of money, just infinite pot of money. All this, we budget for this. It's the point of us having a budget so we don't overspend. We we are able to cover the expenses and make sure our employees are paid properly.
 We are not acting recklessly with the spending or with the changing of titles or salary increases. This happens not just here. This happens in private companies. So this is not new. This is not irresponsible. I think what we do is fair in our budgeting process and in how we manage the funds throughout the year.
 Thank you. At this point, the public hearing portion of Bill 2624 is now closed. Council members, I will now entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to send Bill 2624 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Sainz. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Council Member Warner. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Heskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 26-24 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Torado, could you please give a second substitute, 27-24, a second reading. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana,
 for budget transfers for various departments within the city of south bend indiana for the year 2024. and i'm sorry chair i would like to make a motion to accept the second substitute bill first 2724. all right there's been a motion and and a second uh all in favor any opposed all right we have now accepted the second sub second substitute is there a committee report
 Yes, there is, Chair. Substitute Bill 2724 was heard in personal and finance this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We see the petitioners present. State your name and address and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Kyle Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor, Bill 2724, budget transfers, just only had a handful.
 for today, one of those being $115,208 budget transfer in the venue parks and art golf division to cover golf lease payments and small tools and equipment supplies. And then there's an $8,000 budget transfer in the community initiatives division to cover radio purchases for the parks poets employees. With that, I'll open up for any other questions regarding the budget transfers. All right.
 Council members, do you have any questions? I would like to say, Kyle, would you please explain to the public how we're able to do that? Excuse me.
 So with budget transfers, in the event there's an account within that department that is low on funds or needs additional funding, we can move budget or money from that account that has additional funds into the account.
 that needs additional funding. So we only do this with funds within the same fund. So we don't do this across different funds, just only within the same fund. All right, thank you very much. Any, at this point, we will now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of second substitute bill 27-24? I do not see anyone from the audience or online wishing to speak in favor.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on bill, second substitute bill 27-24, is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Torado, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Second substitute bill 27-24 will now be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Clerk Torado, would you please give Bill 28-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2024 of $2,000 from General Fund Number 101, $3 million from the Parks Recreation Fund Number 201,
 $50,000 from the gift donation request fund number 217. $180,000 from the law enforcement continuing education fund number 220. $38,000 from the code enforcement fund number 230. $1,750,000 from the local income tax economic development fund number 408. $33,000, I'm sorry, $33,260. $33,000.
 For the Morse Performing Arts Operations Fund number 602, 200,000 from the Water Works Capital Fund number 622, 240,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund number 640, 2,300,000 from the Sewage Works
 Operations Fund Number 641, $2,704,951 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund Number 642, and $50,000 from the Century Center Capital Fund Number 671. All right. Petitioner? Yes.
 access state your name and address and key points regarding the bill that's before us yes kyle willis city controller offices on the fourth floor um just some key points from this uh bill bill 28 20-24 uh appropriation of three million dollars from fund 201 personal rex of grant proceeds to be received from state budget agency to go towards field improvements and renovations at the buyer south south ball field complex
 um appropriation of one one million seven hundred fifty thousand dollars out of fund for aid our local intact local income tax economic development fund for uh appropriate funds for the new city hall technology needs and uh higher than um budget renovation costs
 also fund uh 602 the morris performing arts operations fund uh that is for 33 260 for the position that we just spoke about in the salary ordinance amendment for the uh part-time to full-time admin assistant position and fund 642 from sewers works sewage works capital appropriation of 2.3 million dollars for a wastewater treatment plant solar project
 With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions regarding any of the additional appropriations. Council members, do you have any questions? Again, a lot of our questions were asked and answered during the committee. So at this time, we'll now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 28-24? I do not see anyone in the audience or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill.
 Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 28-24? I do not see anyone from the audience or online wishing to speak in opposition. All right. At this time, I will now entertain a motion.
 I move that we send Bill 28-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Aye.
 All right. Bill 2824 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. All in favor. Aye. Any opposition? Motion carries. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that we just heard during the committee of the whole.
 Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 2324 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 620 South St. Joseph Street, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 23-3 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 2324. Move for passage. Second. It's been motioned and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 2324 has been adopted.
 Dr. Rotto, will you please give Substitute Bill 2424 a reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 712, 718, and 724 Turnock Street,
 Councilman District Number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 24-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 24-24. Move for passage. Second. Then moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 2424 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 2524 a third reading?
 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 215 west marion street 502
 506-530 North Lafayette Boulevard, and vacant lot north of 506 North Lafayette Boulevard, Councilman District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 25-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 25-24. Move for passage. Second. Second.
 Move and second it. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 2524 has been adopted.
 clerk Toronto will you please give bill 26 24 or third reading third reading third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending ordinance number 10978-23 which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend
 for calendar year 2024 to add a full-time employee to two existing positions and to make title and salary changes to two existing full-time positions. Thank you.
 Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation for Bill 26-24? Yes, Madam President. Bill 26-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 26-24. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 26-24 has been adopted. Dr. Rotter, will you please give second substitute bill 27-24 a third reading.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2024. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 27-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute bills 27-24. Do I have a substitute bill?
 Yes. Yes. Move for passage. Second. Move and second it. Kirk Tirado, the roll, please. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 27-24 has been adopted.
 Dr. Roda, will you please give Bill 28-24 a reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2024 of $2,000 from General Fund No. 101, $3 million from Parks and Recreation Fund No. 201.
 $50,000 from Gift Donation Request Fund Number 217. $180,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund Number 220. $38,000 from the Code Enforcement Fund Number 230. $1,750,000 from the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund Number 408.
 $33,260 from the Morris Performing Arts Operations Fund number 602. $200,000 from the Water Works Capital Fund number 622. $240,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund number 640. $2,300,000 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund number 641.
 $2,704,951 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund number 642, and $50,000 from the Century Center Capital Fund number 671.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 28-24? Yes, Bill 28-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 28-24. Move for passage. Second. We move and second it. Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers? Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 28-24 has been adopted. At this time, we'll return to resolutions.
 This portion of the council meeting where Common Council hears bills are proposed as filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each resolution is read by the city clerk. A report to the committee chairperson of the standing committee, which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given. This also requires a public portion hearing that will be heard tonight. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Resolution 2420 a reading?
 A resolution modifying and reconfirming the adoption of Declaratory Resolution No. 4612-17, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 401 East Colfax Avenue, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10 real property tax abatement for Commerce Center Development, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yeah, President McBride, after two committee meetings and approximately four hours of hearing, the bill comes forward with an unfavorable recommendation and a five to one vote. Thank you. Is there a presenter? Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you, President McBride. Sherry Bolden Simpson, 5th District Councilwoman, 6216 Exeter Court, South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you all. Pastor Lee, I'd like to thank you for your prayer. You said, let's listen with an open heart and be collaborative together. So even before I start, I want to say we heard we heard you and people in here know that I went and talked to people from on both sides of this issue.
 We heard your concerns and we have requested that Mr. Matthews create a memorandum of understanding and that will address your concerns. And we would like you going to an attorney. Parkman will address and present this to you.
 thank you sherry lyle hardman 215 205 west jefferson boulevard and i'd like to like to read to the council the memorandum of understanding which was previously circulated
 Memorandum of Understanding between David Matthews Personally, Commerce Center Development, LLC, Matthews 350 East LaSalle, LLC, East Bank South Development, LLC, Matthews 219 Sycamore, LLC, East Race Market, LLC, otherwise known as the parties, in order to address the concerns of its neighbors and the city of South Bend, 2A. Okay.
 Clean up 225 Sycamore Street, otherwise known as Stonehenge, by removing foliage and making it into a playground by August 15, 2024. Either replace the roof or demolish the burned-out section of 219 Sycamore Street, former Manicor, by September 15, 2024.
 Bring all Commerce Center development property taxes current after the auditor recalculates the taxes owed after passage of Bill 2420 within two weeks after receiving the corrected property tax bills so that the property tax abatement shall be in effect as originally set forth. D, agrees to continue to operate a grocery store for a minimum of five years in compliance with the definition in the development agreement and as long as the tax abatement as in effect.
 E clarifies that the tax abatement sought is only for the property on Lot 3 of the Commerce Center, minor subdivision with a street address of 230 Sycamore Street, South Bend, Indiana. And I'll turn it over to Ms. Bolden-Simpson for the presentation. Clerk Tirado, do you have a copy of that MOU, or does the council have that? I don't have a copy of that. If I may approach, I have a copy for you. I thought it was email. Sorry. Thank you very much.
 I didn't check. There are enough copies for everybody. We can share until you make some copies. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So to President McBride, Vice President Sheila Naskowski, Committee Chairman Troy Warner, and my esteemed colleagues, thank you for letting us.
 come here and present this. Thank you to all of you who have come out here to participate in the democratic process. All of your input is appreciated. And right now, I would like to give a presentation. What is Bill 2420? We're doing this presentation. I want to hit on three points.
 We want to clarify what exactly Bill 2420 is requesting. We want to highlight a process issue that was discovered in 2018 and the impact that process issue had on the 300 project. And finally, what South Bend has gained because of the completion of the 300 project. So Bill 2420.
 ask for a change of the designation period from four years to five years. The ending date was January 23rd, 2021. And we are asking you to change the ending of the designation period from, uh, to January 23rd, 2022 council meeting video archives.
 document a discovery of this process issue that plagued a number of redevelopment projects. And as the 300 project also was affected by this, and I think even more so because it is such a large project. Right here, it says the assessor does a reassessment on January 1st every year.
 But the assessor doesn't go around town doing all the assessments on January 1st. That's physically impossible. And so when does this occur? So would you click to the next? Well, right here, I would like to play this video. Process issues that we've learned over time of.
 When we do a tax abatement, there is a designation period that we'll get into in a minute, but you don't have that assessed value until the assessor actually reassesses the project after the investment. You have to do that before the designation period ends.
 So on January 1st is the effective reassessed value for that tax year. The assessor doesn't go around the entire city and reassess things on day one of the year, but that's when they have to estimate the assessed value being valid for that year. Thank you.
 So during the designation period, which is after the investment, the project has to be reassessed. The reassessment has to be done before the end of the designation period. I want to highlight and stress reassessments are reported on January 1st. The assessor visit takes place the year prior, and that can be an issue.
 We want to also reiterate and highlight that Bill 2420 does not change the abatement. The start date of the abatement will still be the same. The length of the abatement or the tax phase in will still be the same. So no change to that. Just a one year.
 But my glasses on this is a timeline here. And as you see, we have January 23rd, 2017. There was a confirming resolution and then we come all the way up to the designation period in which is January 23rd, 2021.
 Be mindful that this project went through COVID, just like all the other ones, all the other development projects, and they were all affected. So quarter four, 2018, ground was broken for the project. Sometime in year 2018, the assessor came by, literally physically, he or she came by and did an assessment. Okay.
 But in 2019, that's when the report is made. And so I'm sure it's not surprising to any of you that it was assessed, the project was assessed as 0% complete. And then there's another assessed report in 2020. Be mindful, the assessor came by the project in 2019.
 And we keep moving forward and you see these assessor reports, 2020, 2021, 2022. So what happened in specifically in the case of the 300 project? How did the assessor arrive at the assessed value each January 1st? And as I said, the assessor made a visit. When did this visit take place?
 I wonder did he come by a little truck like that Okay The assessor Visited June 2020 Sometime in June That was And the report date is January 1st 2021 This is six months of progress Happened after this Visit but that progress Is not included in the report Then
 Another visit came. So three months later, after January 1st, 2021, March 2021, another assessor visit and the report was 100 percent complete. Be mindful that report is made January 1st, 2022. OK.
 I teach your friends in here know that you have to pause sometime to give people a chance to chew on the on the information. Sometimes you feed a baby food and you put too much food in their mouth and they just spit it out. I don't want that to happen. So I'm giving you time to choose. So you choose so you can see how this can be very impactful.
 I know that in the committee meeting, someone said there was some mention of some entity determining that the occupancy was less than some percentage rate, but the abatement is based on what the assessor says. That's the way it is. So March, 2021st actual assessor visit, a hundred percent complete. Congratulations, but there's a problem. There is a problem because
 That's after the designation period in. What if what if the assessor visit had occurred on December 31st, 2020? But it didn't. OK, that's not within the control. It happened December. It happened March 2021. And then June 2020 was when the assessor came by and that were.
 that report falls within the designation period. So there's definitely a problem. As the way the report is given, it makes it seem that the project is farther behind than it really, really is. Maybe it was just three months behind or maybe less because the assessor came in June, not December. So this is a problem in addition to
 I was going to jump ahead, but keep it there, that we have COVID. We have LaSalle closure. We have Martin's pulling out of the grocery agreement at the ninth hour. And so here we are with a 38% is only abated and 62% was not captured. And if you look at this building, uh-oh.
 All right, so the blue part represents 38% of the 300 building. And then the red part is 62%. None of that 62% is captured in the abatement. But in the true spirit of the original resolution, it's completed. It's completed. We also want to clarify that we're not losing tax dollars.
 If it were not for developers that were willing to take a chance on South Bend, developers who persevered, had tenacity through COVID, LaSalle Street closures, we wouldn't have this. The revenues are on the increase.
 Let's listen to this information out there about tax abatements are it's only on the increase of revenue. So it's really more appropriately to be called tax basins because you're not losing any revenue. So for these projects, they wouldn't have happened. You're not you wouldn't be abating anything because there's nothing that would have been generated. So we're losing zero and we're adding over time. So this is great for the city and
 So from the administration viewpoint, I think council over time has demonstrated they believe in this, too, is that these are great for the community and these are wins. I think we all can agree that development is good for the city. And that's how we attract developers and people who are willing to take a chance. And we work all together. So the East Bank has had a vision that's over 40 years old.
 40 years ago, there was a vision to redevelop. Why did it take so long? Because this is taking a big chance.
 And everyone doesn't have the fortitude to do this. I can raise my hand. I have an aversion to risk. We need people that do not. I might do a back handspring on the balance being years ago, but other things, my money, I don't want to do that. I risk my back. We need people who are willing to do that. So before this revitalization, because I was here 40 years ago, there wasn't much in downtown.
 As a junior in high school in 1980, I remember driving downtown and just don't look up because there was nothing much to view. But now we are here. We have something. In 2017, no residents, no jobs, no grocery, certainly no pharmacy, no community.
 an empty parking lot that had a tax revenue of only $1,000 per year. That's what we had. And moving forward from 2017 to 2024, now there's a building there with 144 units. We have a grocery store. We do have a pharmacy. And so you can see the difference right there. It's a gorgeous building. And we're going to see some of the inside of it.
 No gentrification. This is something I've always been concerned about when we do make have new houses and and we push certain people out and have people come in. This redevelopment didn't do that. It was an empty lot. Nobody's pushed out of their home.
 That should be recognized. So what do we have? 144 units when the agreement was 125, 30,000 square feet of commercial realty. And after the tax phase in $660,000 per year in tax revenue in 2024, this is what was accomplished. We don't want to go back.
 We don't want to go back and we want to think about the long game. What is best for South Bend? It took blood, sweat, and tears, tenacity, perseverance. Anybody else would have thrown in a towel and said, forget this and let's give up. But he didn't, kept on. So what do
 We have some beautiful apartments, do efficiencies, one bedrooms, two bedrooms, luxury of the quality that are in Chicago. We have a grocery store. The grocery store would not have occurred if it were not for that 40 year vision. And I keep on saying tenacity, perseverance and commitment to this community. That grocery store was something else. It was all in the news.
 But we were going through COVID. Then LaSalle Street closed. Martins pulled out. You know, I received one letter where a gentleman was so thankful because of this project. He kept working through COVID.
 Some of us were blessed to work through COVID. All of us were not so fortunate. And so because of this project, some people kept working. Somebody didn't lose their house because they kept working. So that should be said. The East Race Market opened three weeks after LaSalle reopened. That was a hit.
 You know, having a grocery store, you just can't close down and save your product. It's going to rot. And so they had had to wait. And so only three weeks it was open and we have a beautiful grocery store. But you see how that road was not passable. And then we have a thank you. Stan, we have a pharmacy. I know you most of you know how.
 Dear to my heart, this is because my brother was one of the first black pharmacists in this area. And he had a pharmacy and it broke his heart that he lost it. But this pharmacy is here. This made him feel good. This pharmacy is here owned by a black woman. And she is among the many minority business owners that are in the commerce building.
 They are all there. And this is important. And I don't want to risk losing this, a place where new businesses can get started, a business incubator. We have a place that defies the axioms of addition. We know you learn in first grade that one plus one plus one should equal three.
 You probably even heard that two to the third power is not six, it's eight. But this, the synergy of the grocery store, the commerce building, defies the axioms of addition. The sum is more than a part.
 We have a place we can work, commercial office space, affordable co-working space, low-cost restaurant, entrepreneur incubator, dozens of small businesses. We can play and shop, shopping is playing, East Race Market, Farmer's Market, healthy
 You are ex-pharmacy, food and retail, fun and entertainment. The jazz club, that's a fine place to hang out. And then a place to live, 144 luxury apartments, gym and community events. These are nice things, but pretty things cost money. $41 million in private investment. $41 million. Why so much? Because we had COVID.
 supply chain supply chain interruptions you can't get your product they the products are high they kept pouring money into this like i said anybody else would have just thrown in a towel forget this let me cut my losses but he stayed here he stayed here with us
 So that needs to be acknowledged. So 40 years of multi-generational vision, two years of pre-planning, three years of construction and two years to lease up. It's a long journey. It was a long journey. And then we've had several development projects and several have.
 received extensions on their abatements. I know that's little, but that real tall line, that's the 300 project. The size, scope, and complexity of this project, I believe made it more vulnerable to the COVID, the LaSalle closure.
 and the assessment schedule, which can be quite complicated. So if nothing is gained here, I want the public to be armed with accurate information of how this works. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you, I want you to give this careful and serious consideration for our city, for the long run.
 Perhaps put aside some hurt feelings and move along and we can do better. The sermon last Sunday was about grace. And I think we need a little grace here. Grace for everybody, not just grace for some people. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you. You have any additional before I move to my colleagues? Oh, I was asking if he had more to present. Yes. Okay. Thank you.
 Lyle Hardman again. And returning to the memorandum of understanding that we presented to you, Mr. Matthews represents to the council that if this memorandum of understanding is adopted and passed and he breaches it, he has agreed that the council can pass a resolution that will eliminate the tax abatement in its entirety as an enforcement mechanism, not just the 62%.
 but in its entirety. Secondly, at the prior meetings, there's been a number of talk about the Redevelopment Commission litigation, which centers around the grocery store. Without commenting on the validity of that litigation, although I note, according to my case, the Matthews defendants have filed a motion to dismiss, which the trial court has not yet ruled upon, but the
 With respect to that litigation, that has nothing to do with the tax abatement. That is separate and apart litigation with the Redevelopment Commission over the issue of the grocery store. So, again, I've been at both meetings. I understand the council's concerns. Mr. Matthews understands the council concerns, which is why we have drafted the memorandum of understanding. And we urge the council to look at it and consider it.
 and recognize that we are concerned about our neighbors and we are concerned about doing the right thing. And this memorializes that. Thank you very much for your time. And if the council would like, I could read the memorandum again, or if it's not necessary, just let me know. No, it's not. I think we just got copies from the clerk's office. So that's sufficient. All right. Thank you again for your time and consideration. Thank you. At this time, I will turn. Dr. Davis? Mr. Davis would like, again, and to be clear,
 This counsel can pass a resolution if he's in breach of the memorandum of understanding that eliminates 100% of the tax debate. Thank you. Thank you. That being said, I'll turn to my colleagues to see if there's any questions of the petitioners. Seeing none, I will turn to the public at this time.
 We will have the public portion of the meeting. Each member of the public is invited to address to council. We ask that you please state your name and residential address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter on this resolution of this bill.
 So if you're here to speak in favor, please come up to the mic and state your name and residential address. And if you do not wish to speak, but you are in favor, can you show your hand in the audience? Thank you. My name is Ryan Conrath, 401 East Colfax Avenue, Suite 277. I'm the IT Administrator at Matthews LLC, Administrator of Matthews Fiber, and IT Contractor for the 300 East LaSalle Project.
 As a member of the Matthews team, I directly witnessed the impact of construction delays caused by the material shortages and contractor availability. The Matthews maintenance team often filled the gaps to keep the project moving forward. For example, when granite countertops were delayed, our maintenance lead sourced large slabs of butcher block, and the team handcrafted butcher block countertops for at least 40 apartments so that tenants could move it on time. Another snag in the project timeline hit when doors and frames arrived months behind schedule.
 To keep my part on track, I personally worked 16-hour days installing access control hardware to ensure my team wouldn't be the bottleneck holding everything else up. While the construction period lasted longer than planned, the project created many jobs. In addition to all of the contract labor, this project also directly employed dozens of people and changed several lives, my own included.
 Thanks to David Matthews, I was able to provide for my family through a global pandemic that saw unprecedented unemployment and come out on the other side with a successful career and a promising future. The 300 East LaSalle project has been a blessing, not just for me and my family, but for the neighborhood and the city as well. There are 144 apartments in that building, and over 90% of them are occupied. That's 130 taxpaying households that now live in the neighborhood, with many of them being new to the area.
 If it weren't for this project, this would still just be an empty parking lot generating next to nothing in tax revenue, and those 130 households would have found apartments in Mishawaka or Granger instead. David Matthews' claim regarding construction delays caused by material shortages and contractor availability is well supported by the project timeline. While the City may have concerns, I believe the reasons for opposing the resolution are unfounded. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Amanda Govert-Conrath. I live at 1015 College Street. While I'm not an employee of David Matthews, my husband, who you just heard from, my daughter, and my son, who no longer works for Matthews, but was employed by Matthews,
 I have had a front row seat to the development of 300 East LaSalle. I watched it go from an empty lot to a hole in the ground to the beautiful building that it is now. I have been up close as Team Matthews has stayed professional, roadblock after roadblock. The staff is incredibly dedicated and have worked long hours to make this project what it is today. They made what seemed impossible possible.
 And now those same dedicated employees are facing another roadblock. What message does that send to them and their families? Across the street from this development are two others that are languishing unfinished. Where is the public flogging for those developers? What does South Bend have to gain by grabbing the pitchforks? I must ask myself, this is really how we want South Bend to operate. Most of you up there have spoken about unity and teamwork. Where is the unity with the residents of South Bend?
 You need us when it comes time to vote, but in between, you also need us. You need us to believe in your ability to govern fairly. On a personal note, David Matthews is none of the things that he has been portrayed as. He is not a master manipulator. He's the guy who hired my husband during a pandemic and made it so we could stay in our home. He's the guy who mentored my children during their first jobs out of high school. We need more of David Matthews in South Bend, not less. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, Rebecca Kaiser, 913 Diamond Avenue. I did not come here tonight to speak on this resolution. I came to ask why we haven't been able to get our streetlights on for four months, but I think this is important. I don't know David Matthews any more than to say hi and through some of our mutual friends.
 But I think that unfortunately, there's a little pettiness going on in the Common Council. For the last couple of years, the things that come up in the newspaper have nothing to do with good government and David Matthews. They have to do with personality traits. And that's bad government. The young man has worked his bottom off.
 to get the East Race to where we hoped it would be when we made the East Race. And I am old enough to have been one of the first people to work the Olympic trials when the East Race was built. I'm also old enough not to really give a you-know-what about being politically correct anymore. Six years ago, yes. Now, no. You're wrong. You know you're wrong. The people here know you're wrong.
 It's time we fess up and say that we've been a little petty and a little quick to judge, and we didn't take into consideration the fact that Americans couldn't even get toilet paper, and this young man was trying to get building supplies. I hope you reconsider. Thank you. My name is Roger Parent. I live at 917 Whitehall Drive in South Bend, Indiana, 46615.
 David Matthews is fulfilling the vision that I and the City Council of the 1980s had for the East Race. The East Race cost $40 million in today's dollars, and it was very difficult to get it done. It was controversial, and we did. There were many projects that people worked hard for over the years. Let me just say that politicians, elected officials, mayors over the years worked very hard
 to create and to sow the seeds for what has happened today. We went, it took 60 years to go from the South Bend that was losing all the heavy industries to a very vibrant city. 60 years it took. People sowed seeds along the way. I remember...
 the first source ban for example city council members were asked to approve the payment of the parking garage under it before we knew for sure that anything would happen there the east race was not easy but then let's talk about the four winds field very controversial and the city council of that day voted for it eight to one
 In spite of the fact that 60% of the people in South Bend didn't want it, they opposed it. You know, cities have to create the environment for developers to come forth, to put their money, to take the risk. Sorry, that's a bad one. Things happen along the way. So a developer comes forth, makes good faith promises.
 and then finds out that COVID is coming along or the grocery store that was going to be in the company is sold out. You just never know really what's going to happen along the way. The city has to create the environment to have people come in and take these risks. I've been around, as you know. I sat in the 4th District seat for eight years.
 And I sat upstairs in the mayor's office for eight years. And I can tell you, I would have given an arm and a leg to get the kind of apartment project that Mr. Matthews has built there. This is not about David Matthews, whether you like or don't like him. It's also not about Mary Mueller.
 It's about you making the right decision for the people of South Bend, Indiana. I can't tell you how happy I was when I heard about a grocery store. I tried to get a grocery store on the east side and got one, and it failed in about a year. So we've got to help to move these people along. I'm sorry? Speaking on behalf. Please mute yourself. We can hear you. All right. Thank you very much.
 uh for this time i realize the difficult position that you're in but please make the right decision thank you my name is john monzonski and my address is 615 preston drive south bend 46615 so i would argue that beginning with mayor parent and continuing on through uh mayor buddha judge and everyone in between the city of south bend has had a vision for for the downtown
 And I would also argue there's probably no one who has helped the city of South Bend more in achieving that vision of a vibrant downtown urban core than Mr. Matthews in all of his various developments.
 And it just doesn't seem right to me that the city would punish someone who has been so helpful in moving our city along in that direction. And I know, you know, I applaud our current city administration for its vision for the future of downtown and the whole urban area. And I think it is.
 With all of with that entire vision as well, and like many other people here today, I mean, I have benefited from Mr. Matthews projects. The I mean, I go I use his grocery store now that it's open. And the Commerce Center is incredible.
 is probably one of the neatest things in the city that too many people don't know about. I mean, it is in many senses, if you haven't been over there, I recommend that you, you go over there because there's some really nifty things in that building. And I would compare it. The thing that it is that I, I see it most like in actually is the old 100 center in Mishawaka in that it is a really vibrant place that, that, that,
 gives things that never would have a chance otherwise. And there are kinds of things that people like.
 If you've never been to Merriman's Playhouse, the jazz club that's there, it's fantastic. It is just it's the kind of thing that you would find in the East Village in New York City. And it's here in South Bend. And it's here because of David Matthews gives them the space. Also, the Culture Cafe there. I check that place out. That is a really nifty. It's a nifty business. Very, very cool. The Cat Lady Cafe. What a what a concept, right? Cats, cats.
 Cats and coffee, you know, I mean, and then there's the incubator for all of these restaurants. And so it's a place where some of those tiny operations are moving on to other permanent places within downtown. So Mr. Matthews has provided an invaluable service for the city of South Bend with all of these projects, and it seems remarkable.
 It just seems so wrong to to to punish him somehow. And I think especially with his just the letter of understanding that he has put forth this evening. How can you turn that down when he's saying he's got a hundred percent? I mean, come on. It's just impossible, you know, and I just urge you to to.
 to allow the extension. So thank you very much. Thank you. Jesse Davis, PO Box 10205, South Bend, Indiana. So I'm usually seen as a villain at these meetings or online because I come here to complain a lot. So tonight I just want to say, look, last meeting, I talked about honesty, transparency, and some dignity from our elected –
 I'm not even going to call you officials because to me, you're not officials. You're a representative. You were elected to represent not only me, but every other person in this room and everybody in this community. And it's very clear just by the people representing in this room, the way they feel that you should vote on this.
 I personally have not benefited from any of Mr. Matthews' projects, but I can say I know where Mr. Matthews resided prior to him doing his very first project, and I'm not trying to dodge it, but it was on Manchester Street.
 Mr. Matthews was involved in the double billing by a dirty contractor that was brought to the city's attention back in 2010. That's what I sued the city about in 2010. I brought that up last week or at the last council meeting. The other thing that's really interesting is how many other.
 places, developers, companies have gotten these tax abatements that I come up here and complain about. I'm not in favor of tax abatements normally. But guess what? I sat in this council room every council meeting since probably almost 2010, and I heard nothing but the citizens tell you that they wanted a grocery store downtown, they wanted a pharmacy downtown. I saw numerous council members. Many of them aren't here anymore. Right.
 Say, hey, yeah, we need this stuff downtown again to bring our downtown back. Now you got it. And guess what? Now you want to throw this guy under the bus because he took longer to accomplish this. He accomplished more than anybody's accomplished since at least 2010. Since I've been here listening to you guys talk about food deserts, food deserts alone.
 I remember the Osco drug downtown. I remember it very well. You guys have asked for this and these amenities. They're here. You don't follow through and make other people follow through with their tax abatement deals. Half the time you turn your heads and ignore it. We've ended up with empty factory buildings and we've ended up with cleanup jobs. I mean, let's go back and-
 You know, give us an idea of how many of these tax abatements have ever been fulfilled and how many that haven't been fulfilled. Have you guys went after the person like you're going after Mr. Matthews right now? I call bullshit because I'm not politically correct. Thank you. Hello, members of the council. Adam McMillan, 215 East Colfax Avenue. Thank you for your time. I support the bill 2420, obviously, and I ask you to as well.
 I personally feel that the issue, if looked at for what it is and dismissing what it is not, is pretty clear. A partnership was made to build a project. That project got delayed, mainly due to an unforeseeable global catastrophe that I hope no one ever has to experience again. Yet the project was still built and finished, and it might have even been marked 100% complete on time had the assessor not visited six months early, just due to the nature of the beast.
 The issue and the bill is just granting a bit of goodwill and empathy for the delay. I'm sure we all experienced turbulence and delays in our own lives during that time, but we can all walk 10 minutes northeast of here and go see the project for ourselves. It's real and it's finished and the many people who live and enjoy it there. From what I've gathered, the dissenting arguments seem to be mainly falling into two or three categories. One category is technicalities and unrelated issues.
 Another is about strict adherence to due dates and contracts. Yet there are more than a handful of examples of the council and the city being gracious and empathetic with developers in this regard, especially for projects of larger size and capacity. The last category seems to be motivated by opinions about a person and some of the ways he runs his business. I'm not here to say that those opinions aren't valid. The point of opinions is to have and to voice them. That is our right.
 Yet it feels like the dissenting arguments and opinions are issues for another meeting. And we just heard a memorandum to fix at least another number of them, which is great. I hope that all the parties can at some point get together and have a coffee or beer and actually get to know each other. That said, I would imagine if most any other developer in town was here for this exact bill and project, it would be a non-issue and passed easily and quickly. Passing this bill will only benefit the city, future projects, and future investments.
 I support Bill 2420 and ask you to as well. Thank you for your empathy and understanding in this situation and thank you for your time. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Larry Clifford. I live at 709 East Washington Street in South Bend. I've been a property owner and voter in South Bend for almost 50 years. You may know me as the resurrect the roses guy. We've been working on that project in Leeper Park
 a group of volunteers to resurrect that garden which was a dead and dying spot in the city of south bend in the same way that dave has taken a vacant lot and turned it into an amazing thing i don't really know dave all that well but i can relate to him the the work that we do in the resurrect the roses garden the blood the sweat literally the blood those thorns can be very difficult
 Dave has done the same thing against amazing odds. The real question for the city council today is, what is it that keeps us doing these things? It's a desire for bettering the city. What is it that you want to accomplish?
 You want to encourage people to do these kinds of things, whether it's a garden or whether it's taken a vacant lot and turning into a massive structure, you want to encourage that, but are you going to be able to encourage it with this kind of,
 i don't know the nicest thing i can say is the the nonsense that's gone on with this prior to this evening prior to today you need to do what's best for the city today approve this uh this 24 20 and i appreciate your time thank you thank you
 Good evening. My name is David Guthrie. I live at 122 North St. Louis Street. I work at 121 North Michigan Street. I walked to work today and then I walked here from work. And I have wanted for 15 years to live in a city where I don't have to own a car. And I walk to work. I can walk to the grocery. I can go and have fun.
 And it seems like that vision is starting to come true. And Dave Matthews has very clearly been a big part of it. And I wanted to voice my support for him. Thank you. Thanks. Good evening. My name is Darren Batiste. The address is five three one three Bracken Fern, South Bend, Indiana. I want to speak tonight. I've heard a lot of vinegar. So tonight I want to be sweet. And one, I want to applaud the council members for setting a precedent.
 because when it comes to issues of development and it comes to issues of what's in the best interest of the city, you guys have a gleaming record of doing what's right. You've already granted 14 extensions. You set a precedent in the city of South Bend for doing what's right when it comes to projects of development of this nature. And so with precedence, there's an expectation to continue in that path. And so either you continue to do what's right and keep your gleaming record,
 or you show a glaring double standard. And so I hope that you guys continue to do the great job that you've done and continue to grant extensions when it's warranted. And tonight is a perfect night of one that is warranted. That's all I got to say. Thank you. Good evening. I'm glad to see you all. And I wish you all well. My name is Dr. Kim Tuska. I live at 1710 Haas Drive.
 I'm here today to report on what I've seen from the council, city, and opposition to the advancements in the city made by Matthews LLC. The city and the council made it possible to build the building located at 300 East LaSalle by offering a tax abatement for 10 years. The city and the council wanted this building in downtown South Bend. Without this support, the building would not have been built.
 50 million would not have been spent without the city and council's assistance. Any reversal in the city's and the council's position shows a lack of rectitude to follow through and continue to assist in making this major project that they enabled a success. The city and council are stakeholders in the success of this project. This is not about Matthews LLC.
 This is about the commitment that was made by the city and council to move forward with this major project that has had many barriers that were unforeseen and were not planned. Still, it has found its way to completion and now provides homes for families and their pets as well as parking and a grocery store. The residents of Carle King Apartments shop at the grocery and are thankful for the collaboration
 that has enabled the grocery store and other services provided now in the Century Center. There is a pharmacy that delivers social services of Medicaid for children, families, the disabled, the elderly, and low-income working individuals. There's also nursing home assistance, nutritional assistance through the SNAP program, which the grocery store is in the process of becoming a vendor, assistance with job skills, temporary assistance,
 temporary financial assistance for needy families and assistance for disabled individuals as well as the farmers market jazz venue and small businesses none of this was there when matthews l l c bought the building the city and council should be proud of their participation in making the east race market and apartments a reality without the tax abatement it would not have happened
 it would still be a large parking lot. The hope for a grocery store would still be out there. There would be fewer families in downtown and there would be less future tax revenue. This is not about David Matthews. This is about the City Council's continued cooperation with businesses who take a risk to improve South Bend. Matthews LLC
 The council and the city together made this project possible and cooperation is still needed. There's a dark cloud looming called bias. In the council, I have seen bias against David Matthews. This bias prevents impartial decisions concerning Matthews LLC. In other city councils, bias is reason enough for voting members to recuse themselves from voting on anything where one could not remain impartial.
 That would be the honorable position for a council member to take. I also found it interesting that two of our four who spoke in opposition two weeks ago to David Matthews live in the townhomes that Matthews LLC has built. Matt Bartlett, although I'm sure he's a very nice man, one of the homeowners, spoke of code enforcement violations because he is one who calls enforcement regularly.
 As a lawyer, his comments were not directed to Matthews LLC and the abatement issue at hand, but were focused on throwing stones at David Matthews.
 In my opinion, it is a very self-righteous position, especially for one who will be judged as he judges others. So I'm asking the council to reaffirm their cooperation with Matthews LLC, refute the bias, and enable the East Race Market and Apartments to continue to serve the families and our community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Monica Hoban. I live at 337 West North Shore Drive, 46617. I'm a lifetime South Bend resident. I've been a homeowner here for the past 38 years, and I'm currently a business owner. I'm also proud to call David Matthews my friend. I've known David for probably 20, 25 years. I've always...
 Enjoyed chatting with him, finding out new ideas that he's got and what he's got coming up in our community. I'm also old enough to remember South Bend before David Matthews, before a lot of would-be David Matthews, before we had a vibrant downtown where you could go and walk and have a nice lunch somewhere. The East Race was not even in existence then.
 own a charcuterie business, and I'm in one of the incubator spaces inside the Commerce Center. David Matthews made that happen for me. I wanted to be a business owner, but I didn't want to do it illegally out of my home kitchen. I didn't want to put my house on the line. I retired from Notre Dame. This is a second career for me.
 He made it happen because of the incubator space, allowed me to have a space where I could get my health department certification. And not only that, he has been a fabulous mentor to me. I've been there for a year and a half.
 The spaces are two years and then you move on. Well, I am able to start looking for a permanent space outside of the incubator in the Commerce Center because David has been there to help me hold my hand. Well, not hold my hand, but just help me, guide me, tell me what I need to do because I'm not a business owner until now. He has a wealth of information there.
 So he has helped me. He's helping all of his incubator people. I shop at the grocery store. I am thrilled to have a grocery store within two miles of my home. I'm thrilled to have a grocery store out the back door of my business so that I can go and get the things that I need. I think that we've heard a lot of great words here tonight. Pitchfork. Oh, my God, Becky.
 I couldn't have said it better. Is that the message we want to send to out-of-towners? Come to South Bend and bring your business here. Bring your construction. Build your new whatever. But we're going to be there with pitchforks. No, that's not what we want. We also heard about bias. I think that's also another good word tonight. And then the last word that I'm going to comment on is not a word, a sentence.
 I'm not a gambler. I'm not willing to go and get the financing and what is needed to help make our city better by putting up 300 LaSalle. David Matthews, he's the guy who had the kahunas to do it, okay? So you need to ask yourself, are we better off with 300 LaSalle? I think we are.
 And I think that that's what it's about. Let's continue to try and keep that in town, in South Bend, keep the grocery store going. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Zach Braswell. I live at 820 North Niles Avenue. Speak from notes on my phone here.
 I moved from Arizona about 10 years ago, and honestly, I didn't think much of South Bend. It just happened to be a place where a pretty girl lived, and I moved here to marry her, and she said yes, I'm thankful for that. But then I met David. His passion for South Bend was infectious. I remember when he walked me down street by street and pointed to every single business.
 and named the business owner by their first name, told me what they'd accomplished, and told me what they wanted to do. It became very clear that this was a man who was passionately involved in his community. Ultimately, he was the key in my decision to stay and the fact that I fell in love with South Bend. I began working for him as he approached a massive project, now known as 350 East LaSalle. I was intimately involved in the construction of the building.
 We set out originally to improve downtown South Bend, and I feel that we've done that. It was our team's blood, sweat, and tears. David stands accused of much, but now I look down LaSalle and I see a building built with precision and care, with a grocery store, and with a pharmacy, with all of these great other amenities that people need.
 have all gone into tonight. And I think I'm proud of what I did, even though I'm not on the DMTM team anymore. None of that would have happened without David Matthews' personal investment, care, and attention to detail. I can speak at length on the supply shortages that we faced
 And perhaps the things that stand out the most is debating whether it made sense to drive an hour and a half north to get drywall mud because we couldn't get enough for the building. I remember pivoting and hooking up our trailer to the truck and driving to every store that we could think of to buy butcher blocks so we could get countertops in. I remember teaching people how to build cabinets. So, so many cabinets. I remember driving to Chicago to offload a truck that had come in.
 All of these stories and more I could go on and on and on about the great effort that went into making this building happen and happen on time. I can truly say there was no expense spared. To think that after such an effort with no expense spared, tens of thousands of hours in man effort, that this would be punished. Each of us as Southbenders have some version of ownership in the building given the tax abatements in place.
 It would be folly to argue that our city, us personally, have not greatly benefited from the existence of 300. I implore the council to hold the abatements on the basis of fairness towards DNTM, given the fact that other projects have received an extension. Ultimately, I'll end with this. I chose to raise my family here because I found it to be a place where I can make a meaningful difference. I implore you not to punish and penalize those who are trying so desperately to make a better future. Operate by the facts.
 South Bend needs developments, and there's a $41 million one sitting there where there was once an empty lot. Further, Dave Matthews has made movements to address all of the issues that the council has brought to him. I'd like to finish by asking a question. I looked up the mission statement of the city council. It follows, to make certain that our city government is always responsive to the needs of our residents, and that the betterment of South Bend is always our highest priority.
 Given the facts, can you truly, in good faith, claim that this development has not furthered that mission? Can you honestly say that stopping the extension would serve the people of South Bend? I, for one, can't. Thank you.
 Hi, good evening. Max Bender, 51605 Bluffside Court. Up until April of this year, I actually lived in the 300 East LaSalle building. I no longer live downtown South Bend, but I figured it was important for you all to hear my perspective.
 When I first moved to downtown South Bend, there was not a chance, not a single chance I would have moved downtown without a building like the one that David has built. There is nothing else downtown that even comes close to what David has built. If it was not for this building, I would be living in Mishawaka and I would still be living in Mishawaka. After living downtown for the past year or so, it pained me to see what the council and the mayor thought.
 or how little support the council and the mayor gives developers like David Matthews. Looking at Mishawaka, seeing their mayor and their council show up to every opening, watching them pour money into downtown Mishawaka, and we can't even... I mean, we're fighting over a few months here. I mean, it's really sad to see. So yeah, I support 2420. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Lisa Borden and I live at 2932 3rd Street in Niles, Michigan. Although I was a business owner in River Park for over 30 years, the old River Park Theater, I can speak to as a small business owner and just the massive need for redevelopment. So just owning that building alone and him having the Commerce Center is just amazing to me. So...
 In addition, I'm a property manager. I recently joined David's team. Did I need to do that? No, I was actually moving to retirement and I was going to manage a small art studio. And then David reached out and I really listened to his passion about South Bend, his visions and his dreams. And I thought, you know what? Retirement can wait. I'm going to join this team.
 so I don't love public speaking but David's worth it and his project's worth it so I'm up here doing it and just saying you know it's pretty amazing and he's making differences and I want to be a part of that team thank you
 Hi, my name is Andréana Luz-Spilger. I was the assistant property manager who helped open... Do please state your address for the record, please. Yeah, I lived at 300 East LaSalle, Unit 912, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I lived in the building while I was also assistant property manager. And then I also, I was assistant to Heather Braswell, who was the property manager at the time. And I would like to read the note that she wrote for the council.
 I would like to start by thanking you for taking the time to read this letter. I was a resident of the city of South Bend, Indiana for nearly two years and came to fall in love with its small city charms. From the rolling rapids of the East Race to the incredibly walkable downtown area, South Bend will always hold a place in my heart. I moved to South Bend, Indiana during some of the hardest years of my life. I had recently escaped an abusive marriage.
 Packed everything I owned in my little car and drove to South Bend when nothing except my little dog and the hope that my brother wasn't lying when he said South Bend is a great place to start over. Looking for work amidst the craziness of the pandemic was agonizing. I rented a small bedroom and struggled to make ends meet. Determined to start over, I began to live life with my brother and sister-in-law who introduced me to the Matthews family.
 While at first we were just friends, David Matthews' love for South Bend and the city development was contagious. When David invited me to be a part of his team, I was shocked as I had nearly no experience. When I asked him why he would hire me, he told me that he believed in the potential of good people who had integrity and were willing to work hard.
 I reported to work on the very first day, nervous and with a severe case of imposter syndrome. David believed in the woman I couldn't see anymore, and he poured his time into training me. In the two years I worked for him, I grew from a battered woman afraid of her own shadow to a confident woman ready to face the world. He taught me how to lead with integrity, invest in people, and be brave in the face of bullies.
 As to be expected, there were things I didn't like about working for David. He's independent, will not take no for an answer, and has no idea how intimidating he is.
 But I soon believed that the prickly sides of David were also his greatest strengths. Someone who is passive, insecure, unintelligent, and fearful cannot hope to accomplish even half of what David has done. I am honored to have worked besides David, and I am proud of what we have accomplished together. To support Bill 2420 is to believe in a man who believes in your city.
 David Matthews is asking for an extension because he has attempted to accomplish what no one else has. Roll your eyes when he blames COVID for construction delays, but I personally worked side by side with him at 3 a.m. running fire watch around the clock for over five months. I also did this. I was there when we scrub paint off the luxury vinyl floors at midnight. I was there for that, too. I clocked back into work with David after a nine hour shift to help bail buckets of water off the eighth floor when someone hit the fire line.
 David, his team, and myself have worked countless hours striving to complete a task that felt impossible, finish the building. Seriously, if you live at 300 East LaSalle, it's highly likely that I cried in your apartment. Why would we? Because David's work ethic, commitment to building South Bend, and willingness to invest in people is contagious.
 As Americans, we believe in small business, ingenuity, hard work, and the power of an individual willing to risk it all to accomplish great things. 300 Eastless Island, the East Race Market, are products of these beliefs.
 Will you punish the very values your city was built on by denying this extension when you have already provided it to countless other projects? Will the hours of labor poured into this project be in vain as we watch the dream we've worked so hard for be shut down by this very city that is meant to be benefit?
 All because you're not willing to grant a one-year extension. Three weeks before the building opened, I moved to Reno, Nevada to be near my family. I took with me the values I learned from David. It is my hope and prayer that we share these values. I hope you will lead with integrity and fairness, offering to David Matthews what has already been offered to other projects.
 I hope you will invest in the people who have labored tirelessly to make South Bend a safer, more connected community. I hope you will stand up to those who would shut down the project through uncalled for, unprecedented means. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Rebecca Miller. I actually live in Lakefield, but I work at 401 East Colfax Avenue. I run River Valley Farmers Market.
 And I was looking for a place to run a farmer's market in 2019. And I talked to several different people, different business owners, and either they weren't ready to do renovations on their spots or some of them were just investors that didn't live here and I couldn't get a hold of them. We'd make appointments and they weren't in town at that time. When I talked to David, he was like, yeah, when do you want to start?
 And we were in there in like two weeks. He had his workers, which he had a small crew at that time. And they still it was a storage room. They cleared out the storage room. We painted. We got it going in two weeks time and we were up and running. I couldn't find that in anybody else.
 We were probably about the first ones, I believe, to start in the Commerce Center as retail. And at that time, the style project was basically just a hole there. It had been halted. I believe maybe the council had concerns about the grocery store Martins pulling out, but the project had stopped that time.
 In the past four and a half years, I've watched it grow. I've watched it be built. I've lived through the delays. I've lived through COVID. We kept our business going. Dave always encouraged us, always helped us. Since then, we've had a lot of different businesses move into the Commerce Center.
 And I think one of the things that as successful business owners know, we know we all need each other. It's not about competition. It's about working together and encouraging each other. And we have such an incredible group of businesses in there from other businesses, from the vendors that sell at the farmer's market. We have close to 30 different vendors in there. And I would say probably about a third of those are minorities. Almost all are women-owned businesses.
 And it gives them an opportunity to start small, to test the waters, to grow their business. And we wouldn't have that opportunity if we didn't have the Commerce Center and the apartments next door and the grocery store. It was exciting when we started getting the first residents in there. They come over and shop. The other apartment dwellers in the area come and shop.
 Um, it's, it's been a really wonderful experience. I think it's great for the community. I think when we have customers come in, visitors come in, friends come in, they're really excited about what's going on right there. You know, like, oh, this is great. We can come here. We can go over to the grocery store. I have handicapped customers that have talked about how they can't go to a grocery store unless they have a big project, a big project.
 busing trip and they can get to the store and they're really excited about EBT coming. So I think it's a very good boon to the community. I think we need it. I think we want to encourage this more and not discourage it. I think we need to give every help we can because this is something that actually is working. It's not somebody sitting there with a building that they own and not doing anything with it. It's actually things are being done throughout the whole thing, throughout the project, even with the apartments being put in.
 There were still updates to the Commerce Center. The Commerce Center is a very old building. It's a beautiful building, historical building. I love it. I think it's gorgeous. But there have been projects in there that David has been updating restrooms, redoing patios, all kinds of different improvement projects. And if you guys haven't been in there in a while, I encourage you to come. I'll be there tomorrow. Usually my son works there, but I'll be there. I'd love to visit with you all. So thank you.
 Hi, my name is Blair Gingrich and I am from Elkhart. And so you're probably wondering why do I care what's going on over there at East LaSalle. So I actually am the pharmacist who works at HealthyURX, the second location that Jada has opened. And I want you to understand the kind of pharmacy that you got because a pharmacy can be –
 like a CVS or a Walgreens where there's not a lot of attention given to the patients that come in, or you can get Jada Bush's pharmacy, which is a whole different world. Just so you know, Jada was the DM of Walgreens in Chicago. Okay. She knows what she's doing, but what she did in South bend is she has two locations and the one in the commerce center,
 We have bilingual pharmacists there. We have, so we're able to take care of our Spanish speaking population so they can actually understand what they're taking and not have to go home confused and try to figure it out from their aunt.
 We have delivery services that go all over multiple counties, actually. So we take care of the people who can't get out of their house or maybe that single mother who doesn't want to get all the kids back out onto the road again to go get pickup for medications. So we don't need a drive-through because we'll take the meds to your house.
 We also do blister packing free of charge because Jada believes that's what you do for people. So if you have an elderly family member who forgets to take their medication, go to Jada's pharmacy, have us blister pack that for your family member, and then you can keep track of how well they're doing with their medications and maybe prevent them from having to go into more of an assisted living situation.
 On top of that, I've spoken to countless people who've come into our pharmacy, and they're so thankful that they can walk to a pharmacy now. They're thankful that we take the time to answer their questions. We battle out with their insurance. Oh, by the way, we take all insurances except for MDYs, so that's most of the area, actually. Martin's recently shut down their delivery services from their pharmacy, and they don't do blister packing anymore. Okay.
 So Jada's taken on those patients. We also have contracts with group homes, and we're taking care of the underserved people in your county. So I think – I hope that I'm making the point here that you got a gem when you got Jada Bush to come in there. And you know why you got her? Because Dave Matthews reached out and asked her if she'd like to partner with him at the Commerce Center. So please, consider what you're giving up if you start to –
 pull back what you've already given out to David Matthews and all of the business owners who are benefiting from what you guys did when you extended that to him. Thanks, LeMah. Hello, my name is Mara Trean-Ferrell-Lucas. I live at 615 Rec Street in the near Northwest neighborhood. I confess to being very nervous to speak before you tonight because I am friends and colleagues and respect people on both sides of this issue.
 I also confess to being someone who reads the comments. I know you're not supposed to read the comments, but I read the comments. And it's been very sad for me as someone who loves South Bend to see how vile the comments have become on both sides, people attacking each other and being very divisive about this issue. And I wish that there would be more opportunity for a conversation to understand each side of the issue. I don't understand a lot about capital P politics.
 But I am a big partisan, small p, partisanship to South Bend. I know that there are several people who live in this building that enjoy living there and don't want to lose their homes. I know many people who are shopping at the grocery store and I myself have put in my requests for my items and they seem to appear. But I hope that...
 I hear a lot of chatter in the room tonight, a lot of audible sighing, people not necessarily listening or respecting all of the views that are coming up tonight. And I just hope that the council can transcend that.
 I don't know, again, a lot about the background, but the memorandum of understanding sounds like a really nice compromise to me. If we're trying to work together to promote business, to promote development and to be partisan to the city of South Bend and its growth and its vibrancy, I know that that.
 sounded like a good option to me. So I hope that people can kind of maybe between the pros and the against take a deep breath and think about what we can put piece together to make this issue. I do know Dave personally, I was a part of the SB 150 committee. I led one of the subcommittees and had a really hard time with that.
 And Dave kindly met with me and gave me the contrarian's guide to leadership to help me think through that has helped me set up my own LLC, which I hope someday to grow to be, again, something that will benefit the city. And so I know that, again, there are a lot of emotions around this issue. There's a lot of history I don't understand. And again, as I read a lot of the coverage, I read a lot of the comments. The thing that really comes to my mind is to what end?
 And to what end do we not provide an extension that we're giving to other people? What is the end game? And I hope that the end game can be that we all learn from each other. We all listen to each other. We all work together. We compromise. We give and we get. And we work together to build the city, to support this project that is benefiting all these wonderful people that we've heard from tonight and many that we haven't. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Kara Bauman. I live at 3532 Chevy Chase, 46615. I, too, admit to being a little nervous. I did not plan to speak, but also I had to follow Mara, so that can be a difficult thing to do.
 I moved here in 2008 with three young daughters. I was excited because I was a Notre Dame fan, thinking that's all South Bend was. I was wrong. I quickly learned that South Bend was not what I had hoped it would be. I cried about relocating here and wished I could go back. I didn't feel safe taking my children downtown. The first time I walked the East Bank because I Googled parks and Howard Park came up.
 I took them into the park and was quickly approached by someone who told me it was not safe to be there. Fast forward 16 years, those three girls are either in college or starting grad school.
 I'm proud of where I raised them, and quite a bit of that has to do with the vision of Dave Matthews and the projects he's completed, the way he has transformed our community. In May of last year, at the age of 42, I gave birth to my fourth daughter, and I'm excited to raise her in a city where anything is possible, where there's new development happening everywhere, and where residents love their city. A typical Friday night for my family at this point looks a little bit different than it did just a handful of years ago.
 I am also friends with Dave Matthews and several people in this room as we would bar hop and have fun downtown. It now looks like my one-year-old, my husband and I having dinner at Howard Pork, another business of Dave Matthews, and walking to the grocery store to pick up essentials before going home because it is very real to be a mother and to feel like you will have to lose your mind if you have to make one more stop on the way home somewhere else.
 So it is a blessing to be able to walk and do those things as part of a nightly routine and enjoy it. In 2013, I remember sitting down with Dave in his living room asking for candid business advice. He asked me tough questions. And before one of my last answers, I laughed and uttered the words, don't judge me for this. We often say that. We're going to tell the truth. Don't judge me for this. I will never forget Dave's response. He said, I may judge you, but I won't reject you.
 I ask you, Council, to do the same. Recognize what Matthews LLC has accomplished for our city, putting aside any personal feelings or judgments about Dave Matthews himself. Feel free to judge him all you want, but on behalf of the residents of South Bend, please do not reject the 300 LaSalle extension. I support 2420. Thank you. Hi, my name is Ryan Hill, 2634 Tamarack Place, South Bend, Indiana.
 I actually grew up in the city and I left for 10 years. So coming back and seeing the kind of development, I remember writing an email to a young mayor running for office about the East Race and how it was one of our assets
 Wasn't used at all back then. It was old tin houses and overgrown. Coming back, it's a whole new thing. So I appreciate that kind of development. My background in education is actually in public policy, partially because growing up here in that kind of situation in town, it's really interesting to me to see
 I really wanted to study what made a city come alive or what helped cause issues. And one of the things that I remember looking at when I saw the kind of the overview of the agreement for this building, this complex is holy cow. He said he was going to go grocery store in a pharmacy in there. If you study city development right now, that's one of the big issues around the country is we are seeing those close.
 It's very hard to get a permanent grocery store. It's they're not profitable businesses in a lot of cases. Pharmacies, we've just seen the wave of closures from CVS and Walgreens, Rite Aid is getting rid of their pharmacies. So him successfully managing to attract and do those, even though the grocery store has been particularly bumpy, I feel like it's hard to underrate even the experience of supporting those businesses as other work around the city has done.
 So on the policy side, I found that to be a really important thing to consider what has come of this. The other thing that I wanted to mention is someone mentioned earlier to kind of think about to what end. In policy, we always want to really think with humility and remember that the ripple effects of what we can do can be really dangerous. I did my master's in Denver actually, so I got a chance to study a city really coming to life and growing.
 And one of the things that they really messed up is about 10 years before I went there, they had passed a law that really cracked down and made it easy to sue if there were certain defects if you were constructing a building that was selling condos.
 The end result of that was for 10 or 15 years, the city of Denver stopped building any of that mid-level downtown housing. And we all know they're kind of famous right now for being one of the most expensive cities in the country to live. And part of that was because of a heavy-handed policy decision where they really wanted to come down and legislate and make sure that developers were doing their job, but it wasn't conceived the way that it should have been and ended up having a huge ripple effect. David Elikwu
 So considering to what end, like we want these things, we're looking at Portage and I think it's Elway where Martin's and there used to be a CVS out there as well. All of that's gone. Like getting those kind of developments in other parts of the city is really important. I think encouraging that. Excuse me one second, Brian. I'm sorry. Could you please mute yourself? We can hear you in the audience. Thank you. Well, I'm not sorry. So, I mean, I think it's important to consider like.
 encouraging those kind of developments, making sure, especially with this MOU now that's addressing a lot of kind of outstanding sore points, I think, and there's probably more room to negotiate there and get a little bit more set up. But I think with the MOU in mind, with the potential implications of shutting down other developers or causing that uncertainty, I strongly urge supporting this bill. So thank you. Thank you.
 Hey there, my name is Jesse Schmiel. I live at 911 Royal Vineyards and I was born and raised in the city of South Bend. And I just want to say I am proud of the revitalization that we've seen in the last decade or so, especially the last decade or so, including the improvements that David Matthews has made. But something that's been in the public conversation for literally as long as I can remember is if the downtown area is to continue revitalizing,
 growing into the prosperous urban center that it can be, one staple to nurturing that growth is a grocery store. It's obvious, yet it never seemed to happen. Well, after a roller coaster of ups and downs, we finally have a grocery store with the potential to directly and indirectly bring in future tax revenue. It's barely on its feet with the community still learning of its existence, and it feels like the roller coaster continues with its fate in your hands.
 And that's really the headline, isn't it? Will you vote in favor of supporting a long-desired local business in our community or not? Or to put it another way, will you vote in favor of South Bend or not? This is quite literally a kitchen table issue. Whatever you decide, the eyes of your constituents are watching and will remember. And I thank you for your time. Thank you.
 My name is Nancy Yochum, and my address is 1438 East Madison Street. When I first got up, I was last in line, and so I said I'd be brief, and I will also. But I have been to three of the four meetings you've had on this topic, and when I look at it, I look at the overall, if you do not pass this resolution, this bill, I look at it, and I look at the overall, if you do not pass this resolution, this bill,
 it's going to have a very negative effect on South Bend. And we don't know what that ripple effect of negativity will be. And as I listened to everybody tonight, to me, only the both the city and Dave Matthews will benefit and gain from passing this. So look, I hope that you would look to make our city better and,
 The city will get more money. That's what we're looking for. People will want to live here. But the upside of passing this is huge. The downside is terrible. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Sharon Teska, 508 South 23rd Street, South Bend. And I almost wasn't going to come up and speak because I was, everything I wrote out, Dr. Davis said in his benediction.
 today that we need to look to the heart and to God for whatever supreme being of your belief for guidance because any decision that comes from the standpoint of love, guidance and respect for humanity of all viewpoints can't help but be the right choice.
 So the path of bringing that kind of cooperation and love, it fosters trust and community, brings communities together. So take a moment before actually make a decision to consider the perspective of love, compassion, and humanity. Thank you for your time.
 Hi, I'm Esther Venerbal. We own a medical building on 16605 State Road 23. I'm in favor of this resolution 2420. When I moved here almost 14 years ago, downtown South Bend was definitely not the place for me to go. I didn't like to go there. I didn't feel safe. But now I feel it's nice to go there with my kids and do stuff.
 And so I think we need risk-taking people like David Matthews to make South Bend a better place. So thank you. Hi, good evening, everybody. I'm Dr. Hadi and I'm Esther's wife. So of course, I agree with whatever she said. However, I would say my own prospects on David Matthews. I don't know David Matthews much. I have been lucky enough to know him.
 his wife, Mrs. Velvet Canada, who is here tonight. Why is it relevant? Velvet was our office project manager. She delivered that right on time. And behind every man is a great woman. But even a great woman like Mrs. Velvet Canada could not beat COVID. I know Velvet and I know COVID as a physician. And I understand you may have some questions.
 issues technically. I'm a physician. I'm not anything to know, you know, not somebody who knows anything about law details of this. What I think, whatever caused you to vote against David Matthews in this case, I've been many times in my life wrong. When I taught again, how much do I lose if I change my mind? I've never been more proud of the times that I changed my mind for the better. What is the big picture here?
 We have all our own opinions, ideas, the way we think, our bias. I have my own. But regardless of what I have, how much will it change if I change my opinion on this issue? Again, I told you, I know a great woman behind David. She would have done anything to get this project on time, as she did in our office. But even she could not be told. Unfortunately, many people fell because of COVID-19.
 And when I see that as a person, that this is my first experience to see this. I hope my heart will not be broken tonight. Thank you. Hi, Council. I'm Lee, 687 28th Street. I'm speaking on behalf of Local Vision Fund, which is the largest equity holder in 300 and made this project possible. I also want to first thank you for your time. And secondly, I really want to thank everyone that showed up today because...
 For a long time, as on the investor side, I genuinely felt like we got together this $41 million to invest in this project, and no one in South Bend cared about it, and no one appreciated it. And it genuinely hurt me, and it made me angry. So the first thing I want to talk about, which I think is really important, is that I want to address the misconceptions as it relates to the tax abatements.
 We talked about it earlier in committee, but I want to repeat it for those of you who was not there. So it is there is a misconception that if this bill were to be approved, the city would be losing hundreds of thousands of dollars. That is not true.
 The tax revenue on the original undeveloped parking lot is less than $1,000 per year, which has well continued to be paid. The tax abatement is more appropriately called a tax phase-in, is only on the increase in tax revenue because we, the investors, have poured in the money to make this project a reality and enabled the possibility of $660,000 of tax revenue per year that the city would collect in perpetuity after the tax phase-in.
 So why would the city give this tax abatement in the first place? It's because the city wanted this empty lot to be turned from $1,000 of tax revenue into $660,000 and from an empty, unsightly, unutilized lot into what it is today that many people have talked about, 144 units, 30,000 square feet of retail and office space, the grocery, the pharmacy, all of that. Right.
 The city benefits from this, but it's unable to do this on its own. The council is not going to go out there and build this building. It needs partners like the developer and the investors. But the investor and the developers will not sign up for this project if it is a money-losing project, which it often is in cities still in development. That is why the tax abatement was given in the first place.
 So, to remove it now by not extending the destination period means this project would not have been viable from the start. And even more so, as many of you know, this project went over budget by $14 million. So I want to talk about why the tax abatement puts this project into an automatic failure. It's that the city is then asking, who is footing the bill for that tax?
 It's the private parties. The city is asking the private parties to then put in approximately $4 to $5 million over the course of those 10 years on top of the $14 million that's already run over, on top of the $27 million that we have already agreed to in the original agreement. So I do think it's really important to illustrate this with some simple math because it may be abstract. So let's just imagine that we invested $10. Okay.
 to build this and it's now complete and we expect over 10 years the first three years for the project to not make money at all just to stabilize and lease up but the next seven we make two dollars a year so by the end of 10 years we will have made 14 minus the 10 we will have had a positive profit of four dollars okay and a break even at about year eight
 Now, with the COVID running over budget by $14 million, let's just imagine an equivalent of this example, $15 went in the project. Now, at the end of 10 years, same math. Well, 10.
 we will not have made money because the project will have only made $14 on revenue, but we have spent $15. Now, if the city during this time was not going to ask for tax revenue, now starts to ask for tax revenue and says, hey, you know what? I'm going to ask you to pay me
 We now want a dollar a year for the next 10 years. This means we will have put in $15. We will have had revenue of $14, but then we have to pay an additional tax of $10. That's $25 that we put in, but we only made $14. That's why this is so important that the tax abatement, not extending the designation period,
 which is equivalent to the city pulling out on the tax abatement, puts this project directly into failure. And so there was a councilman that said, hey, why bother? Because David is having so much trouble with other things anyway. I have a few things to say about that. There is one thing you missed, which is time. This project is able to continue and become more and more successful with time. So by extending the designation period, we have the time and the
 motivation. Actually, we're extraordinarily financially motivated to make this even more successful than before. I have one more point to make. So I do want to talk about COVID because this project... You have, excuse me, you have exceeded your time limit. Could I get someone else to help me? I will give you my notes. Thank you. If you can please give your name and address for the record and then you can continue. Cynthia Walter.
 9821 Banyan Court. Thank you. The construction delay is due because of COVID. The construction costs, if you just look between October 2020 and October in 2022, construction costs increased 35%. And this is in the construction industry at large, not just South Bend, but just at large. Okay.
 That's what happened in the United States with COVID. By now, we've started to forget what happened to COVID, but it was bad. The price of structural steel more than doubled. The price of lumber went up by 323%. I know for us, we were trying to buy OSB, and we're paying $90 for it when it used to be $3.
 It went up terribly. Over 90% of builders reported material shortages. Of course, that would have happened with this project too. Labor shortage. There were extreme labor. People couldn't get work. They couldn't work if they wanted to. The strain in the labor pool was unprecedented.
 lead times they were booked out so you couldn't even get workers. The delays generally were more than 200 days if you look at large scale construction projects during that time. About one in four projects were delivered more than 250 days late and yet one in ten was even over a year. So they did pretty good probably in even getting it done.
 The COVID, we know that 1.2 million Americans died. It was a national emergency. And through that, the project still worked. So the miracle of LaSalle is that it did get done. It is a building. It is there. And today, this project really did turn an empty parking lot, even with all the problems, into homes and retail, grocery and pharmacy. And...
 Even though the project went over budget, the private investors still continued to contribute. And that wasn't easy because they could have started blaming Mr. Matthews and just called discord. But instead, they decided to commit to South Bend and have a common goal and partnership to try to get this to completion.
 So partners were involved, that including banks, contractors that showed extraordinary understanding for this shared goal.
 They've talked about the assessor. That is only during the designation period and the assessor visit. And if it doesn't jive just quite right, you don't know exactly when the assessment was made, when it was actually produced on paper saying this is when it starts. So through...
 discrepancies in time, with that it makes it very, very hard. That's what happened with the assessment timing. So six or seven months of progress on a project could have been missed even though it had been there. So this designation period of what they're talking about
 After much research with the past council minutes and educational materials about tax abatement through the process of the Department of Local Government Finance in the United States government, there were some questions to Steve McKinney at DLGF.
 The designation period is not required in the statute, and the vast majority of Indiana cities and counties do not include an expiration date to that designation period.
 The second point, it can be easily extended and renewed to make tax abatement qualifiable. And third, St. Joseph Township starts counting the designation period at the first year the assessor monitors an increase, which better approximates the progress of construction. In the case of this place of LaSalle, the four-year designation period would start in January of 21, where the assessor first marked the building at 38 percent and then, as we know, expire four years later.
 So South Bend passed 14 resolutions. We've talked about this before, extending the designation period by one of average of 1.9 years, five of them to over five years, six were extended retroactively. 30 seconds, ma'am.
 Please remember that this opposition should not be towards David Matthews, but it's more for what the project is. It's not a personal thing. It's a bigger thing than that. South Bend needs to realize that 300 East LaSalle development is there. It is a big building and it looks pretty good. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street, South Bend.
 I sure appreciate the opportunity to come before you and thank you for your patience. I know it's been a long night for all of you and for everybody that's hung in there. I think that's pretty awesome. And it shows us as a city that we do care and we do want to be a part of what happens. One of the things I'll bring an interesting perspective. I've never met David. I never had that opportunity. And.
 But I happened to be here at the committee earlier today, and I think you guys heard two of the two words that you heard a couple of times was petty and personal. And one of the things I want to share is that I actually videotaped it today, and I have it on my blog.
 on my phone if anybody wants to ever have that or see it, but I videotaped the whole thing today. And I was really shocked when I witnessed the five to one vote because I just common sense didn't get a lot of the arguments. And what's funny when it's, they're just talking about, you know, 24 20, they talked about a lot of David's other things. It talked about other projects. It talked, it talked about, it's almost like he was being, um,
 i don't know being judged for for his actions and so many different things even though some personal things that that i was amazed through the whole thing that five to one vote when you have two council persons that are here fighting on behalf of david that it still ended up being a five to one vote i i just i just was shocked to witness and see that and then one of the things i got to see is when david came up and said hey
 This was your concerns from earlier today. And this is what I'm willing to do was amazing to me. I don't know that I've ever witnessed that something like that in my entire life. And for you guys, I'm just telling you, if you guys go and stay with your no votes, you're going to be in trouble.
 I will be not just shocked, I'll be mortified because there's no justification. Anything I witnessed today from all these hours, everybody's all vested for you guys to walk away and say no vote. It has to be a U.S. vote. I wasn't going to talk about this today. I came here to talk about other things, privilege of the floor. But I'm telling you, my vote is for yes for 24-20. Thank you.
 Hello, I'm Brendan Crumlish, President of Businesses United 4 Incorporated, 3215 Sugar Maple Court, South Bend. I'm here with the members of our corporation tonight to show our support for David Matthews and Bill 2420. Thank you. Thank you. Hi there. My name is Dave Matthews. I'm a lifelong resident of South Bend. I'm Dave Matthews' dad. Thank you.
 I think it's important to consider the unintended consequences of the vote we're about to manage here. Through the course of the delays in COVID, this building project got trapped in a construction loan, a short-term loan. Interest rates went way up. Just like if you had built or purchased a brand new house and had to wait a little while to get a mortgage, all of a sudden your payments would double.
 That essentially is what happened to this building in the last year or so. If you force this $700,000 a year in tax payments, you will bankrupt this building. It'll get sold probably for 30% to 50% less than it's actually worth or cost to build, which will, as an unintended consequence, will also...
 It will become the comparable for the rest of your property tax basis. You'll lose 30% of the city's tax base overnight when this building goes dark. And then there's the unintended consequence of when the people that put up the $40 million to orchestrate this project, they're not just going to walk away. They'll get some plaintiff's attorneys. Now, Dave's grandfather was a plaintiff's attorney. These guys are the gunslingers of the modern world.
 You know how much it costs to get the best, most expensive attorneys to take up your case? Nothing. If they lose $20 million on this project, the plaintiff's attorneys will take up the case for free and sue the city. Sue the city for a lack of integrity. Integrity, that quality of coherence between what the city says it will do and what ends up being the truth. In the legal system, half of the law or more is based on precedent.
 who, how were similar cases judged previously. If there is a variation here between what has happened consistently in the past and how this project is treated, the city is red meat to these gunslingers. And they won't have, I'll tell you how this works. They'll move to a different venue, some small county out in Indiana. It'll cost each of you $1,000
 An hour's drive to get there and back, they'll grill you for days at a time, taking depositions and comparing notes, trying to figure out how did this happen that the government turned out to be dishonest about what they were up to. And we can argue these lawsuits take five, 10 years. The city will never collect $700,000 a year in taxes from this building for the next 10 years anyway.
 because it'll be all tied up in lawsuits. And then these lawyers will go after punitive damages to punish the government of two or three times what the actual loss is in terms of computed dollars. These are unintended consequences that if you don't allow this extension, you're just setting yourself up to cost the city literally millions of dollars in legal judgments. I hope you're
 smart enough to do the right thing. Extend this deal that the city made that orchestrated this $40 million of outside money coming from across the nation or outside of the city that landed on our streets to enhance our community for the next 50 or 100 years. This is the only logical thing to do is treat this project like you've treated all the other projects that through no fault of their own endured
 things like COVID and other extensions. So remember, the mortgage payments on this construction loan, this building's not mature enough to get a long-term loan, this construction loan doubled. If your house payment doubled, you'd be in a jam. Push this tax assessment, you will bankrupt this building. You'll have a big gray box on your hands and a bunch of lawsuits. Thank you. Thank you. Sorry, hi, counsel.
 Jonathan Walter, I'm at Local Vision Fund 300 East LaSalle as well. This has been a really long night, and I have actually never been more inspired by democracy than tonight. I don't know if when everyone started on council or first imagined.
 taking a position of responsibility, a civic responsibility. They knew that, I'm sure everyone did, but that you'd be here till very late in the evening. So I just want to thank everyone because I think it just shows so much respect and consideration to the process, which we do trust, of democracy and of this city council. So I sincerely do thank each and every one of you, regardless of however your decision may be. I think it's deeply appreciated.
 I've known David since college. We went to Purdue together. He is a really good engineer. He ended up building buildings, engineering buildings, you could say, as a developer, engineering this orchestrating body that makes everything else work. I think we've heard a lot of really positive things tonight about him.
 other people's experiences with him as a person. I definitely will say that we're going to hear some other ones in a few minutes. And I think it's important that everyone positive also listens to those. I think David's important that he listens to them and thinks about what key message everyone has on every side. I know he will. I've known him for so long. And I truly do believe that he has a deeply, deeply committed heart to the city, to the people.
 One thing that certainly has happened is this project went way over budget. It went way over budget, but it could have been a giant Stonehenge, like a really big Stonehenge. I kind of said that in a joke, but actually the thing known as Stonehenge is very serious. And in conversations that I've had, I know he takes it very seriously. And I've seen him take so much energy and life force seriously.
 that he has poured and that my family has poured, that many of the people, in fact, 99% of the equity in this building is in this room. There are so many people in a small business. This is a small group of people that have poured into their passion to get this, to build this. You can certainly imagine that that passion could have easily given up. And I know that he deeply cares about...
 the built environment. His mission statement, if you go on his website, it's actually really beautiful. It's about to build a beautiful environment where everyone can call themselves at home and in community. This was a very urban area. It was very different before he came in, very, very different beforehand. And without a billion dollars, it takes time to develop it. I firmly believe that the Stonehenge project and these other ones, we see a really solid and strong and tremendous personal commitment
 That is exactly what I think many of the people in the opposition hopefully are pleased with. I think accountability is absolutely critical. I know David believes that as well. We all do in this room. We believe in responsibility. We believe in accountability. I think the memorandum of understanding is a really wonderful step forward. I also think it's a wonderful reminder of the step forward that in the midst of a pandemic and tremendous problems, we do have a completed building.
 We have a building, we have an apartment that has 144 units over the 125 in the original agreement. We have a grocery store, a pharmacy, a grocery store that's been operating since seven days a week, not just some days, but seven days a week and truly has been a pouring out again of his life. You know, the guy can only bleed so much. And, you know, I don't know, some people are more emotional than others. David is not.
 Uh, that has really ruined, uh, I think a lot of first impressions. I think it has really saved this project, this project. If he was more human, emotional, he may have given up, but I, I, I truly, but sorry, I don't mean this to be a roast, but, but he, he, he sometimes can be a little crass or like a little edge. The crass isn't the right word, but like there's an edge of genuineness and he just doesn't realize maybe that for instance, perhaps, uh, uh, uh,
 Sorry, I want to say congressman Rachel. I'm not used to this. Rachel Thomas Morgan, perhaps in the comment that he said around the not tremendously bothering him. A few days before that, he told me that he loves looking at the flowers. My mom has flowers. They're wildflowers. Yes, sir. I think that the meaning behind that is that, you know,
 That was not to me the best word, but he truly does care. And the best way to see that is by his actions and by pouring out truly his life in the midst of raising a family, two babies. He has a third baby of 144 units. That's 12 city blocks worth of housing that is done, that has people living in it. A grocery store that meets the commitment as needed. The state, the RDA, has agreed that it meets the commitment they've sent in their approval. They're good. Thank you. Ben Dahl, 2145 Hollywood Place.
 I'll try to be brief. Again, thank you guys for your time. Thank you for everyone that has shown for support and opposition. I think it is very important that we get all sides and see everything. I mean, so I wasn't here earlier. I was happy to hear the memorandum that they presented.
 put together and i will say with 100 certainty that i will help back that memorandum um as well as our team uh we've got great people working for us and we're we're behind david and this project 100 percent um so you know it's it's not just him um and i'm glad you guys brought up the the corporate entity behind it david matthews is the name david matthews is the person this project
 isn't about David Matthews and him as a person. He's heard, you know, everyone's talking about wonderful things about him and everything. Yes, they're all true. Spend, you know, five, 10 minutes and get to know him. And, you know, everyone will see that as well. But the one question that still looms in my mind that I can, you know, after hearing everything and everything going around and around is what's the benefit of rejecting this?
 The only upside I see is by approving it. Now, approve it and hold his feet to the fire. You know, let's get this stuff taken care of. Let's get all, you know, the other things that aren't associated with this project but are attached to his name. Let's clean those up. Give us a timeline. Give us a timeframe. And let's move forward. Just all this negativity and all this divisiveness.
 It just rips dominoes and makes everything that much harder to actually accomplish things when we face opposition every step of the way. So please, please, please reconsider and pass this bill. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Colorado, do you see anyone online who should speak in favor of this?
 Dr. Rado, do you see anyone online wishing to speak in favor of? There is no one online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Hi, I'm Velvet Canada. I have offices at 401 East Colfax in South Bend, Indiana, 46617. Well, thank you for all the support you've come here tonight and the stories that you have given to us. This has been nine years of my life in this one building.
 I have seen several iterations of it. I have gotten to deal with almost about every problem that came up with it. And I'll tell you, we took every problem and we did our best that we could. Was it 100% perfect? No, but none of us are perfect. This building was built by humans. I don't know about y'all, but I really like Seinfeld. And he came here and it was probably one of the best
 times of my life of getting to laugh, especially after doing this building with my husband. And so he talks about communication and one of his skits he does, it's about the low talkers. And then the other one is about the close talkers. And in
 He's telling us like communication is key and that you have some people that might talk really slow and you can't understand what they're saying. And that causes a problem because you lose the communication with them. And then he talks about the close talkers. And they're the people that are in your face and they want everything to be heard. And you're in your way and you're just trying to get back and you can't listen to them because they're in your face.
 I want you all to know that we did reach out to the mayor and to the city. I have a list of emails. In June 2020, I had to reach out and ask that the panels on the building, why they hadn't been paid for our contractor. And they had sent the bill in April, and it was paid in June and approved by the Redevelopment Commission in June.
 I then reached out in August of 2020, asking to meet with the mayor. And I did this after David had tried many, many times.
 Then Wilhelm, our contractor, tried many, many times. And I said, you know what? I will try. I will persevere. I am a Libra. I like balance. I want there to be conversation. I believe that we can all talk and get something done. But again, communication is key. Some of you were copied on the email that I sent to the mayor. But I'll tell you, in August of 2020, I asked for a meeting.
 It took 74 days to have a meeting. And do you know, I asked for one thing. I asked for the mayor to please show up. You were the leader. And please keep in mind, in 2020, there was nobody in the head of DCI. Nobody was there because James was now our mayor. Voted for him to be in that position. I wanted him to be in that position.
 And I worked with him alongside trying to get this building to where it is today. Do you know that I was told at the beginning of that meeting that the mayor would not be in that meeting and that he was not a decision maker? And I was like, wait, he is our leader. He should be the decision maker. He needs to be here.
 I still yet have been in a room in a meeting with Mr. Mueller. And that is infuriating because I sat here and I listened to people upset that David didn't show up to a meeting. And here I am trying to project manage one of the largest buildings, $1 million. You've heard that so many times tonight. I can't get the leader to give me some time.
 30 seconds. All of you I asked for a meeting with, and in two weeks, do you realize almost eight of you between David and I showed up? 74 days. I just ask that you understand where we are coming from communication, that it has not been there. And please give us grace on this project. Thank you. At this time, I would ask if there's anyone in the audience. Thank you. Thank you.
 We appreciate your time. At this time, I would ask, is there anyone in the audience wishing to speak in opposition of this resolution? If you are wishing to speak in opposition, please come up to the mic and give your name and your residential address. And the same said, five minutes for presentation. Madam President.
 My name is Richard Nussbaum. I'm an attorney that's practiced in this community since 1977. I've been a resident since 1979. My residence is at 225 South Sunnyside Avenue in South Bend. I'm wondering if I could get a little leeway on the five-minute rule because there's been... Madam President? I didn't know if you were... What were you asking? Well, I'm here for a number of people to speak, and I'm not sure I can all get it in in five minutes.
 At this time, we have, excuse me, ma'am, I think I could handle addressing him. Thank you so much. Mr. Nussbaum, it's five minutes for the opposition, speaking in opposition. Okay. President McBride, I would acknowledge that Mr. Nussbaum has filed his formal remonstrance.
 according to 211 VD 3 states that he is as that as representative of large group of neighbors he is entitled to be to speak untimed thank you I would like the parliamentarian and I'll speak to that point he did the email both you and I did see the email but I would turn to the parliamentarian regarding the legislative ruling thank you mr. news bomb
 I'm sorry, ma'am. Is my limit to five minutes? Is that what you're saying? Yes, we would have you stop at five minutes. And if you can give a summarization of that, that would be great. I'll do my best. Thank you. There's been a lot said here. First of all, I'd like to comment on the fact that this MOU was submitted at the beginning of the meeting. I don't know who's seen it other than the council. It seems to me that it needs to be looked at.
 From what I could hear, because I never saw a copy, there are no commitments in here that aren't already commitments. In other words, there's taxes that need to be paid because they're due and paid. There's cleanups that need to be done because they haven't been done. There is, it was mentioned that Mr. Matthews would personally...
 um, uh, eliminate the tax abatement if he didn't follow those, all that, all those things. Well, that's already true by law. The tax abatement can be withdrawn if the commitments made by the developer aren't met. Now, having said that, um, it's great to see that there's been some movement coming from the developer because as we mentioned at the committee meetings, there was, um,
 countless times that the Redevelopment Commission invited Mr. Matthews to come and to explain what was going on, and he simply refused to come. There were neighbors that asked him to explain what he was doing with the children's hospital. We asked him. He refused to come. I've heard a lot about communication and trying to get along. You're not going to have communication if you don't have two parties in the room to talk.
 Now, tonight, we got some communication. No question about that. Wish it would have happened a lot sooner so that we could have much more reasoned discussion about some of these things. With regard to COVID, no one is minimizing COVID. There are lots of problems. The city has granted many extensions with regard to this project. I just wish that Mr. Matthews had been equally as...
 um giving an understanding of covid for some of his tenants that he sued because they didn't pay his rent or there was a person that wrote a note this morning who said that they went to mr mr matthews because there was construction going on and they liked some relief from their lease completely refused it because it was a commitment it works both ways
 So I'm here to speak in opposition to this resolution because when we came into the room tonight, there had been nothing offered. Now we hear that there's something that's being offered. I think it would be unreasonable for the sponsors of this bill and the petitioners to demand that the council take action tonight without at least looking at this, having council review it.
 We've already heard from a couple of people how we're all going to get sued. I was a city attorney for 10 years. I can, I think, say with some degree of certainty, there's not going to be any punitive damages. The city's not entitled, the city's not subject to punitive damages. This is a legislative body that's entitled to a lot of discretion. And as long as the city is doing things in good faith, not arbitrary and capriciously, they're going to succeed in court.
 So maybe the solution tonight is to table this. Let's look at the memorandum of understanding. Let's see where it takes us and come back at some other time to see if we can get something resolved. Thank you. Sandra Kennedy, Corporation Council, City of South Bend. Mr. Nussbaum took some of the words right out of my mouth. I have been communicating with Mayor Mueller this evening, and he's...
 Asked me to tell you that we are offended at the last minute attempt to try to barter an agreement with you. I will just remind you, he never signed the memorandum of agreement that we gave to him that, by the way, says that you can totally take away the tax abatement, which he is now graciously allowing you to do.
 If he does these other things, there's in that MOU, there's doesn't sound like there's anything written in there that is a consequence if he doesn't do these things. I mean, there's just it's just one more thing. It's like the Martins letter. It's not signed and it's not binding. So I don't know what you want from that. And then additionally, you had his father up here trying to bully you into thinking that we're going to lose a lawsuit. Right.
 Well, quite frankly, as I quoted to you before, and I think you have had time to look it up, 2-76.3 is your ordinance that this council passed that has the rules for a tax abatement. Part of the rules are you have to pay your taxes in St. Joseph County. How much hasn't been paid? It's like $700,000 and unpaid taxes so far on six properties.
 It also includes you have to obey state and local laws, local laws like zoning ordinances and code ordinances, like all of your ordinances that you all passed. He has to abide by. He doesn't. Somebody said something about and I hear them talking back there. So, like, I hear the peanuts.
 Somebody said something about contrary in leadership. You are getting that right now. He does not want to follow the ordinances, but he wants something from you. He wants you to extend the designation period. How can you do that when he's not abiding by the rest of your ordinances? Not with this company, not with any of the 50 other companies he has. He is not doing it. You cannot do it.
 Please, please do not pass this resolution. The mayor has promised you he will veto it. He will veto it. You will have to override it. It's a promise, lady. It's a promise. So this is why they only drag me out when no one else can come. I'm not suitable for company. But I'll just tell you this much. This is a bad thing. You do not want to approve this resolution. Okay.
 You do not want this. There's all sorts of smoke and mirrors here. You've got old Commerce Center. You've got new Commerce Center. You can only have a tax abatement on a new Commerce Center. The resolution is on both Commerce Centers. You cannot pass the resolution for that reason. You cannot pass it because it your ordinance says you cannot pass it because he hasn't paid taxes, because he hasn't been abiding by the laws of this city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, members of the council. Members of the council, my name is Frank Perry. I both