or didn't get seen so my daughter just got here you
 um you
 Thank you. I would like to call Monday, July 10th.
 Council meeting to order. Clark Jones, I believe you would like to make some statements and comments regarding the link to the meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. It's still on. Good evening, members of the public.
 For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves. Could you please check your mics and make sure that they're not on?
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, insert your name and address in the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input.
 For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time, and the council president will call on you, and you will be given three minutes to speak during the privilege of the floor. Again, insert your name and your address, and please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we will have the invocation by Pastor Lee. Let us bow our heads. Dear gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity today.
 to work on the business of the city of South Bend. We pray, God, that you would guide our thoughts, guide our decisions, and bless our city. Lord, we remember those who have lost their lives this week, those that were shot this past week, and we just ask that you will continue to make South Bend into a great city, that everyone can live and thrive and be successful.
 We ask that the decisions that we make today will help to be something that's going to uplift our community and help us together as a body to be able to push our city forward in prosperity. All these things we ask in your son's name. Amen. Please rise for the pleasantly. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll, please?
 council member davis council member lee president council member warner council member wax president council member white president council member thomas morgan president council member hammond vice president naskowski president president mcbride present nine present thank you reports from subcommittee on minutes the report of the subcommittee on minutes to the common council
 of the city of south bend the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of april 10th 2023 meeting and found them to be correct therefore they are being recommended for council approval subcommittee any comments or report no nothing else all right uh i would like to entertain a motion for approval of the minutes so moved second has been moving second all in favor any opposition
 Motions carried. At this time, there are no, if you are here for bills 2423 regarding West Western Avenue, and if you're here for bill 2723 regarding property located on Lincoln Way West, both of those bills have been tabled until July 24th. Thank you. With that being said, we would move on to resolutions.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2341 a reading?
 2341, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1202 South Lafayette Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana, 46624, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for KCG Companies, LLC. Thank you.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. This came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Mr. Glavich. Hi. Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment. Office is on the 14th floor of this building. Okay.
 Bill number 23-41 is a confirming resolution for one of the two low-income tax credit projects that the City is supporting this application round. This is for property that is at the corner of Lafayette and Stoll on the south side of South Bend.
 The proposal by a company named KCG Companies based in Indianapolis is to build a 50-unit low-income facility for 55 and older residents. The rents will be a mix of 60%, 40%, and 30% AMI. The total investment for this project is $12.5 million. Okay.
 petitioner would qualify for a 10-year multifamily development real property tax abatement, and that would be the abatement that you would confirm today. The tax numbers are indicated on the screen here. It's currently a vacant lot owned by the city with these types of low-income tax credit projects.
 The abatement, the purchase of land from the city would proceed only if the applicant were to win the tax credits from the state. So you've done these in the past for real America, which we recently reconfirmed and there will be another light tech project for your consideration here shortly. There is a representative of KCG companies on.
 attending virtually. He's happy to answer any questions you may have, and I am as well. Thank you. Counsel, is there any questions for the petitioner? If not, I'll turn to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution number 2341? There is no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of Resolution 2341. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2341?
 There's no one virtually wishing to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. Do you have any comments, Mr. Davis? Sure. This is just an overall thought or perspective. I have interfaced with some folks here on this community and they asked me about the level and the number of tax abatements that this council gives out. And I understand it's a tool for development purposes.
 But there are also, and I've said this before in the past, there are also pros and cons to it as well. I think that is great that we are getting attention from developers and they want to invest in it to the city. But there has to be a serious conversation more than they're paying taxes where taxes weren't being paid to be in our conversation. There's a lot to be said about tax abatements and what they do and what they don't do, the finality of them.
 It's just a lot. And so because there's so much I do have to question it. I'm not against this particular development. But what I am going to say to you, sir, you're bringing it to us. There has to be a larger discussion about tax abatements. It has to be because from my experience and from me, you know, just being in this elective seat for the amount of years that I've been in,
 I know that tax abatements, when they do go through, somebody's not getting the share that they're used to getting or not the level that they're used to getting. And because of that, somebody is not growing because somebody is coming in under the radar versus where they would naturally come in at. Just a thought. I'm just talking about the economic health of the city. But I am going to support it because we do have tax abatements. We offer tax abatements. They went through the process of gaining tax abatements, so I get it.
 But there has to be a discussion on our standard on which we are giving these tax abatements out. Thank you. Anyone else? Councilor Hammond. Thank you. If I could just kind of fishtail off that a little bit. I have received several phone calls regarding the same issue, just the number of abatements that we have embarked upon and this council has passed over the last few months. And I think a lot of it has to do with...
 a lack of effort to educate because some of the things that I'm actually hearing is that by issuing these tax abatements, we don't have money for things like public safety. And I think it is our job and it's the job of the city and the administration to do a much better job to help the community to understand how all of this ties into funding for things such as
 And I would ask that you maybe pass that on to Caleb and see what we may be able to do to advance that type of education, because there's a great deal of concern out there in the community. Yeah, I think. Thank you. I think that's a valuable comment. Thank you. Thank you, Councilor Wax. Just to follow up on that, and I don't think this is the time and place for this conversation, but.
 giving an abatement does not reduce the tax revenues to the city. It actually invites a development which increases the tax revenue to the city. As you see on the board, even if the abatement is passed, the tax revenue of the city will go up versus if we don't have this abatement, in which case we wouldn't have this project. So without this abatement, we would have less revenue than if we have the abatement. Thank you, Councillor Lee. Thank you.
 I have to also say and state too that if we look at the numbers of what the current estimated annual taxes for this abandoned property is getting, that's $370. With this abatement, which is again, this is low-income senior housing, which we need in our city.
 And if we're going to get the things that we need in order for people to have the housing that they need, it has to be a relationship that invites developers to come in and want to do business with our city. $370 a year. And when we look at what will be after 10 years, $268,000, that's an investment and that's
 That's how we get to the place where we're already in a housing crunch now. And this is how we help to bring the affordable housing to our community. So I just wanted to point that out again. It's not that we're just handing out free money because we wouldn't be getting this money if a developer didn't come in. Thank you. Counselor Tomas Morgan. Yes, I just want to say I appreciate your comments. I appreciate.
 in past years have provided education sessions for within community investment committee educating, helping to educate the public on what tax abatements are real basic one on one sessions and we have a PowerPoint we have a recording so just want to remind.
 Council members down there that these are resources that can be shared. So I'm happy to resend it to you. And should you get such questions, feel free to share it. And also an invitation. We'll be having a community investment committee meeting tomorrow where Department of Community Investment is meeting.
 presenting a their 2022 annual report now that's a big picture overview but then in council meetings to come the department will also be coming to present on their 2022 tax abatement report and answering any questions my name is Henry I'm not down here I'm your colleague my name is Henry and
 if the question sets off so many alarms only thing I'm asking for is the proof to be shown not your educational ceremonies or your your educational committee hearings the question is on the floor and then if the if Council members have a problem with it we're asking the department to prove how great they are versus what the cons could be
 And I don't think that's a bad question. I think that that's a great question. Investment committee. I am on your committee. I think I'm the vice chair of your committee. Come to committee meetings and that might be helpful. Thank you. Rachel, you're talking to somebody that has down there 20 years of experience. I still have questions. We will with that. Thank you, counsel.
 counselor Warner yeah I think there's one important piece that uh is kind of overlooked with this project right this is a light tech it's a straight state grant that we're the developers applying for um in July we find out in November we got three of those last year we've got two great light tech applications going in this year and the city is required as part of the grant to provide ten percent uh this is a way for us to provide
 part of that 10% contribution without any direct funding in the shape of a reduced tax bill in the future. So I'm excited about this project. I'm excited about both our LIHTC projects. Everything, every single
 throughout this we just finished the campaign and housing was talked about non-stop uh and here we're getting 50 low income senior housing units uh I'm excited about it the other project is uh um taking up 37 empty Lots and we're building infill housing on 37 Lots and so I think it's a tool that in this instance makes a whole lot of sense and allows us to contribute to that 10 City
 investment in the project. Thank you. With that being said, Council, what's your pleasure? I make a motion to adopt Resolution 2341. I move a motion and second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Watts? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2341 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, would you please give Resolution 2340 to a reading?
 Excuse me. 2342, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1144 Corby Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana, 46617, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for Five Corners LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride.
 Bill number 23-42 came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Glavich. Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor of this building. This bill is a declaratory resolution for a 10-year mixed-use program.
 development tax abatement for a project known as Five Corners LLC. Excuse me, Five Corners. The land is currently owned by Five Corners LLC, who is partnering with a holiday properties entity to build the development that you see on the lower left of the screen here. The building
 excuse me, the building would be located just off of State Route 23, Eddie Street, north of what was Pearlie School and is now Rise Up Academy. It's the empty space, as you see, between Hampo and Corby. Oops, hold on, I'm trying to change my screen.
 So the development will be two two buildings, one project encompassing about 173,000 square feet,
 There will be 108 residential apartments, 5,000 square feet of retail, and four for sale condos. Just to point out that the condos are not part of the abatement. The investment for this development as a whole is over $31 million. By the end of 2025, the petitioner anticipates nine new full-time employees.
 As I mentioned, it's a mixed use development in a 10 year abatement.
 The lots, if you know where I'm talking about, there's just a few structures there, you know, just using our models so that we're comparing apples to apples. The current tax bill as estimated would be just under $13,000 as it currently stands. The tax numbers, I don't need to go through them line by line, but over the 10-year abatement, we're looking at about $1.5 million in taxes abated. Meanwhile, the project will actually...
 be paying 3.3 million dollars during that time representatives from uh holiday properties entity and uh from five corners llc are here to talk about the project i know paul fair um would like to give you a quick overview so i'm going to switch over to um what paul had provided because i forgot to do it four o'clock meeting and i felt bad okay that's not good
 it's a good thing i'm scheduled to get a new computer there we go oh there we go okay otherwise i have handouts i always come prepared just in case technology doesn't cooperate uh good evening and thank you very much for the opportunity to be with you tonight my name is paul fair with holiday properties our office is located at 3454 douglas road in south bend indiana
 With me tonight is Anne Hayes and Katrina Markhart from Five Corners LLC, as Eric mentioned, our land partners on the project, and also my colleague James Randolph, who has been with me every step of the way on Five Corners.
 I'll try and keep my presentation brief again. I know I keep belaboring the point. I know we've been in front of you. I think this is our fourth time through the process, and so you have heard this ad nauseum, but
 To, again, just give an overview, the Five Corners Mixed Use Project is located at the southeast corner of Corby and State Road 23. It's a development of condos, commercial space, and apartment rental units.
 The real motivation from the beginning, to focus on the apartments for a second, is to create an environment here that is part of the community and something that has activity all year round. All of us are familiar with the area and drive through it regularly, and the university has a great impact, there's no doubt. Yeah.
 But we know that some of the real estate there in owner occupied has gone to residences that are only used for a few times a year. And that's not what we wanted here. And really the best way to do that is to provide rental options so that we can have people who can be there all year round and really contribute to the community.
 Um, same thing with the commercial space and I'll jump to the plan here in a second to kind of give you an overview of what goes where, but it, what we want to provide there is a, most likely a restaurant at retail use, but something that has life on that corner on the first level. Um, so we're, we're excited to, to come forth. Um, and just again, to kind of quickly give you the, the summary on the project, um,
 We have about 5,000 square feet of commercial space that'll be in a building on the corner on the first floor. Four condo units, those are the only owner-occupied units in the project. As Eric mentioned, again, those are not part of the abatement, so those will be subdivided out and not included for abatement going forward. And then the larger building to the south, when we get to the site plan, I'll show you, has 108 apartment units, studios, ones, and two bedrooms. Yes.
 The total project investment we have estimated at $31.5 million. We have a strong budget that we're confident in. We're working to try and get that down a little bit if we can, but that's the target that we have. The tax abatement really will help us to achieve the return levels in order to raise the necessary debt and equity to make this project a reality. Right now we have a wonderful concept.
 and a great design, but what we really need is to take that next step. And so the abatement allows us to go from kind of the 5.75 return to a 6.75 return, which will be more attractive to get people who want to invest in the project.
 We've been kind of overly impacted by starting this project two years ago by the big run up in interest rates, which has just increased the cost significantly. And so this abatement helps to blunt that effect.
 And with the abatement, as was previously mentioned in the conversation, as Eric mentioned, the impact on taxes is still going to be a very positive one. Really, if you look at the charts in the second year, we go the $13,000 is the estimated, but I believe this year, $22,000, pay $23,000 for this lot or this area is $9,800 or just over $9,800. And so in the second year, we're a 10x.
 once we finish construction, and it just goes up exponentially from there. So it's a significant positive impact from a tax standpoint. With the abatement, we anticipate getting the rest of the project ducks in a row and start for groundbreaking in the fall. So with that, I just want to show you a few, if I can get it to cooperate. Okay.
 A few pictures, maybe. While you're working on that, I will ask counsel, do you have any questions for the petitioner at this time? Any questions? Counselor Hammond. Thank you. I want to thank you for the amount of time that you have spent educating the council and the members and meeting with us.
 In our meeting that we had, you and I, you had mentioned something about a number, I don't remember the number you quoted, of income qualifying. Could you, that's not, I didn't see that, and if it's in there, I apologize, but could you speak more about that for me? Sure.
 Yes, so we we are committing to six income qualified and I actually misspoke and a message I had for Councilman Davis. It's six affordable units that are at 80% of the city AMI that would be included in the project during the evap period.
 And that is identified in here. I'm just not seeing it. I don't know if that is identified in the application itself, but it's something that we've spoken with DCI about and all of you about. So it is something we're committed to. OK, thank you. Anyone else? Well, here in the interim. Oh, there we go. Great. OK. OK. All right. Great. Thank you. OK. Apologize for that delay. So this again, I won't.
 time or belabor the point. You all have seen this numerous times, so they this is the site plan for the project. You see again the corner building that will have the commercial on the first floor, and then the condos on the second and third stories.
 then the apartment building to the south. And there are a couple of challenges at this site. The major one is the parking lot between the two buildings is over a large utility easement. Both the city has major infrastructure underground, and there are also AEP transmission lines. So that's really the necessity for two structures here.
 It is owned by a single entity. It is platted into a single lot, will be built at the same time. So we're treating it as a single project, but there are two buildings that are part of it. No.
 there we go uh this gives a elevation view of the corner building um and then the elevation of the apartment building um and really that's all i wanted to show today so i'm happy to answer any more questions that you might have thank you council is there any additional questions okay at this time i'll turn it to the public burke jones is there anyone wishing to speak we have um are you wishing to speak in favor of the project
 You can come on up to the podium and please state your name and address for the record. Jenny Piontek, 2201 Riverside Drive. I was just wondering what the rent will be on those properties. Thank you. So the rent range is $920 to the highest unit. The two bedrooms are $2,600. And you have six that are based on income. Correct. Yes.
 Thank you. Anyone else from the public? There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak on this bill. Thank you. I'll turn to make sure to see if there's anyone that's wishing to speak in opposition of this bill. There's no one from the virtual public wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I will turn back to counsel for any additional comments. Counselor Warner.
 i want to again commend you and not only did uh you spent a lot of time with council but the neighborhood associations and the neighbors and uh through this process um and i the six affordable units i know that's not required uh through the mixed use abatement i appreciate you uh uh
 considering that uh that request and making those six units affordable um we're excited to get this uh started um and then also one of the concerns i hear a lot uh probably the last few months in this area is uh um short-term rentals airbnbs and things like that being used and uh i know we talked a little bit about this but there's a apartment buildings and even uh um
 the number of those is coming very concerning up in that area. Yeah, and I've spoken with our property management about that, that we do not plan to allow residents to do that at this point. You know, since we're limited to studios, to two-bedroom units, you can't have large group gatherings, so it's going to be
 It wouldn't be really conducive to having kind of a party atmosphere anywhere or anyway, but we also have 107 other units that you'd have to take into account. So we don't plan to allow residents to do that. What we're seeing is even it's not the tenants that are putting them on Airbnb. It's the property owners, the apartment complexes. So that's.
 10 units that are Airbnb and there's 10 less rentals then and that and that that's there's a few units downtown and there's more and more on the northeast side and even on the east side of the river there's some of those so I think that's a concern that um
 that as we move forward and we need to keep in mind. Okay. Yeah, I had not thought about that from the owner standpoint. We definitely won't do that from an owner standpoint. We thought maybe for graduate students that wanted to make a few extra bucks, maybe that'd be a nice feature, but that's something we can commit to and not allowing Airbnb or short-term rentals. Thank you. Any other comments? Yes.
 also tomas more yes thank you president mcbride um i just want to express my gratitude i know this has been this is a challenging lot with the utility polls um
 towards the north end there. So it required creativity and thinking through the building and thus the two buildings for this mixed-use tax abatement.
 It's exciting to see structures go up on this vacant land, this plot of land that has been vacant for the past 15 years. Thank you for your investment. Thank you. Thank you, Councilor Davis. Yeah, my question was for Councilmember Warner. I agree with what he was saying, but how do you stop that?
 I mean, we have a free market, right, in this society. Is capitalism at its finest in America? How do we stop that? I get what you're saying. I agree with what you're saying. But how do we stop that? Oh, we can have that discussion later. I didn't hear what you said. I said we can have that discussion later. Thank you. Any other comments?
 I just want to say thank you for the time that you've taken to explain everything. And as we are being educated on how things have to work in order for the financing to happen, it does help with having a clear picture of what has to take place. So thank you for the time that you have dedicated to speaking with council members and showing us exactly and breaking it down so we can understand the project.
 Thank you. With that being said, Council, what's your pleasure? Second. We're moving second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2342 has been adopted.
 Clerk Jones, please give 2343 a reading.
 2343, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1405 Portage Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year real property tax abatement for peak investment and asset management LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Councilor Tomas Morgan?
 oh yes sorry president mcbride this bill came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation thank you mr globbins eric lovitz director of growth and opportunity offices on the 14th floor of this building um bill 2343 is a confirming resolution for an abatement for property at the corner of portage and elwood i'm sure everyone is very familiar with this property um
 Drew raises just to the southwest of there. It's been a vacant, abandoned gas station for years. The property owner is Peak Investment and Asset Management. And Praveen Gulati, who is the owner, is available online. But he will be tearing down the existing building and building two brand new retail centers, one with three storefronts.
 door excuse me storefront openings right on Portage Avenue with a parking lot between them you can see on your screen kind of the aerial footprint of what the development will look like um
 Mr. Gulati is investing almost one and a half million dollars in this property. He qualifies for a five-year retail development property tax abatement. And as I mentioned, Mr. Gulati is more than happy to answer any questions that you might have. I am as well. Thank you. Do you have any additional information to add? And if so, you can unmute yourself. You have to unmute yourself. You're still muted. Okay.
 Can you hear me? Yes, if you can state your name and address, please. Yeah, my name is Praveen Gulati, and I am the part owner of Peak Investment and Asset Management LLC. We are located in Indiana. This one is not a new project to us. We acquired this property from Speedway Corporation in a bundle deal of six properties in different cities.
 Initially, we wanted to develop this. I mean, we just wanted to use this property as it is. But due to the special exception and the deed restrictions on that property, there was no feasibility to move forward. Then we examined the area of the possibilities at hand.
 And then we decided to acquire the property behind our, you know, small at the Portage Avenue. And we saw that in that area, there is a, you know, a small gas station and a convenience store and a liquor shop. And there is a vibrant community there. There is a lot of...
 You know, housing and a lot of people of different walk of life live in that area. So we decided to develop a small commercial center with, you know, six units. Total square footage will be 10,300 square feet.
 Eric Galvich and you know he already explained you know the what the project is going to be but if you have any question I will be more than happy to answer all your questions thank you counsel do you have any questions yes today's I this is a question for gentlemen before us I um what is a um
 an economic revitalization revitalization area area and who defines it um you have to apologize if i don't know the intricacies but as it relates at least to the tax abatement counts through the declaratory resolution council is declaring property whether it's
 real property or personal property, real property to be an economic revitalization area, which would then make it eligible for a tax abatement. Exactly. And that's what, that's my basic understanding of it is. And the reason why I'm asking that question has everything to do with, I've been talking about with these tax abatements. Again, I'm not saying I'm against them, but I'm not saying I'm against them.
 What is occurring is that certain areas are being, are either attracting tax abatements because of the activity that's going on in that particular area or the city, I don't know who is because I wasn't at a meeting that said that this area needs to be an ERA, but somehow some way it is. So somebody has to make a decision to say that this area as an economic revitalization area,
 WHY NOT THE ENTIRE CITY BE THE SAME THING, RIGHT? AND SO I'M TRYING TO GET SOME CLARIFICATION ON HOW THESE THINGS ARE HAPPENING BECAUSE WHAT'S GOING TO OCCUR IS THAT YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THE HALF NOTS AND YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THE HALVES BASED UPON THE WAY THAT THE MONEY IS FLOWING AND THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY AS IT RELATES TO ECONOMICS IN THE CITY. THAT'S WHY I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE TAX ABATEMENT. I'M GOING TO GET MY POINT ACROSS AT SOME POINT. THERE HAS TO BE A BETTER DISCUSSION ABOUT HOW THESE THINGS ARE DEFINED. YOU SAID THE COUNCIL.
 we're getting ready to vote this through or not i'm sure we're going to vote it through are we voting this through with the understanding that we're that that we are saying that this area needs to be revitalized right while so many others are and that the designation deserves to be here
 Look at the black. That's silly. Thank you Council. What's your pleasure? Move for adoption. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones to roll, please.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2343 has been adopted. Clark Jones, will you please give 2343-44 a reading.
 2344, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as multiple properties and economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for Advantix Development Corporation. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, President Bride, this came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Glovich. Eric Glovich, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you, for your consideration, is the confirming resolution for a scattered site LIHTC project that the city is supporting. Okay.
 Again, this is part of the city's support for two light tech projects. The KCG property is the earlier one. In this case,
 Advantex Development Corporation, which is the 501 arm of the Evansville Housing Authority and does these types of projects around the state, is proposing to build 50 residential units across 37 vacant city-owned properties, many single-family houses, duplexes, and more. Really exciting project.
 Really satisfying the need for infill housing throughout the West and Northwest parts of the city. As I mentioned, this is part of a larger support package that the city is putting together as this company and KCG separately seek for.
 Low income tax credits from the state. This proposal, which I don't know if was necessarily mentioned earlier, would be a lease to lease to own model, which is what Vantix is putting forth. They qualify for a 10 year. This would be a multifamily development, real property tax abatement investment for this.
 project is north of $12 million and we're excited that Advantix will just use the city-owned city-approved city pre-approved plans for their houses. The tax abatement information is on the screen. Council approved the declaratory resolution two weeks ago so happy to answer any further questions that you might have. Thank you. Thank you. Council you have any questions?
 I just have one question in the packet on the very back. It's got the southwest sample between Lafayette and Franklin Street, 3.2 acres. Is that supposed to be on here? Well, that was put units on. But as we continue to negotiate with Advantex, that property was –
 scrapped and they're more Lincoln West, Marion Street. That area is where they will be investing their money. Do you wish to speak in favor of Resolution 2344? No one from the virtual public is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Same said, do you see anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone wishing to speak in opposition. Second. It's been moved.
 an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax payment for Crossroads Solar Enterprises, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. This came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Mr. Glovage.
 Eric Lovitz, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you, Bill 2345 is a declaratory resolution for a five-year personal property tax abatement for Crossroads Solar Enterprises.
 You may be familiar with Crossroads. They're a mission focused organization who hires, whose employees are felons, people who are returning to society and
 and really need an opportunity, and Crossroads provides that to them. They started in 2019 and really have grown considerably. They used to be located on Sample Street. They outgrew that facility and have recently moved up to North Bendix Drive near the airport. As part of this massive expansion,
 expansion that they have going on was the need to increase productivity. So they are in the process of purchasing a brand new manufacturing equipment that will allow them to have a second line, much higher productivity. So basically they're going to be quadrupling their output, and this will allow them to hire 15 brand new employees. The,
 Equipment costs roughly a million dollars. Questions have come up both at the committee meeting and in previous times about some of the estimates that are provided in terms of the personal property tax abatements. So I just ran some numbers between meetings. And Pat Regan, the founder and owner of CXP.
 of crossroads is here and he'd like to say a few words and talk about crossroads in this, but I just wanted to point out that if cross crossroads were to use 15 years straight line deduction, the taxes paid over 15 years would be about $122,000. And the taxes abated would be about $118,000. So you know, as
 you know, the lifetime and depending on how the company decides to expense the equipment depends on the size of their abatement. So I just wanted to point that out that, you know, our estimates that we show, you know,
 you know in terms of the least the personal property you know their estimates and um so there's different ways of you know calculating the tax estimates and um i'd like to have mr regan come up and introduce himself and he'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have thank you
 thank you i am pat regan i'm the owner of crossroads solar co-owner uh 1901 north bendix drive south bend i didn't put together a presentation but those are pictures of uh the facility that we have and um we have
 been successful in a sense that we've managed to bring together a company that has outgrown so far everything that we've done. Still a long way to go to get there. We have, we just hired another person today I met, but we have 15 employees now. We're going to at least double it by fourth quarter. The new equipment begins arriving in about a week, but
 And the city's been great to us, frankly. We've had opportunities to move it with an offer of a building and an offer of a free assembly line if we just moved to the little old Elkhart.
 And we like it here. I actually sat down with all the employees at the time and said, okay, we can do this in Elkhart for a lot less than we can do it here. And they voted unanimously to stay here, which was thrilling. So we hire people from the reentry center. We hire people from parole officers that hear about us. Dukeham Center. And the Dukeham Center, yes.
 And you know, it's a cool little experiment that does some really good things. We got some great people that work for us and we'd like to keep it going. Thank you. Council, do you have any questions? Any comments? Councillor Tomas Morgan? I have a question and a comment later. Mr. Reagan, I'm going to ask this question just so you could share a little bit more about Crossroads Solar, but your employees are very happy.
 staying in your business. I know that because we heard from one this afternoon, but I have spoken to a number as well during my tours of both sample streets and your new plant at Bendix. And so it was wondering if you could just share with the council why that is. So salary benefits, if you could be specific about what you offer. Yeah. So I got to, you did this to put me on the spot because I get all emotional about it, but yeah,
 You know, I think we take men and women who made colossally dumb mistakes and we treat them with dignity and respect. And they come to work for us without questions about what they did or why they did it. And they just all get treated like human beings. So I have two young, happen to be men, but who got incarcerated as high school students.
 One was the president of his senior class and the captain of the basketball team. And he got involved in a murder. And, you know, he grew up in the prison system. And I have another young man who just got out of the reentry center after serving 20-some years in prison. He's a middle-aged man. And his father came in and sat in my car. I don't do this well. His father sat in my car.
 I'm years old. He's got a chance to have a good job, have the dignity associated with a job and life. And that, yeah.
 Thank you. That's why they like it. We really appreciate your passion and your commitment to especially some of our disenfranchised population, especially dear and near to my heart with being over Dugan Center. So Community Corrections is proud to have you and that you've stayed in South Bend. So thank you so much for that. Any other comments?
 Oh, whatever you choose, I can open it up for both of you. Eli, you got a question? Just quickly, what's the expected lifespan for this equipment? Well, I've never been a business person before, so I don't know how long equipment lasts. It's big industrial equipment. It's
 The lifespan of the equipment is probably more a function of the lifespan of the technology of the solar cell. That as the technology of the solar cell grows, it makes the equipment obsolete. That's part of the problem with the current line. It took three years before it wasn't up to the task. The equipment that I bought has the next four generations of it. So I tried to buy my way out of that problem.
 i don't i think there are little bits of things we bought that might not last for 15 years and i think the big stuff would it cost hundreds of thousands of dollars so uh i think i'd fix it before i scrapped it so but it's an empirical question that to be honest this is my first run at being a business person so thank you
 I appreciate you taking the run at it. Pardon me? I appreciate you taking the run at it. Not everybody does, but I take that as a compliment. Thank you. At this point, I'll turn it over to the public to see if there's any public comments. There's no one from the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you. Do you see anyone wishing to speak in opposition? No, there's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well.
 Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. Council, I'll come back to you for final comments. Councilor Tomas Morgan. Thank you, President McBride.
 Mr. Regan, it's been my privilege to be able to watch your business grow and to visit it in its early years on Sample Street and to follow your journey with this population and your business and then to see it in your new location. So I express my gratitude that you went to research.
 remain invested here in South Bend. And thank you for that commitment. And I share with others, this really is a gold standard in what we talk about in the industry as meeting the triple bottom line. Mr. Reagan is committed to investing in people, doing good for our planet, while also making a profit. And so hopefully that will grow. But so I commend you and thank you.
 Thank you, Councillor Wax.
 And viewing that from viewing this from that perspective, I'm not sure that I'm convinced that this makes sense just from a pure economic sense, because the percentage that's abated is is a pretty high percentage of the total anticipated amount. That said, I don't think speaking for myself and I think my colleagues share this, I don't think this project could be looked at from a pure economic sense. There's.
 One of the more difficult issues that we have is providing an opportunity for people coming out of incarceration to where they could be productive members of society so that they could be independent, they could have an income, they could be a positive impact. Yeah.
 Those are hard to come by and the fact that you're providing that and you're looking to expand that to be able to provide that opportunity to more people is something that I think would make sense to partner in, even if I'm not convinced on the economics of it.
 Yeah, maybe I'm not supposed to make comments here, but I could convince myself that the economics aren't right from a very personal level. And I do it anyway. So, yeah, a lot of reasons that we do things in the world. Not all of them are economically motivated. Thank you, Councillor Lee. Yes, I would like to say, especially being the first district representative where this where your new location is at that.
 The work that I've done for many years working with people that are incarcerated, when they come out of jail, it's hard. It's hard to figure out how to make it and how do you take somebody who might have been making money in the streets and show them a better way. It makes a tremendous difference when a man works or a woman works differently.
 and they can build their life based on the opportunities that are given. So I am very much excited about this opportunity, especially that it's the technology of the future and it's going to continue to grow. And we look at the great opportunity to turn people's lives around. And that's when private and the city coming together, working together,
 Because at the end of the day, it's what affects the residents. And if we can turn somebody's life around, give them a good paying job, it does so much for a person's mental health and their life. So thank you. Yeah, absolutely. And you should all come visit the plant. I think Rachel's been there a couple of times. Come on over. Councilor Hammond.
 This is a very interesting business that you run. I have spent the majority of my time on the council working with the homeless in our city. And what I view this as doing is interrupting that.
 pathway for incarcerated individuals to end up on the streets and homeless. And it makes the job for the service providers and those of us that try to serve the homeless in our community a little bit easier to know that there are a number of folks that are being employed and that you obviously provide a great deal of care for these individuals.
 And they don't need to become part of that statistic in our community. And I want to thank you for that. Thank you. With that being said, Council, what's your pleasure? And move for adoption. Second. We're moving second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Iskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 council member warner council member wax president mcbride aye nine eyes thank you resolution 2345 has been adopted bills on first reading clerk jones will you give bill 4623 a reading
 46-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, alley between 1301 Elwood Avenue and 1405 Portage Avenue. No, sorry. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 46-23 to Public Works and Property Vacation for third reading public hearing on July 24th. So moved.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Motion's carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give 4723 a first reading? 4723, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adding the status of homeless to the protected classes of persons under South Bend Human Rights Ordinance, Chapter 2, Article 9 of South Bend Municipal Code in establishing the definition for homeless. Thank you.
 I'll make a motion that we have the committee hearing for this on Wednesday, July 19th at 5 p.m. And followed by second and third reading on Monday the 24th. There's been a motion and a second on the floor to have the Health and Public Safety Committee meeting on July 19th at 5 p.m. And then for second and third reading on July 24th.
 All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. I would just ask the chair to have appropriate administration and legal there. I had some calls, concerns about the bill already. I will try to circulate to as many people.
 people that would have what to say thank you where is the meeting going to be oh i hope it's available here um but i guess we could look into that carl jones could you make sure that or i don't know her chance could you make sure that to see if the room is available for july 19th at 5 p.m yep thank you so much conspire i would ask that you have them contact me because i've heard nothing from anyone i've been getting calls and emails also
 I'd love to speak to them. I guess there is a comment about this would allow encampments anywhere in the city. It would allow what? Encampments that there would be. This would open up for encampments anywhere in the city. This? No, absolutely not. Okay. That's what I'm hearing from neighbors is that there was a comment made or something. Not by me.
 Thank you. At this time, I will go to any. Is there any unfinished business? Yeah, absolutely. And I'm sorry to have to do this, but I do. I was called to a couple of residents houses on Edgewater last week to receive the.
 it says quality drinking water City South Bend 2023 annual report I don't know if anyone else has gotten this I get one every year yeah so on the back the resident was asking about um lead lines need to be replaced and it shows a diagram maybe a map perhaps of the lead lines that are in front of um in this particular case his house
 He was asking questions about how does he and why would he have to replace the lead line? He thought that that was an undue and unfair bill on his end that he would have to obviously pay for. I'm not sure. And he also asked when did he become became responsible?
 For that area of the street as well, because he went back to the 70s and 80s, he's older resident and said that we've never been responsible for that area as residents or homeowners.
 So I don't know who else has had discussions about lead line replacement. We've seen it. They're all in Benton Harbor. They're taking all their lead lines out. And we've had a discussion here in this city for a considerable amount of time. And if we're expecting residents to get rid of the lead lines in our city, we'll never get rid of them.
 I don't know who has enough money to have those lead lines replaced on their own. But usually the federal government provides support and relief for cities, not residents, cities to take care of this atrocious issue. My question to this council, is there any appetite on this council's end?
 to uh have a discussion I I don't know with the mayor's office the mayor himself or um public works on how this city is going to rid itself of red lines um not my conversation obviously uh it's the residence conversation I'm bringing it to you because um he was very concerned with the expense that he would have to incur to get rid of something that's hazardous
 to him and obviously to the entire community, us included. I think it might be good if you could reach out and possibly have a utilities update. And then that would. Hey, there we go. There we go. I think that would be. Absolutely. And I will. I just wanted to make sure that we have the appetite for it. I don't want to bring anything before this council that no one really cares about. And I think that this is a big issue, a huge issue, to be honest with you.
 The other thing that I wanted to bring before this council as well is there were comments made earlier about you get what you want, get what you just take what you can get. That wasn't my comment.
 My comment about the development on Portistry had everything to do with what is legal or illegal. I've been a part of depositions, I've been a part of a council that actually got sued because the council desired not to grant a Black lady in the ritzier part of the city zoning exceptions that she was actually due.
 Within those conversations, we come to understand, or whether I did, that within zoning, we don't have a lot of yes or no that we can add to it. It's usually yes if it's already passed the smell test before it got to us. I just want to make sure that Mr. Lee and whomever else has a different understanding of what that was to understand that I wasn't telling you just take what you can get.
 I was talking about how the council in itself has to move as it relates to federal law and move as it relates to state law. No, I'm not advocating for a bait shop. No, I'm not advocating for something that will potentially harm the health and the wellness of this city. But what I do know that there are laws that we have to abide by. And I do know that because that's my experience.
 And so, no, I was never advocating, but I was advocating for the fact that a business owner wants clearing the zoning laws that are already in place.
 Then that business owner is allow what that zoning allows them to receive. If it's a vase shop, then it's a vase shop. If it's a butchery, then it's a butchery. If it's a if it's a bait shop, it's a bait shop. I don't have that ability. We've seen that happen historically with Jim Crow laws.
 And how we were and we watched this is our history books. We watched African-Americans, blacks not having the opportunity to go into certain areas or do things in their areas because a council who was not representative of that black population said, no, we don't think you deserve it. Now, they cleared every hurdle, checked every box. But somehow, some way somebody said, well, you don't deserve it. Well, we call that racism. We call that prejudice. Yes.
 That's why you have the stringent laws in place from the federal government to make sure that that doesn't occur anymore. So, no, I wasn't saying that. What I was saying was that we have laws that we have to abide by. And that's the way I performed that day.
 I digress. That was not what you said in that meeting. Well, she's a note taker and she has videos. You can go back through it. I got the video. Well, go back through it. I can, but that's not what you said. You basically said because of the downturn of that area,
 that they should just accept we're not going to get development so we should take what we get. That's what you said. And we were saying, no, we're not going to allow anybody to come in and bring something that's going to make the neighborhood worse. So that's why we were voting because it was a special exception. And we were voting against it because whenever it involves alcohol and tobacco, the council has to grant that special exemption. And because it was tobacco,
 We we weren't going to we weren't going to going to grant it. And so that was the whole discussion. And so he went back. He listened to what we were saying and came back and is willing to invest one point five million dollars. And so that just goes to show that when you stand up for what's right and you talk to people and treat people with respect.
 You can get somewhere further. And so that that that was the whole point of I was explaining the market, sir. That's the only thing I was explaining. It wasn't against you. It wasn't for you. It wasn't against the gentleman. That was that was what you said that day. I know what I said that day. I'm saying to you that was not in representation of me being for or against it. It was the law that I was speaking about, sir. That's the only thing that I was doing. Counselor Wyatt.
 Yes, I would like to give an update from our last council meeting at that time on the privilege of the floor. We had a citizen that came to the podium and had raised concerns in regards to residents parking illegally on their yards and also blocking entryways into some of the alleys.
 And the president, McBride, had asked that the Residential Neighborhoods Committee would look into this. And so I did reach out to Councilman Eli Wax, who's over health and public safety. And we have agreed that we will have a joint committee meeting in regards to this particular issue, which is really increasing numbers.
 on Tuesday, July the 25th. I did reach out to all of the residential committee members, so they are aware. I'm still waiting to get feedback, but I just want to let you know that we are moving forward. And there are other issues too that are impacting the quality of life for our citizens. I did reach out to Community Investment and they will have representatives. I mean, representatives.
 um uh used to be the code enforcement office that would be part of that meeting as well so I'm just giving you an update thank you is there any new business oh back to unfinished or new I don't know what we are okay I jumped the gun on setting that date um Council member and it's got skin for me that the city has a conflict at that time with the wellness challenge um
 um Mr Palmer what would the best way to go about I mean I could should I just put out a notice to cancel that meeting and schedule make a new notice to schedule that for Thursday I think would probably be a better day for it or correct could we do that here or pardon me could we do that here make that motion or has that time sailed I would simply post a notice that it's canceled and then
 provide a new notice the same way perfect at the same time okay and this way we could confirm that we have a room first so that's what i get for trying to sneak something through thank you thank you at this time i will turn it over to the purpose of the floor is there anyone in the public wishing to speak for the purpose of the floor of course welcome
 You know why I'm here. Sharon Benicki, 3822 Ford Street. Henry, this one's for you. Fifth drive-by shooting just over a year. I didn't do it. Friday morning. No, but your problem house had five drive-bys before it turned tragic. We hit five on Friday morning at 2 a.m. There was a glitch with ShotSpotter. I've been in conversation with Chief. He's taking care of it.
 Five drive-by shootings in what should be a nice, normal, middle-class neighborhood. Hard-working people. We shouldn't be afraid to sleep at night. This one happened at 2.16 in the morning. We can call it a drive-by, but they really weren't driving because we have moved our cameras to pick up cars. They were on foot, walking. The neighbors are very concerned. They have a few questions they wanted me to ask.
 One, the light on Chicago Street that was supposed to be taken care of last fall got moved to this fall, was supposed to be in spring because of the issues in the neighborhood, and there's still nothing. Last year at the press conference that was held at the corner of Ford and Chicago, the comment was made that we were getting curbs and sidewalks on Chicago, and there's been no movement on that.
 So they'd like to know where we're at with all that. Talked to some other residents and there were supposed to be speed bumps on Ford Street. And we were led to believe they would be between Walnut and Olive, which is quite a lengthy stretch with no stop signs, nothing to stop them. And it made sense down there. Instead, they ended up on Ford Street between Lombardi and Sample.
 Two of them back to back, and I'm not really sure why, because the area on Ford Street between Walnut and Olive is a straight shot where the area between Ford and Sample is more of a curve, and there is a stop sign in between there. Just a reminder that the crime stat meeting is this Wednesday night at the South Bend Police Department.
 If you can be there, I would highly encourage you to be there to hear what the other citizens of the city have to say to see what's going on in their neighborhoods. I go, I post the screenshots of all the stats. I'm personally asking for an award since my address will be on the report for the fourth month in a row. Scott said he'll look into it and see, get back with me.
 And last but not least, the biggest concern I'm hearing, especially these crime stat meetings, is the citizens are calling the council members and not getting calls back. And it breaks my heart because there's probably only two council members' names that have not been mentioned to me that these people have not received calls back from.
 Every seven of you have been reached out to by people at these crime stat meetings and have not heard back. And I they come to me and they were like, well, how do you do it? And I tell them I come here and I put it out for the world to see. They're not comfortable coming here for the world to see. So maybe if you go to where they're at or call them back, I don't know. But that's.
 It's very disappointing to me when I tell them I can reach out and get contact, and they're like, I reach out and I get nothing. I don't know what to tell you. Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Yeah, Sharon, I just wanted to follow up. I did follow up with Eric about the Chicago streetlight. They haven't forgot about it. They lost Finn. So when they lost Finn, they had to put somebody else to follow up in his spot.
 to follow up with things like this on the lighting. So they do have the diagram. They know what they have to do. Of course, you know that's some underground work, but I will follow back with him again. So that hasn't been forgotten. The curbs and sidewalks, that was through the council allocation that I personally submitted because of the problems in that area and was trying to uplift that area. And that work was supposed to be done this year. And as far as I know, it's still on course unless there is a delay with some type of contractors that I'm unaware of.
 but I can follow up on that. As far as the speed bumps, I don't have an answer for you on the speed bumps. And finally, if there is a time when all of the neighbors would like to get together and sit down and talk with me, because I do return all of my phone calls, I have talked to some of the neighbors in your area, I would be more than happy to do that.
 Because I have worked pretty hard to try and to focus specifically on that area because I've talked with mothers, you know, they had their children over there and it's a terrible situation. And I wish there was something I could do to quit making people act the way they do.
 Um, unfortunately I don't have a magic ball to make that happen. If I did, it would all stop. Believe me. So please reach out if they want to get in touch with me. I do return my calls. If they call my office, it'll go to a voicemail to my email and I would be happy to sit down and have that discussion with them. And I did talk to some of them when I did a bunch of canvassing in the spring. I would encourage them to email me as well too, because I go to the crime stats part of my job every, um...
 Thursday morning. So I'm in the meetings for hours that morning. So that's why I don't go to the weekly ones because I'm in there for as the as Duke them for every Thursday morning for several hours. So I'm definitely willing if anyone wants to talk to me as well, they can email me as well.
 Any other? Oh, I just wanted to let you know that unfortunately that's the same night as the Rub Village Neighborhood Association that they have the crime. But one of our members usually fills us in because he gets like a printout or something that and then he gives it to us the following meeting. So my apologies. I know I haven't been there, but it's a conflict on the Neighborhood Association. Ma'am, were you wanting to speak for the floor? Please come up to the podium and state your name and address for the record. Okay.
 Good evening. I'm Debra Doral, 21677 Otten Road, South Bend.
 Thank you for your work tonight. This has been very impressive. A lot of good things going on. I'm coming to you again about the riverbank and trail maintenance practices that are happening within the city. I have been continuing to meet with all of the people involved, all of the decision makers, as well as the field professionals here.
 And disappointingly, I'm here to confirm to you that the information and the recommendations have been out there for years. We've had some very high quality professional people interacting with the parks and giving very polished feedback.
 instructions about how to go forward through the EAC committee. And there's a lot of PR floating around and a lot of fingers being pointed up the ladder. But really, every year the situation gets worse. It's really kind of confounding because even a beginning gardener and farmer knows you start small.
 You don't want to destroy all the vegetation along the entire riverbank within the city limits when you don't have money.
 You don't have tools. You don't have staff. You don't have information. You don't have time. You know, there's a huge job that a very small staff is being asked to do for the city. We are expanding trails this year. We are expanding parks this year. Their responsibility is growing.
 But their staff is actually in some cases shrinking and they really only have spray and bush hogs to do this work with. It's just really beyond them.
 So I'm going forward with meeting with John Martinez and his staff this Thursday. We lost a couple weeks due to illness and death in the family, but we are moving forward. I'm going to be talking tomorrow to some of the county entities and then next week to the Parks Board. I particularly want to direct my comments to the Park Committee.
 Because I think we need to have representation from the council on this in some way. I have agreement from several stakeholders for two meetings. And according to John Martinez, he is trying to put a plan together by the end of July. I feel that's too ambitious. This has been beyond them for over five, six years already. And the problems are pretty deep.
 As far as how the city handles all of the public expectations, there's a lot of outdated and misinformation still being kind of pressured on this staff. And so we need to raise the bar quite a bit on this. I did send a letter, a 19-page report with photographs of the history going back to July of 2018, I think it is.
 And I also sent in a second email to the council, everyone on the council. I hope you received that because it does line out a formal ask with a couple of steps. And so I'm we're trying to proceed. We're trying to work within the system.
 We're trying to work respectfully, and I think hopefully this fall, next spring, we won't see the same thing happening again. Thank you. I'm going to submit the 19-page black and white, which doesn't do it justice because, you know, it's not in color, but also the ask into the record. Is that okay? Who should I hand it to? Can you get that report from her, please?
 Mr. Hardy will get it from you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else that's expressing interest to speak at privilege of the floor? Thank you. With that being said, seeing none, this meeting is adjourned.