A LITTLE BIT OF A DELAY. SO I'D LIKE TO CALL THE MEETING TO ORDER. MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022. FIRST, JONES, I BELIEVE YOU HAVE SOME COMMENTS YOU MIGHT NEED REGARDING THE RATE FOR THIS MEETING AND OTHER EXPECTATIONS. FIRST, JONES, YOU ARE MUTED IF YOU'RE SPEAKING.
 Cliff Jones, are you there? If we can go back to the email, and I'll do the phone. Do you have the statement? Victoria, do you have the statement for the public to read about the expectations for the daily meetings? And if someone else prefers to call the roll. . . . .
 BE IT RECORDED THAT THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH VENICE BEGINNER MET IN PERSON VIA MICROSOFT CURRENT APP ON MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022 AT 7 PM. VICE PRESIDENT SHIRAD IS ASKING CALLS TO ORDER AT 7 O'CLOCK. OKAY, THAT'S THE MINUTE THAT WE NEED. WHAT WE NEED ARE THE...
 IT HAS TO DO, VICTORIA, WITH THE WAY THAT PEOPLE ARE TO INSERT THEIR NAME AND ADDRESS IN THE CHAT, IF THEY WISH TO GET THE EXPLANATION FOR THE MEETING VIA TEAM. I CAN ASK A QUESTION WHERE THAT'S UNSUPPOSED. THROUGH THE CARDINAL. IT'S BASICALLY A STATEMENT FOR THE PUBLIC THAT WISHES TO JOIN ON TEAM.
 IF THEY WISH TO READ, TO HAVE ANY INPUT DURING THE PUBLIC MEETING PROCESS, YOU NEED TO PUT YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS IN THE CHAT. AND ONCE YOU GET TO THAT PORTION OF THE PUBLIC MEETING, FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO SPEAK FOR OR AGAINST, WE WILL THEN CALL YOUR NAME OUT AS YOU PUT YOUR NAME INTO THE CHAT. ATTORNEY PALMER, IS THERE ANY OTHER INFORMATION? ALSO, THE ADDRESS AND SUPPORT ADDRESS. YES, AND YOUR ADDRESS AS WELL.
 So at this point I will go to the counsel portion, to which we do have a statement that we read for terms of expectations during the meeting. This respect for rude, sweet, or actions will not be tolerated, but speech or actions as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time.
 So at this time, we would have an invitation that will be given by Elder Melvin Smith of the Pentecostal Cathedral Church of God in Christ. And thank you for coming today. Thank you. Thank you for having me.
 Let us pray. Father God, in the name of Jesus, God, Lord, we thank you for this opportunity, God. But first and foremost, God, we ask that your presence be here today, God. Look on every councilman, every councilwoman, God, in the name of Jesus, God. Whatever their needs may be, God, bless their families, God. Give them ideas, oh God. New revenues, new funds.
 thoughts on how to lead this great city, God. We pray for the mayor of this city, God. We pray for a healing, God, from the time of his death to the soul of this city, God, giving victory, God, in his body. Oh, God, continue to bless, oh, God, every councilman, God, every person in the city of South Bay, God. We bless you through our city's faith. Our families protected in Jesus' name, we pray. We pray with that prayer, say amen. Amen. Thank you so much. At this time, we're going to go to the President of the Legion, if he's going to stand.
 I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. I PLEASE READ THE FLAG. AT THIS TIME, AT THIS TIME, AT THIS TIME, I'LL NEED SOMEONE I'LL NEED SOMEONE I'LL NEED SOMEONE FROM THE CLERK PROCESS FROM THE CLERK PROCESS FROM THE CLERK PROCESS TO CALL THE ROAD PLEASE. TO CALL THE ROAD PLEASE. TO CALL THE ROAD PLEASE.
 Vice President Shulman-Sasky? Present. Councilman Short-Warner? Present. Councilman Stanislaus? Present. Councilwoman Rachel Tomas-Morgan? Present. And Councilwoman Sharon White? Present. Would you please note that Councilwoman Hammond did report to me yesterday that she was going to try and log on via Teams. So my suggestion is that she's probably having a technical difficulty so I'll just ask her to come to Teams.
 So, that's another one. Thank you. At this time, we're going to go to reports from the subcommittee on minutes. On the agenda, it shows approval of the June 13th and June 27th meeting minutes, which I had assumed were available for Councilman West and Warner to review, but they are not. So, those will be at the next regular council meeting for approval.
 Moving on to special business. We have none. We have no reports from the city processing So I will now entertain a motion to resolve into the community of the whole And move and second all those in favor say aye aye any approves The community holds down session this is the portion of the council's meeting with bill to give a second reading in public hearing
 I WISH TO SHARE WITH YOU THAT BILL THAT WILL BE GIVEN A SECOND READING IN PUBLIC HEARINGS. I'M GOING TO GIVE A FIRST READING AS DEBORAH COMMITTEE MEETING IN PUBLIC HEARINGS PRIOR TO THE DEBORAH. IN ADDITION, YOU WILL HEAR FROM THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE COMMITTEE WHERE THE BILL WAS DISCUSSED AND THE BOTOX OF THE DISCUSSION. IF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE IS A ZONI ORDINANCE, A REPORT FROM THE STAFF MEMBER WILL BE GIVEN. IN ALL OTHER SITUATIONS, ALL THE PRESENTATION ON THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE WILL BE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWED AND WILL FOLLOW THE COMMITTEE REPORT.
 ALL PRESENTATIONS SHALL BE ON TIME. ATTORNEY HOMER, WE HAD SEVERAL THAT WERE TABLED. DO WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT, OR DO WE JUST MOVE ON TO ONE THAT WE HAVE? WHAT TIME THEY WERE TABLED? SO BILL 16-22 WAS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 8th.
 BILL 1722 WAS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 8TH AND BILL 30-22 WAS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 20 YES SO UH CLEAR'S OFFICE WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE BILL 34 ARE YOU THERE YES CAN YOU HEAR ME YES OKAY UM BILL 34 GO AHEAD YES WHEN YOU GET 34-22 I'LL READ YOU
 Bill 3422, Public Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Sections 2-12.1a and 2.21.1.2b, 3 and 4 of the South Bend Municipal Code to change the residency restriction of the Youth Advisory Council members. All right, is there a committee report?
 Yes, the residential neighborhood community heard of Bill 34-20-2, and it was a proposal to take it over in the state. Is this a petition of presence? I take the speech in name of Andrews and share with us two points regarding the bill that was reported. I'm going to share my message with you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 What you have before you is request to amend the the subscription of the youth advisory council members. For example, we would like to send it to the city of Indiana eligibility and not the youth living in the county of Indiana eligible for the council. Currently,
 the board members have written that only those who live in South Bend, Indiana can serve. But we do have a number of students who attend not only Puppet but other schools within San Joseph County would like to extend to them the opportunity to be able to serve on the youth council. We can take up to 15 members and we have had to
 not really you're free I'll job you know in the bottom will be in on on up that or or all you have a question for this year what the I'll
 Not that I know of, I do know that Mr. Walker has one. I do know that the county council, they have started recognizing outstanding youth as well as outstanding business owners, owner-monkey basis. But as far as having a new council, I'm not aware that they do that part. But you're welcome. Any other council members?
 I just have a little public hearing question. Uh, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 34-22? I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of the bill 34-22. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition? No, I don't see anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition as well.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 34-22 has now closed. Councilmembers, would you like to make any statements? I would just like to say that seeing the youth in action on our youth council has been invigorating. Thank you, Ms. White, and those who have helped participate and to provide guidance for our young people. I started many years ago on a youth council. Oh, God. About 35 years ago.
 AND IT PLANS TO SEE AND IT GETS KIDS INVOLVED. AND SO WE DEFINITELY WANT TO DO WHATEVER WE CAN TO GET THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO MAY GO TO OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS BUT MAY NOT LIVE. SOME PEOPLE MIGHT LIVE IN THE COUNTY. AND SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THOSE KIDS ARE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE. ANYWAY, IF NOT, I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION REGARDING BILL 34-22.
 I move to send bill 34-22 to the full council as a favorable recommendation. Okay. All right, clerk Jones, could you call roll please? Yes. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill number 34-22 will be sent to the Board Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the Board Council. So moved. It has been moved and seconded. All that agrees, say aye. Aye. Any that opposed, say nay. Motion to take this.
 So, the first regular meeting is now as we can see. We're going to go to the portion where the bill's on third reading. This is a portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding the bills that were heard during the community as a whole. First, Joan Cucci-Polk.
 I WILL STATE THAT BILL 1622 IS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 8th. 1722 IS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 8th. 3022 IS TABLED UNTIL AUGUST 22nd. SO AT THIS POINT, WE HAVE ONE BILL LEFT, THE THIRD READING, WHICH IS BILL 3422, CLIFF JONES CAN DECREASE TO 3422 AT THE READING.
 Yes. 3422, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Sections 2-12.1a and 2.21.1.2b, 3 and 4 of the South Bend Municipal Code to change the residency restriction of the Youth Advisory Council members.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the community as a whole regarding Bill 34-22? Yes, Chair. Bill 34-22 was served in the community as a whole and the full council is a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion regarding the bill. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Could the council please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee?
 Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Wax. Aye. Council member White. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice president Miscavige. Aye. Council member Davis. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you bill 3422 has passed. We're now going to move to resolution.
 THIS IS A PORTION OF THE COUNCIL MEETING WHERE COMMON COUNCIL HEARTS BILLS FILED AS PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS. THE TITLE OF EACH PROPOSED RESOLUTION IS READ BY THE CITY PERK. A REPORT FROM THE COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON OF THE STANDING COMMITTEE TO WHICH THE BILL WAS REQUIRED AND ADVISED TO BE ACCEPTED IN THE NEXT SEGMENT. THE REQUIRING REQUIRES A PUBLIC SEARCH.
 I have a motion to accept the substitute bill for resolution 22-31. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. 22-31. Okay.
 A RESOLUTION OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH INDIANA APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE NEAR WEST SIDE NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN. THANK YOU. COUNCIL MEMBER TOOLMUS, MORGAN. YES. SO WE'VE HEARD IN COMMUNITY INVESTMENT COMMITTEE THIS AFTERNOON AND COMES TO THE COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE RESOLUTION.
 Thank you. Mr. Corcoran is here. If you would give me a minute to just stay with us. Good evening, Council Members. My name is Tim Corcoran. I am the Director of Planning for the City of South Bend with offices on the 14th floor of the County Bureau.
 Okay, so thank you for taking time to do the presentation this evening. I have sort of abbreviated the presentation from this afternoon, but if there are any questions from anyone from the part that I mentioned before, please let me know and we
 I'm at the end of the year is not a. Like on the. The. The. The. The.
 that have been used to create this plan will somehow in some ways suggest that the plan will be completed. But if you do not maintain that... So, the council may need to, if I may please, just kind of out of order of the meeting, we need to do the presentation first, and once you get to the presentation, we do have that time allotted for council member staff questions. So I just want to make sure we follow proper procedure.
 My apologies for cutting you off, but I actually wanted to. I thought you were going to be asking a question, so I'll stand corrected and if you could move forward with the presentation, please. Okay, thank you. So I wanted to just first address some of the changes that have been made in the planning commission and
 changes that have been made in consultation with the neighborhood association and residents of the near west side neighborhood in conjunction with concerns brought forward by uh counseling wife and other members to uh strengthen some of the uh language around environmental concerns
 So the changes made specifically go to page 5, at the end of the Brownfields concerns, the existing conditions map, including a graphic that shows the boundaries of the site in question. We, on page 15, updated project descriptions to include property owners and work with government agencies to address environmental concerns on Brownfields sites.
 And on page 42, the implementation strategy 5.5 states work with federal, state, regional, and local governments to enhance property owners with resources to assess and alleviate ground-breaking sites. Furthermore, we updated some areas around the 15 museum page on page 19 and 20, and updated concept graphics for the block southwest of Shaper and Pine Street.
 change in text on the letter F, and now read future use for future use now. Finally, specific factor on pages 25 and 27, the update of the street,
 improvements in traffic chronographic include intersection improvements at the 1000 block of West Washington Street between the Solaris and the Center for Civic Innovation to ensure that the traffic calming measures that were discussed in the meeting were clearly stated on the map on the map.
 One of the changes to the existing conditions map that I wanted to highlight is the area in the orange box. This area is identified as large areas of industrial land in various states of the East and that there are brownfields in those areas. This area represents a land known as industrial in the near west side neighborhood.
 And we added the boundaries to identify those industrial properties which may have environmental concerns. This includes the 1600 block of West Washington, the city-owned property, the Polish iron site, and South End drainage site, among others. So just as a brief recap to the document presentation, what does the neighborhood demand?
 So the neighborhood plan has a time frame. It's a shared long-range vision for the future of five to 10 years. It's a statement of what the neighborhood wants to achieve and a strategy to reach those goals. It's a guide for making decisions from city departments, common council, and partner stakeholders.
 It's a starting point for more detailed planning and public engagement of individual projects with the school. And it amends the city's comprehensive plan. That's a huge importance as well. The comprehensive plan is continued to update its remodeling plan and processes.
 The imagery in the plan, the maps, diagrams, photographs, and other graphics represented within the plan are illustrations of the future. The images are not intended to represent the exact results expected from the implementation of the plan, but they provide a general representation of the form, principles, building-type, land uses, infrastructure, and other elements of the plan's values.
 This is the boundary of the neighborhood. The northern side of the plan is founded by the South, called Washington Street, East on the Northern Street and the South Railroad Corridor. We had an extensive public engagement process that started in March 2021, where we made efforts to reach out to neighborhood neighbors. We had various stakeholder meetings with neighborhood groups.
 We've established a virtual online engagement platform to help deal with people who may not be comfortable in public settings, which is of course during the time when concerns about COVID limited our ability to meet in public. We had a visioning workshop where neighbors were able to come together to talk about strengths and weaknesses and desire for what the future of their neighborhood could look like.
 And we followed that up with a priority workshop where the residents were able to talk about the things that were most important out of all the things that we talked about during the vision workshop.
 After the priorities workshop, we put together a draft plan. We posted that plan on the Together South Bend website. We also held an open house for people to come look at the plan. We looked at large posters that allowed people to dive a little deeper into the plan. We had people there all day to answer questions. We had two presentations during the day for people to be able to come at different times to ask questions and do more of the details of the plan.
 Through all of that, the engagement theme that really kind of comes to the surface relates to streets and transportation, in which some of the priorities are Washington Street, Western Avenue, improvements to Chippen Street and so on.
 consistent lighting retreats, repair of curtains and sidewalks, and the restoration of brick streets were possible. Those are some of the main priorities that came out of that. For housing, it was to promote and expand the housing repair program, but also to promote some still housing opportunities throughout the neighborhood. In building and zoning, promote neighborhood scale, corner stores and businesses within the neighborhood. And other amenities included, which I didn't fully emphasize,
 parks to be implemented in the neighborhood. And so working how we can work with the neighborhood and other landowners to establish local parks. And those were really kind of the priorities within each of those broad themes. But there are other sub-letters, priorities that are still important things that come out in those broader themes. Those broader themes then helped us to create this map, which is sort of a one-stop graphical depiction of all of the
 ideas that are generated from the engagement of the residents as well as the departments to help try to put forth a vision for the neighborhood. And those areas are highlighted more detail through the plan. So those numbers relate to particular projects or implementation strategies that are linked back to the public engagement as well as ideas for upgrading infrastructure.
 the neighborhood plans um importantly updates and proposes a new zoning map the zoning map does not change the zoning in the neighborhood from the adoption of the plan tonight but it um
 The zone map update, however, is a specific strategy that is highlighted in the implementation matrix so that there's a future council action and a separate process to update the zoning and the neighborhood so that the official zoning map matches the proposed zoning map within the
 within the neighborhood plan. And this is done on purpose. You have to address or send letters to everyone in the neighborhood to talk about whether the property has been up zoned, down zoned, or changed in a way. And even if the property has not been changed, you're probably within 300 feet of the property that has been
 Proposed teaching so basically we're going to alert everybody in the neighborhood with a letter Talk about that The property owners will be notified and given an opportunity to discuss those zoning changes prior to the meeting and for instance if the property owner chooses that they do not want their property to be rezoned as a rule
 of not changing the project. So, this also provides interim guidance for staff, if a rezoning for special assessment is sought prior to an overall zoning map change, so between now and when that map changes, it'll help give staff the ability to recommend favorably or unfavorably to a potential rezoning request. And, fortunately,
 The zone map changes discourage the conversion of existing buildings from single families to multi-families by cutting up the building to smaller units without going through a special exception process to the council so that the neighbors can be had a little bit more comfort knowing that
 but a lot of the historic homes will remain that way and if there's good reasons to look at changing that it always comes to you to help make that decision this is the proposed zoning net and i won't go into the changes but some of the things that we did was look at the up-to-date parts of what we're looking at because one zone is primarily for families to allow for more neighborhood scale multi-family by rights
 So that kind of changes the beige in color to the brown color. We did this primarily to look at ways to make this more economically feasible to develop in areas where the current housing market is challenged from an appraisal gap perspective. All those ideas come together in an implementation matrix of the new plan.
 In the matrix we have action items. Those are all the items that are listed on the left in the center. Areas of who is responsible to deliver those items, whether it's a city or a partner. And it lists any potential other partners that we want to engage in the specific action item. And finally, it causes a potential timeline for when those actions can occur.
 With that, I want to thank you for allowing me to speak with you. And tonight, I'm open to questions. And if there are any things that you thought earlier that you'd like to revisit, let me know. The whole presentation is right after this. Thank you so much for the presentation. I do believe we have a question from Congressman Davis. What is the next step in this process? Residents always go.
 right, instead of the plan that's been created, that you want to bring about those things. You know, being alone doesn't know that it doesn't happen this way. Yeah, so I think the conversation or the residents deserve the next step in how that actually plays out, bringing those things into relation. Sure, so there's two ways that I think about that. There are
 Infrastructure related projects that the city is able to use as funding to kind of be available in those projects primarily revolve around pre-state projects the idea of trying to develop a park in the neighborhood is one and we've already begun conversations with landowners in the neighborhood who have already started that idea
 The zoning changes obviously are something that we will be doing as post-adoption. When it comes to the private side of development, that's the trickiest. And that's because it does rely on outside investment to recognize perhaps the value that are put forth in the plan and recognize the opportunities that are there for them to take advantage of.
 One of the things that we hope is through the rezoning process we can make some of that development a little bit easier and perhaps the fact is what we want to reinvest by the ability to do small scale multifamily within the neighborhood. As part of this, there is a series of city-owned properties in this neighborhood, and we're
 Many of those parcels we asked residents directly during the planning process what their vision for some of those parcels would be. And what we hope to do is start to develop more and more details
 what those parcels can look like, and then try to market those more actively to the community to see what response we get. So being more proactive with at least the city's properties. And if we start to see interest in those properties, I think we've seen in other areas of the city that we start a bit of a flywheel effect, hopefully, that people start to get more interested in parts that
 in some ways, they've forgotten their loss. People don't know it exists. So I think this helps that process. But as you know, it is slow. Development is slow in South Bend, generally speaking. And we've seen more happen in the last, say, five, six years than it's been a long time. But it is a slow process. Last question. What do you think about the support budget for playing
 like you would attach like a dollar figure to the plan from the city to help do a project or a couple projects. And it's the same thing. So it's like, okay we'll pass this through and with the passing you get 30 grand. And the group that worked on this actual project gets the 30 grand and they're able to build a playground.
 For these are just examples, this is not necessarily, you know, but what do you think about something like that? I mean, this is almost like we do these things and we have these futuristic ideas about how the community should look.
 Everybody, you know, is happy with it, but it doesn't happen like that. It's years and years, and sometimes it just never really happens, right? So giving the neighbors an opportunity to actually see it happen more immediate than waiting for the long-term effect.
 Well, I think one of the things that we did do was try to identify the number one priorities in different categories. So I feel like some of the priorities are there.
 what they're talking about is how do we get them to budget to deliver some of those fire and I think that's a process that I think happens in conversations between councils and mayor's office to help look at what are the ways we can start to implement, especially some of the public side of these projects, the ones that like the TK project, the ones that we know we can do, like those have been the city's best experience.
 And then take other actions. We've already taken some actions for instance, what was it? Through a lateral program to help incentivize the development in the neighborhood. So I think there's, I like the idea that the neighborhood can participate more in that and we do intend that any project, especially public projects that happen in the neighborhood, that there will be public engagement.
 again and again and again for every project that comes up. No, thank you for the answer. We'll talk about it. Thank you. Hey Councilmember, is there any other Councilmember to answer this question? Okay. Seeing none then, we are going to go to the public portion of the meeting.
 During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the counsel. We ask that you keep giving your name and address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during the rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those who can say they are going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of substitute bill 2231 to state of New Mexico? Good evening. My name is Ann Mannix. My address is 724 West Washington. I'm president of the Near West Side Neighborhood Association. And I'm proud of our neighborhood association. We have a lot of articulate, informed, involved residents.
 And different people worked on this plan. Several residents went door to door with surveys. Some of those residents are over age 80. I don't know how they did all that blocking, but they did a lot. And we attended meetings and enjoyed working with the planner. We support the plan. Things that we particularly care about are new homeowners, affordable housing. There's a strong desire for a park, like Tim said.
 STREET SCAPE, STREET SCAPE IMPROVEMENTS TO FLOW DOWN THE CARS AND IMPROVING THE BROWN FIELD. I THINK THEY'VE BEEN MENTIONED IN THE PLAN AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT IS THE FIRST STEP TO RESOLVE AN ISSUE. SO TOMORROW NIGHT OUR NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN, WE'RE HAVING A PLANNER COMING UP WITH US ABOUT THE TESTING THAT'S GOING ON. AND THEN WHEN WE GET THE RESULTS, WE CAN SEE HOW MUCH WORK THERE IS TO DO.
 So I want to thank Tim Corcoran and the planners and the council, particularly Turn White for us, the environmental issues, and Rachel Tomas Morgan stayed on it too. I think this plan will be a benefit to the neighborhood and the plan is nearly done, so like Henry said, time for the work to begin. So we hope to keep working with the city on neighborhood issues. Thank you. Thank you for your comments.
 Is there anyone else here to seek a favor? And I do not see anyone with their hand raised on... Oh, I'm sorry, let me see. Can you just give me your name and address, please? Come Holy Spirit. I am Roselle Newbill. I'm at 1217 West Judson for over 70 years. I think it's a great idea. Probably have a little tag to both. I think you can work it out. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 Is there anyone else that can speak in favor? This is Clerk Jones. I don't see anyone from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 2231. Can you hear me? Yes, I sure can. This is Steven Ziegler, and I just want to thank everyone for all the hard work they've done. The only thing I wanted to call out was the incredible diligence. Is there anyone in charge for the record, please?
 I missed that through feedback. Can you say that one more time? Hello, Mr. Beaver, are you there? I sure am. Can everybody hear me? Yes, we can hear you now. Yes. Can you get me the address, please?
 Fantastic. My name is Steven Ziegler, 803 West Washington. Happy to be a new part of the South Bend community. And I just wanted to thank the whole team at the city for such diligence and listening to the community, making adjustments and just being there for us to do these meetings. So all in favor, just like everyone else has said. Thank you, everybody. OK, thank you for your comments. I appreciate that. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor? I believe I don't see anybody else in the chat.
 So at this point we're going to go to anyone wishing to speak against Bill 2231. Is there anyone here wishing to speak against? This is Clerk Jones. There's no one in the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak against Bill 2231. Thank you so much. I do not see anybody present in the chamber wishing to speak against. So going back to the council, any comments?
 YEAH. I WANT TO SAY WHAT I SAID AT THE END, BUT THIS IS A COMMON SEGMENT, NOT A QUESTION. AVERAGE VACCINES WITHIN THE NEXT MONTH. AND I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE APPLICABLE FOR THIS COUNCIL TO BEGIN TO HAVE THESE DISCUSSIONS ABOUT GOALS TO TAKE THEIR DAY ROOM PLANNING
 We have a couple of people from the fourth council. This is the second district, one on the union, the second district. We have a few of them. And what happens and what has occurred is that, again, people show up with the expectation that the world is going to change.
 AND IT DOESN'T CHANGE EXACTLY JUST LIKE THAT. AND IN ORDER TO GET THERE AND GET THAT MOMENTUM GOING, WE DO SEND OUT ON INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATES, ET CETERA. BUT WHAT WE DO MORE COMPELLING, AND YOU CAN SEE THE ENERGY FOR A YEAR OLD WOMEN AND MEN WHO WALK UP AND DOWN THE STREET, IS THAT THEY HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ACTUALLY SEE THEIR WORK HAPPEN. SO A PARTICIPATORY BUDGETING SESSION FOR INSPECTIVE
 uh would do wonders with the morale of the community members um a big plan i've been doing plans multiple times and it never just ends up like we thought it would in the hours that we spent and tables and consultancy it doesn't happen that way and i and i believe that we're exhausting the members of the community so in order to get to the next step and keep the momentum going along with the answers i believe that attaching dollars to some sort of
 special project, special project would do wonders for these sorts of things. If you don't, we're going to continue the same thing over and over again and that's why the deafness is a disaster. So, that's my concern. Okay, thank you so much. Is there any other council members, council members, council members?
 I just would like to say that this is exciting and thank you for the presentation and we know that this is going to be something that is, I ask the question of economic impact, just looking at these drawings and what that area has the potential of being is exciting. And so I'm excited about this opportunity for the near west side neighborhood plan.
 Thank you, Councilwoman, for last morning. I also just...
 Again, I want to thank the planning team from the Department of Community Investment. But I also want to say that there have been a number of ways, programs that have been rolled out and are going to be rolled out, that certainly help to realize some aspects of this plan and other plans. Mr. Clark had mentioned the sewer lateral.
 connection. We also have coming up in the year some house plans that will be rolled out, additional incentives for infill and
 And while we're not talking about the amount that you mentioned, Mr. Davis, the city did launch a new grant program to empower neighborhoods and neighborhoods to ignite innovation grants for neighborhood inspiration, transformation, and enhancement grant programs. That was...
 provide $10,000 for neighborhood associations to for small projects that can be like banners or you know to add to a park so I just want to remind our neighborhood associations of of that grant that was just launched so I think that we
 work on a suite of programs that continue to incentivize infill and work with small developers that might basically see incremental development occur. Thank you. Thank you. Councilwoman Rice? Yes. Thank you.
 I would like to also say the planning committee, council members, as well as the community investment staff will bring forth this neighborhood plan, but also for the substitute version that you brought forward. I think that it is a great beginning, and as we know that we're going to have a new
 three more plans will be coming forward. So again, appreciate all your time and your effort. And I can't believe all the weekend I was going online trying to find as much information about Brownfields as I could. So that's how I spent my weekend. And I came across this statement and I think it speaks to how we collectively, that we must work together to
 ADDRESS SOME OF THE ISSUES THAT WE HAVE AND WHICH IS NOT JUST KNOWN TO OUR COMMUNITY. WHEN YOU LIVE WITHIN AN URBAN CITY, YOU HAVE THESE ISSUES SUCH AS BROWNFIELD. SOME WILL READ IT. IT SAYS SINCE THIS INSECTION IN 1995, D.C.A. BROWNFIELD PROGRAM HAS GROWN INTO A PROVEN RESULT-ORANGE PROGRAM THAT HAS CHANGED THE WAY CONTAMINATED
 Determinated properties is perceived, addressed, and managed. EPA's ground-fill program is designed to empower states, communities, and other stakeholders in economic development to work together in a timely manner to prevent,
 SAFETY, CLEANUP, AND SUSTAINABLE REUSE OF BROWNFIELD. SO I'M VERY, VERY EXCITED ABOUT WHERE WE'RE AT AND AS WE MOVE FORWARD THAT WE WILL ALWAYS BE MINDFUL OF THE ISSUES THAT OUR COMMUNITY AND OTHER COMMUNITIES WILL SAY THAT WE WILL FOCUS. SO THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANK YOU SO MUCH, COUNCILMAN LIGHT. AT THIS TIME, IS THERE A MOTION REGARDING THE SUBSTITUTE BILL 22-31?
 i'd like to move for adoption okay there has been a move a motion to move for adoption and it has been seconded for jones would you please call the role yes council member warner all right council member wax council member white council member tomas morgan hi
 Vice President Nisgothi? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The bill 22-31 has been adopted. We're going to move on to the next resolution, 22-35. And thank you, everyone, for the presentation.
 um could you please read the title of resolution and bill number 22-39
 2235, a resolution confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 505 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year mixed-use real property tax abatement for the Monroe LLC.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Rachel Florence Morgan is the committee reporter. Mr. Wood, start it in Community Investment Committee and come to the council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I see we have a presenter here. If you could give your name and address for the record. Mark Siemendorfer, Community Investment, 424 Facility. And uh, Mr. Williams, please go to the upstairs and say a few words to the public.
 So this was the first 5,000 square foot building. It's currently on an empty lot. This is the city of property on the corner of Michigan and Monroe. The first building we saw was Marshall Place on the first floor and the apartment. The second floor is .
 Now, the development is projected to cost a little over $149 with construction to begin next year. The company is also pursuing Indiana tax credits and development will be contingent upon being awarded credit. That can go to the next slide please.
 So, uh, the residential space will have affordability components, uh, breakdown of which is on the screen right now. Um, the project will also create a full-time job with a combined annual payroll of $170,000. Now, one thing that was not mentioned earlier, but the city has also, um, committed this, uh, one...
 especially with someone as prominent as this young lady is before us. So maybe there is a conversation. You do a lot of public speaking with youth about gun violence, right? And so Ms. Peters would probably be great at one of those discussions. I don't know. I'm just throwing it out there as an example, but I think that it makes sense. Thank you. Are there any other council members wishing to make a comment? Council Member White.
 I just want to thank you, Ms. Peters, for your commitment and your time that you have given to what I know is your vision and your passion. And I'm very hopeful that you will see excellent results. And I just thank you for, you know, coming back, thinking about South Bend, Indiana, and not only give your time, but your resources. And I can't wait to see this project go forward.
 Councilman Lee. Yes, I would also echo all of the things that have been said. Originally, when this all started, it was going to be in the first district. But, you know, I guess I'll vote for it. No, no, no. I want to say Devereaux has displayed great professionalism, great tenacity.
 Great wherewithal and dedication to bring this project. And as Mr. Davis said, this is something very new for our city. A young lady who went to Notre Dame, did very well and now and then went to the WNBA and is coming back to give back to a city that has given her so much. I'm very proud of her and her partners and those who have worked because it has not been an easy process, but she didn't give up.
 And so I'm looking forward to seeing this and other developments coming from her. The college athlete didn't quit. Well, she definitely took the ball and dunked it and did not and cut shot and all that good stuff. So I'm very proud of it. Councilman Wax.
 I just want to thank you. I'm not going to repeat what everybody else said, but thank you for your investment and vision for an area south bend that could really use a boost. I just had a quick question. Do you remember offhand the pre, the current tax value and the post-development projection for the property value or the property tax, if you don't have it? Yeah, I don't have it with me, unfortunately. Okay. I believe it was two years
 I did read the whole packet. All right. Thank you. I believe there's zero now, and comparatively speaking, over the next years of the abatement. There was the commercial, I believe, part of it. There was two different ones. I believe that one was $200 and some thousand dollars, and I cannot recall the other one. But it was definitely a net gain as to a zero where we're at right now. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you.
 And as my colleagues all here have said, thank you so much for your vision. Thank you for coming back to South Bend. I think it's wonderful that you haven't forgot us. And we're all looking forward to this project. And I do hope you get those tax incentives so that we can proceed with the project. So good luck to you on that.
 Thank you. I also would like to say, Councilman Davis, I would love to come back and speak on that. I've talked to Councilman Lee a few times about coming back and speaking to kids, but I actually literally last Monday was at the White House for the signing of the bipartisan gun bill because I do a lot of work with gun safety and awareness about gun violence. So I would absolutely love to do that. So please let me know. Thank you. Okay. At this point, then, is there a motion regarding Bill 22-35? Okay.
 I'd like to move for adoption. Second. Okay, it's been moved and properly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Vice President Nieskoski? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Seven ayes. Second. Second.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 22-35 has been adopted. Congratulations. Okay, so now we're going to go to the bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 35-22 a first reading? 35-22. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property, North South Alley between Victoria Street and East West Alley.
 Thank you. I would entertain a motion to send Bill 35-22 to Public Works and Property Vacation Committee for public hearing and third reading on August the 8th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor of the motion, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion passed. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 36-22 a first reading? Aye.
 3622, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 300 St. Louis Boulevard, Councilman and District number four in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would entertain a motion to send Bill 36-22 to the South Bend Plan Commission on August 15th and to ZNA Committee and Council for public hearing and third reading on August the 22nd. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion has passed.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 37-22 a first reading? 37-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South End, Indiana, appropriating additional funds of $46,080,000 from the American Rescue Plan Fund No. 263.
 Thank you. I would entertain a motion to send Bill 37-22 to Personal and Finance Committee for public hearing and third reading on August 8th. I move. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Any opposed? Motion is passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 38-22 a first reading?
 38.22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 232 LaPorte Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion to send Bill 38-22 to the South Bend Plan Commission on August 15th and to the ZNA Committee and Council for public hearing and third reading on August 22nd.
 So move second. It's been properly moved and seconded. All those in favor. Any opposed? The motion has passed. We're going to move on to the unfinished business and at this point I will turn it over to attorney Palmer in reference to the pending litigation. Thank you, Madam Vice President. Pending litigation that being considered is the what's known as the police tapes case.
 It's a case that began in 2012. It has been through the federal court system, both at the trial level and in the Court of Appeals. It came back to the state court. It's now gone through state trial court procedures where the council won on procedural issues. It was appealed by the interveners to the Indiana Court of Appeals.
 About a month ago, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed the trial court's decision and remanded it back to the trial court. As you recall, we had an executive session discussing the various options available to the council. That executive session was on July 12th. By state statute, it was not open to the public.
 but also by state statute. No decisions could be made at that time and no votes could be taken. So for purposes of tonight's meeting, this is under unfinished business in case any council member wants to make any motion, put anything up to a vote that would differ from what is the current plan for the litigation.
 Thank you, Attorney Palmer. Does everyone understand what he's laid before us? He has explained. Could, just so everyone will know what the current plan is. The current plan was the resolution passed by the council 10 years ago to issue the subpoenas and to obtain the requested recordings.
 so you're considering doing this we're just going to continue on the same track is what you're saying unless there is a motion made in the past tonight something different right correct okay so as in if there is no motion to be made that i visibly do not see one i would like to move on to new business
 Okay. Is there any new business to come before the council? Yeah, I just want to update the council upon what occurred over at the Heritage Place with the elevator being out 70 plus residents, elderly residents, and I'm going to go back through that.
 We have some good news that the elevators are currently being fixed like right now. They work on this weekend. They test them out tomorrow. The other additional conversation I want to have with the council and also with the mayor, I will be speaking with them this week, is that there has to be some sort of like
 I can't say sweep, but there has to be a discussion on how our code enforcement and also building department has to go out to these places to make sure everything's on the up and up. You wouldn't you wouldn't understand the amount of problems that was at the heritage. It just wasn't the elevator.
 It was the windows, just the roof falling through. It's so the hot water doesn't work. These are where our seniors are living and many of our low economic folks are living. This is how you help produce more crime in the city.
 And so they deserve more than that. If the bills are being paid, if things are being done in a proper and decent order, then they should receive the services that they are paying for. Clearly, this is not what has occurred and what is happening. That's why a press conference happened. And that's why these other things are happening.
 LaSalle Park Homes has the same situation. I talked with a member of their board today about that. There is issues that another project home facility is. I can go on for days about it. We have to do a better job at enforcement. Obviously we don't do enforcing. The mayor's office does, but we have to,
 at least say something or support a better day for these residents that live in our city. It can't continue to happen. Someone passed away on the fourth floor of that building last week. A lot of them have been foregoing going to their doctor's appointments because they are in fear of the steps. And so the elevator is not working. So they just stay in their apartment. It's not a good thing. It's not a good look. Is there anyone else that has any new business to bring?
 Councilman Lee, I just want to say thank you to the administration and to the council members that participated when we had the opportunity to host the ambassador to Kenya, the ambassador to the US from the Republic of Kenya. It was a great, great, great time of cultural exchange.
 economic ideals and hopefully they'll be coming back again so uh thank you to uh those who participated in it and uh and we did really show them south bend love and they were very appreciative okay thank you um i do have one thing um prairie apartments is having a back to school giveaway it's going to be on thursday august the 11th it's going to be from five to six
 They are going to have some refreshments, and they're asking that the residents there, and there are children out there. Councilwoman White and I was actually out there a couple weeks ago for a community event they had. So if anybody would like to come and offer any help, please do. Or if you would like to offer any pencils, spiral notebooks, folders, that type of thing, they'll be loading the backpacks for the kids out there.
 So any other new business? If not, we'll go to, did you have a new business? No, I'm fine. Okay, so we'll go to the privilege of the floor.
 And I'd like to read the statement about this privilege of the floor. Disrespectful, rude speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and their residential address
 Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes.
 Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request to the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review. Topics assigned shall be responded to at the next council meeting. So at this time is there anyone here that wish to speak on the privilege of the floor? I see no one in the chamber.
 Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the chat? I do not see anyone in the chat expressing interest to speak on privilege of the floor. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Then at this time, I'd say we stand in adjournment. Thank you. Thank you.