I was trying to get to Davis, the one that said he called. He couldn't get in contact with me. Yes, that's right. So I told him. So I had to go down. I'm going to call him. Hey, please. I'm going to call this. Don't change it. I'll call him. What do you think? One of the four people. Nothing. I'm here. I'm going to call him. I'm going to call him. I'm going to call him. I'm going to call him. I'm going to call him.
 you can look up on here believe
 All Monday, July 24th, Common Council meeting to order. Dr. Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. To ensure decent audio quality for everyone during our meeting, all virtual attendees will be muted by default when not speaking. If you wish to speak during the meeting regarding specific agenda items,
 During public input, please submit your request in the chat with your full name and address. Instructions are also available in the chat for your reference. During the public input session,
 Each speaker will be given a maximum of five minutes to address the council. For citizens who would like to speak during the privilege of the floor, please enter your name and your address into the chat. And when that time comes, the council president will call on you and grant you three minutes to speak. Remember to unmute yourself before making your comments. Your participation and feedback are valuable to us and we look forward to hearing your comments. Thank you. Thank you.
 First of all, I would like to acknowledge Minister Ken Hardy for the invocation. Let us bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly God, our Father, we thank you, Lord, for this gathering. We ask that your spirit fill this room with a mind and conscience of you, of respect and knowing how to serve. As one of your warriors, Mother Teresa said, that if you pray, you will have faith. And if you have faith, you will love. And if you love, you will serve.
 And if you serve, you will have peace. We thank you, Lord, for all that you've done and all that you will do and all that you're doing. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. May we rise for the pleasure of allegiance. Thank you. At this time, I want to pause and acknowledge Mr. John Pinter for bringing
 And welcoming the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders Initiative. It is about 700 within 35 universities across the country. They're here for a six week fellowship learning and exchanging with African American counterparts. So we want to say welcome and thank you for joining us on this evening. Thank you, Mr. Pinter, for being an escort tonight. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. Yes. Please feed them. Amen. I would like to also announce that if you are here for there are five bills that have been tabled tonight. Bill 2348, Bill 4723, Bill 4323, Bill 2723.
 And Bill 4423. So if you're here for those bills, those bills have been tabled. So we don't want you to stick around waiting for those bills to be called. And that's what you're here for. So just wanted to acknowledge that in case you had to leave also. But that being said, Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. He's absent. Council Member Wax. Present.
 Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Eighth President. Thank you. At this time, we'll go into special business. We are asking for Ms. Stephanie Murphy, the Executive Director of St. Joe County Public Library, to come up. Thank you so much for coming. And if you could, please state your name and address for the record.
 Thank you so much. I'm Stephanie Murphy. I'm the Executive Director at St. Joe County Public Library through 304 South Main Street. And I believe there's a slideshow. They're getting on the ball. Thank you so much. So thank you for allowing me a few minutes of your time. I know you understand the importance of the library as an anchor institution in downtown South Bend and that a high quality public library contributes to placemaking that attracts families and business to the region.
 So I wanted to share some of the great things we've been up to in the last year. So when people think of the library, they first of all think about our collections. So that's where I wanted to start. So in 2022, we had 90,000 cardholders. That's more than half of our library district, which serves a population of 170,000 people. We circulated 1.4 million books, movies, and music, physical items,
 and then an additional half a million digital items, so e-books, digital audio books, streaming film. And we are on track to meet and exceed those numbers in the next year. My favorite project from the last year, you can see it right here, we call it SB Ready. So we started last fall by inviting all the kindergarten teachers in South Bend Community Schools and the Empowerment Zone to the library for an information session.
 We then had our staff visit their classrooms, and then we got every one of the kindergartners their very own library card, and we invited them to come down to the library where they could check out a book. So as you can imagine, the days where they visited were very, very busy, but they were some of the best days at the library. It was so much fun to go down there and see them. We had 800 students come through, most of them in February. So it was a busy month.
 We'll continue that project this fall. We'll bring those kids back as first graders to visit the library. And then we'll get all the next slate of kindergartners their own kindergarten card to their library card. One of the most exciting things about that is some of those kids have come back with their grownups to get their grownup library cards. In January of 2022, we opened the Community Learning Center. This has been a great thing in our community. In 2022, we hosted more than 620 different groups.
 This year already, 750 groups. That's 18,000 people this year. And 250 of those groups were not-for-profits, and we don't charge them to use our space at all. We continue to offer high-quality events, both large and small. Our Summer Reading Club, you can see the picture on the left, that's from last year's kickoff party. We had 3,000 people participate last year in Summer Reading Club.
 This year, the latest number I heard was 5,150. So that's pretty exciting. That's people of all ages reading this summer. And then we have our small events. River Park has a bad cinema club. So they get about 15 to 20 people every month that come in and talk about just the worst films ever made. And they make connections over that.
 And then the picture on the right, we had a small business series, and this is a group of women entrepreneurs. And so people could come and listen to their stories, learn about small business finance over the course of the series and lots of other things. Those get about 30 to 40 people at those events.
 We've also worked really hard on our sustainability efforts. So this is our new electric, all electric vehicle. So this does our daily round between branches. That's about 50 miles a day that we are no longer using a gas engine. So we think that's pretty cool. And then thanks to the city of South Bend, if you, the next one, yep. You can see our solar panels on our top branch. This was with the easy grant from the, with the city.
 And we started that project last year. The panels were just installed and are up and running. We're excited to see our first utility bill after having them working. And we're gonna do a ribbon cutting on August 23rd if you wanna come out to the branch for that. So what's next for us? We've spent the last five to seven years really looking at our downtown campus and that has paid off in dividends.
 Over the next six months, we're going to work on visioning for our branches. We have nine branches that collectively get about 500,000 visitors a year. Most of them haven't been touched in 15 plus years. So that means aging mechanicals, stained carpet, worn furniture. And then the community has just changed over the last 15 years. So we'll be looking at all of those things over the next six months.
 And we'll be having some community conversations to see what our neighbors might want for their local branch. If you'd like a tour of the branch that is in your district, I'm happy to meet with you and take you on a tour and show you what we're doing in your neighborhood. And if you have anything going on in your district that you think we should be aware of as we do this planning process, feel free to reach out to me. My card is on the annual report that you've been given.
 And thank you so much. I'm happy to answer any questions if you have them. Thank you so much. I'll turn to my colleagues to see if you have any questions or comments. Things are happening, and I can't wait to see what you're going to do with the various branches that we have. Thank you so much. Thank you. Councilor Hammond. And I would like to add that you seem to have embraced the things that the city has identified as priorities, such as sustainability, sustainability.
 And I also heard that you passed a new, I don't know if you call them law or rules or whatever, you call them in the library realm,
 Where in terms of your care of the homeless that use the libraries for day centers, if you will. Yes. Thank you so much. It is a priority for us that everyone walking through the doors gets treated with dignity and respect. And that's that's really very important to me personally and to the library as an organization. I applaud you for that. And it's just wonderful. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you for the update.
 Next, we have a special resolution. Clerk Jones, could you please give Resolution 2346 a reading? Thank you, Dean McCabe, LLC, and Laquita Hughes for the essential work they perform in child care service. Thank you so much, Counselor Davis. Thank you.
 Excuse me. Thank you president McBride and members of the council members in the audience south bend community I stand before you with a special resolution for milestones Steam Steam Academy LLC. I'm asking those who are here for this particular Presentation to join me here at the podium, please Thank you
 Whereas on July 13, 2023, the importance of quality child care services was emphasized by the Federal Office of Child Care and the Administration for Children and Family in announcing a new proposed rule to help more families access the child care they need and to better support child care providers in the essential work that they do for communities across the country. And whereas among...
 Proposed changes are policies to lower costs for families, increase the family's care options, strengthen payment practices, and encourage easier and faster enrollment. And whereas the importance of quality child care is even more apparent to those participating in the day-to-day child care activities such as Laquita Hughes, the founder of Milestones STEAM Academy LLC. And whereas the
 Community Action for Education, known simply as Milestone STEAM Academy, provides childcare while creating a safe place for caregivers of the community to receive wraparound services, as well as credit repair services to ensure all families have access to a high-quality education. Whereas Milestone STEAM Academy LLC has offered childcare and education services to the City of South Bend's youth,
 and underserved communities. And whereas Milestone STEAM Academy has taken on issues such as homicide, loss of a parent, loss of a student, classmate, disproportionately in special education, school to prison pipeline, and due process for children, MSA has been successful in ending the practice of non-participation of parents in early learning and increasing community representation on community engagement.
 Their mission provides your child with the best early childhood education experience possible. Whereas in doing so, Milestone STEAM Academy LLC has demonstrated resilience in the face of gun violence. And whereas Laquita Hughes, the founder of Milestone STEAM Academy LLC, has advocated for students with individual education plans, IEPs, for years. And whereas
 Milestone Milestone Steam Academy LLC is one of the few women and black on educational sites in the city of South Bend. Whereas Liquida Hughes has been recognized for her commitment to making the city of South Bend a more inclusive and equitable. So I've been a more inclusive, inclusive and equitable. I'm sorry. Now, therefore, let it be publicly and proudly resolved as follows. Section one.
 Second District Councilmember Henry Davis Jr. proudly recognizes the essential education services provided by Laquita Hughes and Milestone STEAM Academy LLC. Section 2, those services provided by...
 excuse me those services provide a foundation of a lifetime of opportunity for those children who participate section three the city of south bend will be a better place to live as these children grow and participate in various activities approve this day the 24th day of july 2023 thank you council thank you miss hughes
 Please state your name and address for the record. Anything you would like to add? Thank you. Laquita Hughes, 1422 Marine Street, South Bend, Indiana. We're 6613. I would just like to say thank you to the council. It is an honor. I love what I do. I've been working with youth and families for over 20 plus years for mental health, to education, to case management.
 And I love what I do. Thank you for just giving me the opportunity to receive this proclamation. And as I continue to work with youth and family and the community as well as yourselves. Thank you. Thank you. Someone would like to speak. Sure. Come on up. Please state your name and address for the record. Pick me. Pick me. My name is Cindy Cohen. My address is one nine zero zero nine Layton Street, South Bend, Indiana.
 I just have a few words. I wrote them down because I talk a lot. So thank you for the opportunity to speak to the South Bend Common Council regarding Laquita Hughes' contribution to our community over the years. What an absolute joy it has been to get to know Laquita Hughes since 2019. From the very beginning, she stood out as a remarkable woman with a passion for entrepreneurship. It is an incredible honor to witness her journey and celebrate her successes.
 When the Women Entrepreneurs of Michiana chose Laquita as a featured speaker at the Women's Entrepreneur Summit Roundtables for Success, it was evident right from the beginning she had something special to offer. In 2020, she fearlessly took on the challenge of C2 Your Health Women's Initiative and embarked on the Women Entrepreneur Excellence Course and Certification Program. These experiences shaped her into a resilient and sustainable business,
 leader, setting an example for the women in our community. Even when faced with the hardships brought on by COVID-19 pandemic, Laquita demonstrated her unwavering strength as she navigated Milestone STEAM Academy through the storm and emerged out even stronger than before. Her determination and growth as a business owner were further showcased when she successfully completed the South Bend Entrepreneurship and Diversity Program.
 But her impact didn't stop there. Laquita's heart for the community shined through with the nonprofits that she founded, Testimony NT, A Lifetime for Families in Need, and Angels for Integrity, Youth and Family Services focused on providing hope, healing, and education for adults.
 Notably, amidst all these endeavors, she never stopped bettering herself as a daycare provider, dedicating countless hours to early childhood education. As if her achievements weren't impressive enough, in 2023, Laquita fearlessly pursued her passion in public service by running for both South Bend School Board and the South Bend Common Council at large position.
 I can't help but feel how overwhelming sense of pride in Laquita and everything she has accomplished in our community. We're excited to celebrate Laquita and all the incredible things she has achieved. And here's to the future of even more success, joy and transformation as we continue to follow her lead, making our community a better place for everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for your comments.
 Thank you, Ms. Hughes, for your dedication to our community. Thank you, Mr. Davis, for bringing such a special resolution to the council. Thank you. Is there any other council? Councilor Hammond? Thank you for bringing the resolution and congratulations, Laquita. One thing I would like to say to the council as well as all the folks in the chambers here is
 The small, single-owned child care providers in our city are essential businesses for families and for the children themselves. And I think it's important that we all continue to support them in whatever way we possibly can. It's not just the large facilities that matter to families. It is these families.
 very ingrained in the neighborhood type of child care services that these families rely on. And we thank you for that. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please give Resolution 2347 a reading?
 2347, a special resolution awarded by South Bend Common Council member Henry Davis Jr., acknowledging July 13th, 2023 as Black Lives Matter Day. Absolutely. There are a couple more than a couple of folks that are here, national and as well as local Black Lives Matter organization. If you are here or you do hear me, you are more than welcome to join me at the podium.
 Awesome, and I'll let this young lady introduce herself later on. You'll be happy to see who she is. Whereas the abuse of black people did not end with the abolishment of slavery with the ratification of the 13th Amendment in 1965, nor did anti-black racism end with ratification of the 14th Amendment and 15th Amendment or the signing of the 1964 and 1965 Civil Rights Act.
 160 years after the abolished abolition of slavery, it badges and incidents remain embedded in the political, legal, health, financial, education, cultural, environmental, social, economic systems of the United States of America. Moreover, the legacies of slavery...
 segregation, and state surveillance continue to impact the lives of Black people in every measurable category of Black people's lives daily. Economically, the latest rate of poverty for Black Americans is at 19.5 percent, second to Indigenous communities at 23 percent. In safety, Black Americans continue to experience the highest rates of threats and use of force in
 and their encounters with the police when compared across race or ethnicity, 3.3% in 2015, 3.8% in 2018, 4.3% in 2020. Additionally, Black people are among the top two racial groups who are most at risk of fatal encounters with police, standing at 7.08%.
 fatal police shootings per million of the population from 2013 to 2023. And whereas the summer of 2013, the acquittal of George Zimmerman,
 After his murder of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed 17-year-old boy ignited the global movement of racial justice. Black Lives Matter became the rallying cry in the fight to end white supremacy, anti-Black systematic racism, and the brutality inflicted on Black people at the hands of the state and local law enforcement. Black Lives Matter has become our own modern civil rights movement.
 And whereas Black Lives Matter is working for a world where black lives are no longer systematically targeted for the demise and where the lives of black, queer, trans folk, disabled folk, undocumented folk, folks with records.
 Women in all black lives along the gender spectrum are affirmed. And whereas the lot black lives matters movement has grown into the largest social justice movement in the U S history, millions of activists, organizers, strategists, and community members across the globe have participated in a black lives matter protest over the last decade. And whereas the,
 The power of Black Lives Matter since its inception in 2013 has resulted in an increase and sustained attention to the language of the movement with terms such as systematic racism, anti-Black racism, and prison abolition movement becoming more part of our common vocabulary. And whereas Black Lives Matter protests
 and activations have meaningfully reduced fatal police homicide, police shootings, not homicides, shootings, approximately 200 fewer people were killed by police from 2014 to 2019. And whereas legislation centering non, uh,
 Punitive approaches to public safety and investment in black communities have been championed, introduced, and passed by elected officials who support the Black Lives Matter movement.
 Matter vision and whereas the winds of black lives matter movement in the last 10 years are markers of progress, not markers of victory. And whereas every black life stolen by state sanction and vigilante violence must be remembered and honored day today and every day. Now, therefore, a letter be proclaimed by the Common Council of the City of South Bay, Indiana, as follows. Section one, Second District Common Council Member Henry Davis, Jr.,
 Acknowledges July 13th, 2023 as Black Lives Matters Day. Section 2, 2nd District Common Council Member Henry Davis Jr. recognizes Black Lives Matters Movement for racial justice and equity. Section 3, 2nd District Common Council Member Henry Davis Jr. denounces and condemns racial inequality and all of its manifestations. Approved this day, approved this 24th day of July 2023.
 Thank you so much. Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you. Angela Angel, 16 Francis Street, Annapolis, Maryland, 21404. And any other comments that you would like to make? Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Davis, esteemed council members. We end nearly every Black Lives Matter gathering with this chant. Thank you.
 It is our duty to fight for freedom. It is our duty to win. We must love each other and support one another. We have nothing to lose but our chains. And that's a call and response. I won't make y'all call and response. As a daughter of South Bend, Indiana, growing up on the East Side on White Oak Drive, it is an honor to be here to receive this,
 Cite this proclamation in my home city. Black Lives Matter started 10 years ago. It didn't. Well, at least that's when the hashtag was first done. July 10th to 2013, in response to a post done by one of our founders, founders, Alicia Garza,
 Patrice Colors left her final remark. It said, hashtag Black Lives Matter. And we say that time and time again. And it has now become a rally cry. It has now become a movement. It has now become a social justice movement that is not just the largest in the U.S., it's actually the largest ever in the history of the world. And it is something that we will continue to say as we fight
 for liberation for Black people in America and worldwide. This proclamation is an acknowledgement of the tears, the sweat, the blood that has been shed here
 in this country and abroad. And so taking this moment to acknowledge it, to acknowledge what the fight that is still being carried on, especially in my home city, some of you may have known my father, Nathaniel Angel, who was one of the first Black DJs here on WNDU, who was one of the first Black executives at First Source Bank.
 I remember the barriers that he broke. I remember growing up first going to St. Adalbert's and then St. Joseph's grade school and St. Joseph's high school and being sometimes the only black face in rooms. But my father taught me to hold my head high. And I was lucky to be raised in a community where I was constantly embraced and affirmed. But I've learned since that there are many people, especially black folks in this country that don't have that experience.
 So we rally and we say Black Lives Matter because we want everyone to know that they do matter. We will continue this fight. And as we always say, we have a duty to fight for freedom. We have a duty to win. We must love each other and support one another. We have nothing to lose but our chains. Thank you. Thank you so much. Please state your name and address for the record.
 yes my name is j bryant and my address is 215 north scott street here in south bend and i would like to speak on behalf of this resolution because as a member of one of the founding members of the black lives matter chapter here in south bend and having been able to participate as advances were made not only in terms of the the work of the movement itself but also in terms of education and
 and how that movement is involved with things like housing and healthcare and a broad spectrum of needs that people have, especially those folks whose needs have not been met here in our community, here in our nation, and how important it is to recognize that, yes, indeed, the BLM movement is by far the largest social justice movement that's happened in the history of the world.
 It is not an overstatement to say that it has become the new civil rights movement. As a scholar of social movements myself, I can say confidently that it is so important to recognize the advances that have been made, not only overall, but also here in our own community and to recognize that through a resolution like this so that we can talk about how this future could look based on the progress that we've made so far. Thank you. Thank you.
 Sir, please state your name and address for the record. Paul Mishler, 421 Manitou Place, South Bend, Indiana. I'm coming here to speak in favor of the resolution as somebody who, while I may not look like it, has been working with Black Lives Matter for a number of years. And one of the things I, you know, thought that some of you might be considering is that this being a movement is very contentious. And I've been in this chamber and in the streets where people were very angry at each other.
 That's the way social movements work. And so some of you may not feel particularly friendly toward Black Lives Matter, South Bend, or disagree with what BLM has been about. I would urge that this be supported fully with the recognition that the expansion of democracy, the expansion of goodwill, the expansion of healing for our community requires us to take a breath when facing these kinds of disagreements.
 Because we don't exist as a healthy community unless we recognize that organizations such as Black Lives Matter South Bend are absolutely necessary for all of us, whether we like what they do at any particular point or not like what they do at any particular point. So on that basis, I would urge the full support of the council for this resolution. We are very fortunate in South Bend.
 The people who made up that collective, including Dr. Bryant, who just spoke, and others, were phenomenal individuals. They were caring about the community. Did they get angry at the racism, about the continued levels of violence directed at African-American people? Absolutely. Were they angry about the struggles, about implementing policy? Of course.
 made by them and their supporters of all backgrounds warrant this at this time. Thank you. Thank you so much. Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Dr. Janet Evelyn, owner of Jet Evelyn Consulting LLC, 6448 Armstrong Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46614. I rise...
 to share how very proud and humbled I am for this, the work that this, one of my adopted daughters has done. You might not know her work. She's known nationally across America for her work, not only in this field, but in other fields as well.
 So, like I said, congratulations. And she shows as a daughter of South Bend, you never give up on where you come from. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you again, Mr. Davis.
 We didn't say it earlier, but I thought she was going to say it and she didn't say it. Angela is a former elected official out of the state of Maryland. She's a state delegate, which would be equivalent to a state rep here in the state of Indiana. And I think and a former candidate for Congress as well in Maryland area. So there's something for us to be really proud of that we have people that leave this area to actually go and produce products.
 Great things in different areas and other areas of the country, especially the eastern seaboard, which is really, really tough. So my hat is off to her in her work that she's doing. I think it's phenomenal. Thank you again. OK. Yes, thank you. I will go over the bills that were tabled again. If you're here for twenty three, forty eight, forty seven, twenty three, forty three, twenty three, twenty seven, twenty three or forty four, twenty three. Those bills have been tabled.
 At this time, I will entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. There's a motion. Second. All in favor? Okay. Any opposition? The motion carries. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and a public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting in public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given.
 In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 24-23 a second reading?
 24-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 1127, 1131, and 1135 West Western Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon. It comes to us this evening with no recommendation. Right. The petitioner is here and present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us.
 Good evening Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator for the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of this building. The property in question contains the property addresses of 1127, 1131, and 1135 Western Avenue. They're highlighted here on the screen. Those are all under common ownership and development. The property owner is seeking a special exception to allow for automotive repair in the neighborhood center district.
 The property is currently being used as auto repair was brought to our attention in the summer of last year. We've been working with the property owner since that time to bring the property into compliance. A key part of doing that is legalizing the use, which is what the special exception is looking to do this evening.
 The property, this was in 2019. There has been some improvement in the outdoor storage, but the property is still being used for auto repair and with some outdoor storage as we're going through this process as they have been working through this with us.
 This has been reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals and comes to you with a favorable recommendation subject to a written commitment for no outdoor storage. The use, if all contained within the building, could be appropriate within the district in which it's located, especially once the site is brought up into conformance as required by the adoption of a special exception. I'd be happy to answer your questions, and the petitioner is here as well. Petitioner, would you like to say anything? Okay.
 all right councilwoman lori hammond thank you angela there was some discussion about drainage and the cost is that part of the um the code for this type of business or the lot i just wonder if you could give a little more information on that
 Sure. I think what would trigger that would be the requirement that all vehicles be parked on a hard surface or an improved surface. Prior to the current status, there was a paved parking area towards the rear of the property. They could continue to park on that paved parking area as they were being serviced or whatever. The only time that we would require drainage is if they had a change of 2,500 square foot or more of impervious surface.
 So if they were to pave this lot, for instance, to make the whole thing a paved parking lot, that may trigger the requirement for drainage. But it's a 2,500 square foot threshold generally. So as it stands right now, you would not have to make an investment into drainage?
 Correct, especially with the written commitment for no outdoor storage, because if there's no outdoor storage, it doesn't require it to be on a hard surface. And therefore, it would just be the limited amount of parking they would have for the site. OK, thank you. Anybody else? Councilwoman Thomas-Morgan. Thank you, Chair. I was wondering if you could clarify me. So clarify a couple items for me.
 if the property is granted special exception the entire site needs to be brought into conformance with the ordinance is that correct correct there's a list there that's including but not limited to excess fencing transparency surfacing of the lot and landscaping i think my question to the um to the petitioner is if you um
 If granting this, this is what is expected. And so are you ready to bring this entire site into conformance? I mean, as I mentioned earlier, this site's been there forever. I don't know why are we changing or why are we even talking about it, why are we even bringing it up? This site's been there for 20 years.
 same business been running there for 20 years yes there is no licensing it was a family business owned to be honest with you I'm not ready to put that money in it because it doesn't generate the income that's gonna bring back the investments yes President McBride
 and I'm sorry my name was David Farhan I am the owner of Fargo LLC and please give us your address P.O Box 11664 South Bend Indiana 46634 I guess I'm trying to understand what monetary value that the petitioner is talking about because if I'm hearing correctly if there's no drainage that's needed
 And I think I heard earlier about a possible grant. I'm not understanding what commitments or monetary value the petitioner have to be out of.
 So if the petitioner were to, after approval by the council, if the petitioner were to use it for the auto sales because of the grant of a special exception, which is considered new development under the zoning ordinance, they would be required to bring the building up to the minimum transparency requirement. Again, this is a pedestrian-oriented district, so we would be looking at additional windows probably into the building. There may be some streetscape trees required. We would be looking at...
 removing the screening from the fence so that it wasn't in violation of the ordinance. So that's a typical process that goes along with the granting of a special exception. The thought is that if there's the new development that triggers a special exception, granted it may have been used illegally for quite some time, that that would require the site to be developed in accordance with the ordinance. Follow-up question. What is the current use and what is the desired use?
 The current use is being used for auto repair. That is not the legal use of the property, but that is also the desired use of the property. Okay. Thank you. And one of the things I would like to say is that, you know, the city is working with you. It could be a totally different situation.
 And it looks like the city is trying to help you get in compliance so that you can be able to have your business there and be able to do what you need to do. And they're offering the grant assistance so that the vibrant spaces grant to assist you. So I think that's, you know, if I was you, I would I would look at this as, OK, in order to run my business the right way, the city is giving you the tools to be able to help you. So.
 the grants we're talking about is I believe it's up to 25 000. uh so so I spent 25 city gifts 25. to bring the side up to what Angela talking about I spoke with few companies and the amounts that they're asking is over a hundred and ninety thousand dollars in to bring the side
 up to the to the standards that she's asking for that's new curbs move the fence windows doors uh you know the parking lot drainage uh well she actually if you if you listen to what she's saying is if if you are able to not have
 outdoor storage, correct, then he wouldn't need a parking lot. He wouldn't need the drainage. So this building is two-door garage, so you can only have two cars inside the building. Where is the other vehicles going to go?
 There's a legal parking spot or legal hard surface parking towards the rear of the lot. And the grant is up to $50,000, 50% match. So for $90,000 of improvements, the city would cover $45,000 of the applicable improvements. And so we got to get it. We got to make this exception in order for them to be able to get into the process of getting things done.
 If he would like to continue to use the property for auto sale or auto repair, this process has to be done. The grant's available, whether or not it's this use or another use. So the grant has to do with the improvement of the space that's visible from the public right-of-way, not necessarily related to the use. So the grant's available either way, no matter what the use is. Yes. Thank you, Chair. I just want to know, what exactly does a major vehicle...
 service mean? So major vehicle service can include anything from engine repair to body work to fender repair. So this is what we see usually for more things. It's basically anything that goes beyond traditional brakes and tires. So brakes and tires and like auto detailing usually follow into the minor auto service and the major auto service is the major body work.
 so one of the questions that was asked is are are you willing to make that investment in this property i mean like i said that's the only choice i had i guess okay or should just take my tenants out and close doors that's the only option i had councilman wex
 thank you i'm trying to understand something and i think you may explain it but i'm not sure if i just don't like what i'm hearing or not understanding um so one issue is the requirement of a special exception for him to do that which would be conditional on not having the outdoor storage right correct and so i see some hesitation but is that something if that alone is that something you could agree to
 Yes. Okay. So, but what I'm hearing is a second step is that if we grant this special exception, then the city is going to require him to bring the building up to new standards, which didn't apply when the building was created. But if he would do something else in the building, he could keep the building as it is. Is that accurate? Yeah.
 That is accurate. Is that discretionary? It's not discretionary. It's covered under the zoning ordinance in our chapter. So whenever you seek a rezoning or a special exception, if there's an existing building on the site, everything for the site except for the location of the building has to be brought into conformance because it's considered new development. Maybe that's something we need to look into that doesn't make any sense to me that someone trying to make a business work. Okay.
 you know by coming to the city and discussing how it can make work and the city will approve it and the council will approve it and now is going to get hit with 200 000 of new expenses it's one thing to say that there's some grants that we could do um to assist with but at the same time you know it's essentially making a lot of property it really limits the use and it just doesn't make sense to me but if you're saying it's not discretionary that's where we are today but that's something i'd like to take a look at going forward
 So, and this property is not grandfathered because it's always been there. It's always been...
 been that kind of a business? It's never been legally established as auto repair. Prior to 2020, it was zoned MU mixed use. Auto repair was not allowed under that use either. So at the time the petitioner bought the property, it was not allowed to be used for auto repair. And so any use of that's illegal. And whenever you buy a property like that, that's part of the disclosures, correct? It's generally part of the due diligence when you buy a property is to find out how you
 all right well we just seen pictures from 2014 that shows the facility being used what what what it's being used today oh that's 2013. and that's 2015. that's this is 2013. 2013. okay so that's right when i purchased it so they removed everything and we we got in and we moved our business back in so that she's right the picture and right here is
 matter of fact that boat belongs to the previous owner and he picked it up like a few months after so that's when they actually sold us the building and we got in since then it's been used the same views yeah well at this time here oh okay I um I agree with Eli um that was much as what I was saying earlier when during committee
 I would really hate that we would add a burden to a business owner, anyone that's trying to invest into this community. Obviously, this is not the usual where someone walks in, asks for a tax abatement, and they are granted it or whatever that we're offering because they don't have any issues whatsoever.
 This is a particular issue with the business within the neighborhood on a corridor that deserves our help and not necessarily our nose or, you know, kind of like get it together or else type of scenario. My question and same question I asked earlier is how can we help? I know that the grant.
 That is being talked about is a grant. You have to fill out an application. But after talking to the petitioner in the hallway, he let me know that he applied for the grant a few times before today and has never received it. Now, I don't know, but that's what I was told for this property. Yes, for different properties.
 Well, he still didn't receive it. I know it didn't work, so I'm not going to waste my time and do it again. Right. And so that's what I'm getting at. And I want you to be successful. This is within the district, too. That's where I represent. The entire block is like from the Viaduct all the way up to the church. It's really empty. And the last thing I would like to see is another empty building, especially on that quarter or anywhere in the city of South Bend.
 I'm stuck right here. I'm not going to, I don't want to vote yes or no. I want to help President McBride. The other, I see that there's a conflict in about the last application. Was it for noncompliance or do you recall? From my understanding, it was items that didn't qualify. It was either interior work or it might have been a roof at the time. Thank you. Well, if no one else has any other questions, we're going to go to the public hearing. Clerk. Yes, sir.
 despite all this confusion and i as uh my colleague expressed the difficult situation you're in would you like us to grant this would you like us to pass this i mean i i understand it creates some you know it helps in some way and it hurts in others what would you like us to do this this place should been staying the way it is grandfather's been there forever i mean and and i i understand that unfortunately the law the way it is and i completely commiserate with you as i
 we don't have that option today. The eight people, seven people, eight people here, we have the choice of passing this or not passing this. Would you like us to pass this or not? I know it makes, I know it doesn't help you in the way that you're hoping for, but that's our choice today. So I just want to know what you want. I guess pass it. That's the only route I have. And I understand that that doesn't solve your problems. Right.
 and again again but this is a pathway to get you to a place of being in compliant to be able to have your business running legit and that's what we that's what you want and and also but it's got to be in compliant in order to be able to be rented out so if he doesn't if it's not in compliance he wouldn't be able to rent it out it would be closed building i mean that's
 Okay. All right. Is there any, let's go to the public portion. Uh, Claire Jones, is there anyone in the online or in the chambers that would like to speak in favor? There's no one person interested to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition in chambers or online? There's no one that would like to speak in opposition as well. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on the bill is now closed. Uh,
 I would entertain a motion regarding bill 24 dash 23. I move that we. No, sorry. We can do comments. We were about to be past it, but if you'd like to make a comment. Yeah. I mean, this is a difficult situation. It just is. I mean, I are, we're trying to give you a pathway, but it requires, it requires you to conform to the standards and,
 But yet I'm not hearing that you want to or will. So I and that doesn't seem fair to others. Property owners who have purchased property, who have done their proper due diligence to understand the use of the property.
 And so why would we, why would I grant an exception to you and not to others that may come? I think it's a slippery slope. I understand that there are challenges here that others may want to address in the code, but I'm not hearing an equivalent. I want to move forward with this and I will do what it takes to comply. So I'm sorry, but I can't support that.
 right now i will entertain a motion clarity would that include the written commitments with the written commitments second all right there's been a motion and a second clerk jones please call the role hi i'm sorry council member wax hi council member white hey he said nay thank you council member tomas morgan nay council member hammond hi
 Vice President Neskowski. Nay. President McBride. If I'm understanding him correctly, I thought he wanted us to vote for it. So he asked us to vote. Yes. Aye. Okay. We have four ayes and four nays. You know, Chair, really quick, and Eli just asked me a really great question. And so. I'm sorry. Okay.
 What? Okay. What happens and what occurs, especially in areas that have been depreciated and less investment? We have people who invest, but those same people are usually from that same area who do not have the dollar or the capital to reinvest in those areas. So when they buy property such as this one, I can probably give you 100 more.
 And those properties are not up to standard. City comes in. I'm not saying they're not supposed to. Department comes in and says, hey, X, Y, and Z is not up to snuff. We need you new property owner to do X, Y, and Z. X, Y, and Z costs a significant amount of money. There is no resources. There is no ability to invest.
 get the amount of monies that are needed in order to update said facility. So what you end up having is another closed or vacant building in the area that deserves investment that's dying for investment.
 We have to figure out, and I'm only here for another, what, five, four, five months, but it has to be figured out at some point how to make these situations more manageable for said investor. I don't know what the gentleman has in his pocket or his bank account. I voted against it because of that very reason I just explained, not because I don't think that he's a good person or I think he's a bad person. I voted against it because of the principle that...
 shows itself all the time when it comes to areas that are depreciated within this city and how investors, local investors, almost felt like they're being treated wrongly by the law. And I don't think the law is wrong, but we have these special cases that keep coming up or don't come up because people are worried about what just occurred with the gentleman that we just voted for or voted against.
 Something has to be done in order to not only attract the investment, but to retain the investment and to help the investment grow in these areas. And I have an entire hell of downtown South Bend is almost like that at this point. There is no way possible you can grow a city or a side of town without having the proper safeguards and tools in place so that it can happen. If the tools are not available, it doesn't happen.
 So, Councilman Davis, you voted not for it to go to the favorable recommendation? Yes, for the reasons why I just stated, sir. So this puts that same person in jeopardy of shutting down the business and closing it? Your vote, yes, does put him in there. My vote, no, does not put him there.
 Well, then that makes it even worse. Councilman Lee. Because what? Okay. It's a tie and I have to vote on that. No, a tie goes to the president. But after a tie, I. Is that correct, Bob? Pardon me? The president only breaks a tie if there's a tie before her vote. Her vote created the tie. Okay.
 what does the time mean then time means that the motion does not pass we need a second motion can i offer something that may help with the dilemma that oh that'd be great thank you councilman wax and councilman davis are dealing with the council before you this uh the since
 as long as I've been around, let's see, since 2013, every special exception that's come forward that the council has passed, those properties have owners have taken on and been willing to make those investments and have made those investments. So this is the first time in my 10 years that I've had somebody come forward for a special exception who isn't willing to make the necessary investments in their property in order to use the property the way they would like to do it.
 So I feel like between the and we offer more now than we ever have with the Vibrant Places grant or revolving loan funds. We have more assistance for property owners, especially along these corridors than we have in a decade. So our recommendation and the Board of Zoning Appeals recommendation for a favorable recommendation subject to the written commitment is an effort to move this forward and help the property owner to be able to utilize the building in an effective way.
 Exactly. And that's what I thought. No, that's not it. And you keep doing that. I'm saying there needs to be more. There needs to be a baseline. We have to change legislation in order to get where I'm talking about. I'm not talking about this one particular situation. Okay. That is something we can take back to the plan commission staff or if you'd like to initiate a text amendment, the council is able to initiate one as well.
 Yeah, let's go for it. It's needed. It's already been voted on. It should have been tabled, but now it's died. We can put up another motion. The motion died. Is that correct? So next step. Subject to additional motions such as no recommendation and favorable recommendation for table. I move to send it to the full council with no recommendation. Second. With
 Okay, there's been a motion. Yeah. There's no written commitments that go forward. No. I'm pretty sure. No, it doesn't bring up no recommendations. It's coming with the recommendation. So there's been a motion in the second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Could we get clarification on that? Angela, it doesn't include the special conditions that were...
 i don't know how it happens when it goes out of this committee with uh no recommendation would there be a motion then to either approve or deny it at the full council correct then when that motion would be made that would include the if the motion was made to approve it that's where you would have the appropriate time to say approve subject to written commitments okay all right clark jones please call the world
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Eight ayes. All right. This will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. No recommendation. No recommendation. No recommendation.
 All right, Clerk Jones, please give Bill 4523 a second reading. 4523, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1018 North Francis Street, Councilmanic District No. 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon, and it comes to us this evening with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is there a petition of presence? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator for the City of South Bend, with offices located on the 14th floor of this building.
 The petitioner is seeking to rezone just a portion of 1018 Francis Street as highlighted here in the aqua color on the screen. This portion would then be adjoined with the two properties to the south, which were recently rezoned to NC Neighborhood Center in order to develop a comprehensive development lot for the Notre Dame Law Clinic.
 This additional property was needed to address some setback issues and allow for on-site retention as required by both the zoning ordinance and our engineering standards. It would also allow them to retain the detached accessory structure garage that's on this lot to be used for the law clinic facility.
 The remainder of this lot would remain U-1, Urban Neighborhood 1, which would allow for the development of essentially a single family home, both on this lot and then the lot that they own immediately to the west of the previously rezoned lots. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation subject to a lot line adjustment, which has already been filed and is prepared to be approved once the rezoning passes.
 i'd be happy to answer any questions and the petitioner is here as well our petitioner would you like to have anything to say and state your name and address please for the record wayne richardson from birch franken associates 811 lawrence drive fort wayne indiana 46804 um i would just like to point out that with the lot line adjustment the lot to the north the 1018 francis street
 We have brought that lot into compliance with a maximum lot width for the NNZO, the Northeast Amber Hood Overlay, Arizona Overlay District. The previous lot was too wide or exceeded the width for that overlay district.
 As you can see on this site plan, we're pretty similar to this currently. We are putting underground detention between the proposed law center and the detached garage, which they would like to retain use of. And the lot line adjustment also places a 20-foot wide access easement for lot C to the alley, so that's...
 in the future if that's utilized utilized for a single family home it would still have driveway access to the alley and would not have a driveway um onto francis street compared to answering questions and looking for a federal recommendation council members do you have any questions uh councilwoman laurie hammond thank you
 Mr. Sexton, I apologize for kind of blindsiding you in the committee meeting, but I'm wondering if you gave any thought to the idea of maybe moving that house to a functional property. Tim Sexton, address 405, main building, Notre Dame, Indiana. I appreciate that Councilwoman Hammond, that question from earlier, and I did call, made a few phone calls about that particular residence. It's about 78 years old and it is in dire need of some adjustments and some repairs.
 I was also reminded that currently right now we're building, we donated seven lots, the university donated seven lots on Turnock Street, which is probably less than half a mile from this location. And right as we speak,
 three Habitat for Humanity homes are being built on those seven lots. And we've also partnered with South Bend Heritage to build on the other lots. We're going to be developing homes along Georgiana Street here coming up in the next probably well, first one should break ground here within the next month or so. But over the next two years, those homes will be built. We're also continuing to be the major funder of the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization, and we just established a community land trust here
 here in the Northeast neighborhood to again, address the affordable housing component within the neighborhood. All right. Thank you so much. You got it. I think I met my match on that one. No, I wouldn't say that. All right. If there's any other council members that have any questions, we have really good discussions during the committee meeting. At this time, we'll go to the public portion of Clark Jones. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of bill 45 dash 23?
 There's no one online expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present or online wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 45-23? There is no one expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 45-23 is now closed. Council members, would anybody like to make any statements or I will entertain a motion.
 Make a motion to send Bill 4523 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. There's been a motion in the second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. I just want to make sure the motion also includes subjects to the lot line adjustments to match the zoning distances in the ordinance. Otherwise, I'm an aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right.
 45-23 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 46-23 a second reading. 46-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property, alley between 1301 Elwood Avenue and 1405 Portage Avenue. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, this was heard in public works and property vacation and was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. All right. Is the petitioner he's present and he's online. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. You have to unmute yourself. Mr. Galante, you got to unmute yourself. You got to hit the little. There we go. There you go. OK. All right. Yeah. There you go. Yeah.
 I have been trying to log on to this system for hour and a half. And I mean, a few minutes ago, I was able to. I think there was some glitch there in online logging in. But anyway, good afternoon to everybody. My name is Praveen Gulati, and I am the member of Peak Investment and Asset Management LLC. Our headquarter is in West Lafayette, Indiana.
 The property we own at 1405 Portage Avenue and two lots behind that. Our project cannot be completed without vacating this alley. And we are trying to build two separate buildings, commercial buildings for the neighborhood center there.
 And, you know, all the four departments of city of South Bend has recommended this proposal. The zoning, public works, the police and police.
 you know, the fire marshals. And this is not going to harm anybody living in the property or any commercial. We are extending that policy.
 you know, the alley giving our property a front. And now it is going to be even better that the alley is going to be exit at, you know, Portage Avenue. If you have any question, I'm here to answer all your questions. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner at all?
 If not, we'll go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone online or in the chambers that would like to speak in favor? There's no one virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor. Is there anyone online or in the chambers that would like to speak in opposition?
 There's no one that is expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing for Bill 46-23 is now closed. Councilmembers, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill? If not, I will entertain a motion. I make a motion to send Bill 46-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second. All right, there's been a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. So, Member Wax? I'm sorry.
 Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McGraw. Aye. Bill 46-22 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. I'll move. Second. All right. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. The full council is now back in session. Bill's on third reading. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 2423 a third reading?
 24-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1127, 1131, and 1135 West Western Avenue, Councilman and District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 24-23? No.
 This was brought to the full council with no recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2423. Second. Object to the written. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll please. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Nay. Councilmember Hammonds. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Nay. Councilmember Davis. No, I'm lost on this one. This is the situation with the gentleman I was talking about earlier.
 The motion is what again? For passage. For passage. It's a written commitment. Nay. Council Member Lee. So as I said, aye. Aye. Are you an aye? I think I am. Well, I don't know. I got you down for an aye. Okay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner.
 He's not here. Oh, I'm sorry. I keep doing that. Okay. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes. Five ayes. You got me included, right? Saying aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4523 a third reading? 4523, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1018 North Francis Street, Councilmanic District No. 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Counselor Lee. Is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes, it comes from the Committee of the Whole to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4523. Thank you.
 SECOND. BEEN MOVING. SECOND. CLERK JOANS, THE ROLL, PLEASE. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS MORGAN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. AYE. VICE PRESIDENT NISKOTSKY. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WAX. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. AYE. PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. AYE. AYE. THANK YOU. RESOLUTION 4523 HAS BEEN ADOPTED. CLERK JOANS, WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE BILL 4623 A THIRD READING?
 4623, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, alley between 1301 Elwood Avenue and 1405 Portage Avenue.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation regarding Bill 4623? Yes, it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4623. Move for passage. Second. We move and second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Resolution bill number 4623 has been adopted. Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where Common Council resolutions
 Here's bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the clerk. A report from the committee chair of the standing committee to which the bill is referred to for advisory review and recommendations are given. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name, address, and address.
 Comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during the rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes. Clerk Jones, will you please give resolution 2349 a reading?
 2349, resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1144 Corby Boulevard, South Bend, 46617, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for five corners, LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. Bill 2349 came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. The petitioner here. Good evening. Not the petitioner, but Mark Diemenderfer, Manager of Business Development with offices on the 14th floor of this building. 2349, if you give me a few seconds, I'll bring up my slides.
 could you speak into the microphone please i'm sorry no i apologize perfect okay so uh yes 2349 uh for your consideration is a conforming confirming resolution for a 10-year real property abatement for five corners llc as a quick recap uh five corners is a multi-use development plan for 1144 corby boulevard uh located on the northeast corner of eddie and uh say road 23
 This development is being completed via a partnership with HP Irish Corners LLC, a holiday properties entity, and Five Corners LLC, and will entail two buildings totaling 173,000 square feet with 108 residential apartments and 5,000 square feet of retail space.
 Not included in the abatement, but part of the development is an additional four for sale condos. The total investment is projected to be $31.5 million and will create nine new full-time job opportunities.
 So, the current taxes for the development site is around $13,000, which is estimated to increase to a little under $500,000 post-completion. During the 10-year abatement, there were roughly $4.8 million in estimated new taxes. The abatement would impact around $1.5 million of that amount, resulting in $3.3 million in new taxes paid. After the abatement period ends, projected taxes paid increased to a little under $5.8 million after 15 years and $8.2 million after 20.
 The following slide breaks down the annual impact of the abatement during its active period and shows roughly how the number is calculated. It should cover the high-level details of five corners, and I believe Paul is here of a holiday to answer any questions. Thank you. With that, I'll turn to my colleagues. Do you have any questions at this time for the petitioner?
 If not, I'll go to the public portion. Before you do that, do you mind if I just make one comment? Please. I know it's Mark here tonight and it was Eric previously. I just want to say thank you to them. They've been very helpful through this process. Thank you. I'll turn to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 2349? There is no one expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill.
 Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 2349? There's no one here online wishing to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. Counsel, comments? Counselor Wax?
 council member warner takes opportunity to thank people who are making investments in his district unfortunately he's not able to be here tonight so i'll do that on his behalf and thank you and all everybody involved for your investment and thank you for the city staff who worked over a long period of time to get us here thank you thank you council rachel thomas martin
 I, too, just want to say, half of myself, I know Council Member Warner shares similar sentiments, but, you know, as far as I can, I know, I recall in the past meeting that it was said that these lots have been vacant for over 10 years. Yes.
 And I just my memory might be short, but it just seems like longer that these lots have been vacant. And so I appreciate very much the investment that you and other investors are making to activate this huge plot of land that has been vacant in this part of the city. And look forward to the over 100 housing units that will come online because of it. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councillor Lee. Just wanted to say thank you for the engagement with the residents and getting it right and making changes and then engaging the council members to get our thoughts so we clearly understood the process. It helped with understanding how this all works out. So thank you. Thank you.
 We were a figure out how we could enforce the memory. Troy brought it up and I asked him to explain, but he was unwilling to explain about the Airbnb deal when he said neighbors or residents in the area were very concerned about the likelihood of these apartments or panels becoming Airbnb. And I was wondering, was that question ever answered, you know, as it relates to the enforcement of said things?
 I'm not asking for the petitioner to, I'm asking about council rules. I'm talking about enforcement by local government. These are rental apartments though, right? Right. So the lease provision could. Right. So the, and I don't have a clear answer other than. That's why I said the council. Right. But I do have a comment or maybe suggestion on the best person to go to. Right.
 When I remember when Councilman Warner brought it up and my thought process was the residents, would we allow residents to offer up their units as short-term rentals? We weren't going to do that. We had toyed with that idea, but we decided not. I think his concern was more the actual owner offering up short-term rentals, which we also don't plan to do. We definitely don't plan to do that.
 In terms of enforcement, I would say for  if it was the renters that we were concerned about, it would be pretty easy because we could put that in the lease, and I think that's pretty enforceable or pretty easily enforceable. For us, it's really more on the city to enforce 
 It's probably a question for Angela, because I imagine it's a zoning issue. Either way, we're not going to do it, but I would start with Angela to get that answer. Well, thank you, because Angela is not here or in Council of Warner. So, well, that's why I can figure it out. Wasn't asking. What do you propose?
 Well, we obviously have to change the zoning code on those things so they can be enforced. That's what I will propose. I'm not sure what the language would be, but I think we have an attorney that helps us out with crafting bills and legislation in that way. And if you don't mind, Bob, you know, that's not a conversation, but, you know, the work and then we can figure it out. But in order for something like that to be enforced, it has to be written down. Thank you. Thank you.
 Ordinance that would ban pre-owners from subletting properties? We can talk about it. I can't make that decision right now, but we can talk about it. I think it needs to be talked about. If the homeowners in that area were having a concern with Airbnb, it should be addressed. Now, if we find it to be detrimental to the growth of this city, then we don't do it. But it needs to be talked about.
 Thank you. With that being said, council, what's your pleasure? Move for adoption. Thank you. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2349 has been adopted.
 Please give Resolution 2350 a reading. 2350, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1901 North Bendix Drive, South Bend, 46628, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for crossroads,
 Solar Enterprises, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. Bill 23-50 came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record.
 Mark Biemender for Manager of Business Development within Community Investment and with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Bill 2350 is a confirming resolution for a five-year personal property abatement for Crossroads Solar Enterprises LLC located at 1901 North Bendix Avenue. This company is a newer entry to our local manufacturing companies, and they produce solar panels using a workforce comprised of expellents.
 The majority owner, Pat Regan, is involved with workforce reentry programs, which are designed to provide a landing pad for individuals who have paid their time and are trying to integrate back into society in which Crossroads now plays a part.
 This abatement is meant to support their development of a new solar panel assembly line that will create 15 new full-time positions and is expected to quadruple their production capabilities. The panels are sold nationwide to a variety of different markets, and company growth is currently limited due to them being at their operating capacity, hence the new line capacity.
 They anticipate that the new equipment will cost roughly a million dollars to install and bring operational. Current personal property taxes are around $6 million.
 uh excuse me around six thousand dollars annually and this new equipment is expected to generate around eighty thousand in new taxes um of this an estimated sixty eight thousand would be abated and a little under twelve thousand would be paid after the abatement period ends it is estimated that the equipment will generate around thirty five thousand in new tax dollars over the following five years
 uh this uh the following slide breaks down the math a little behind these numbers well a little more and assumes that depreciation will occur over a nine to twelve year cycle uh that covers the basic components and i believe pat reagan was calling in i know he's having some technical issues getting answers yeah okay thank you is the petitioner on
 i'm here actually thank you please state your name and address for the record patrick regan crossroads solar 1901 north bendix drive south bend thank you at this time i'll turn to council do you have any questions seeing none i'll go to the public is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of bill of resolution 2350 there's no one
 I think that's wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Same said, is anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. The public portion is now closed. Council, what's your pleasure? I move the passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 council member hammond aye vice president mskovsky hi president mcbride hi thank you resolution 2350 has been adopted clerk jones will you please give resolution 2351 a reading
 2351, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving an extension of the interlocal agreement between the City of South Bend, Indiana and St. Joseph County for the housing and operation of the Special Victims Unit. Thank you. Is there a committee report? That was started before the Health Public Safety Committee earlier today. It comes before the Common Council with the favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 petitioner please unmute yourself and give your name and address for the record thank you kylie connell city of south bend assistant city attorney representing the south bend police department my office is located at 701 west sample street south bend indiana
 And this interlocal service agreement is between the St. Joseph County and South Bend Police Department, particularly the City of South Bend, for the housing and maintenance costs of the Casey Center housing the Special Victims Unit. This agreement was established in 2009 when SBU was originally called the Family Violence Unit. It has been regularly renewed since that time.
 Collaboration between South Bend PD, SVU, Casey Center, Mishawaka County is crucial for investigating these sensitive cases and providing the various resources to victims all under one roof. And the parties involved with this agreement, County and South Bend, all agree that the continued collaboration is in the community's best interest.
 and we are asked for the approval of the interlocal service agreement and the appropriation of 40 000 to go towards the building maintenance and housing costs thank you so much council do you have any questions of the petitioner counselor wax thank you were you able to find out uh if other municipalities are providing towards um towards the casey center similar to we're doing and if so how much
 So county contributes $45,000. Mishawaka does not contribute any financial for the building maintenance and housing costs.
 I would remind the council that county also provides one investigator. Mishawaka provides one investigator. South Bend PD provides two investigators and pays for an additional three investigators. At one point, South Bend PD had more investigators assigned from PD, but we had to reduce those costs as our levels went down. At some point, if our levels go back up,
 and we may be able to assign more, but at this point we only assign two. Does Notre Dame contribute? Notre Dame only contributes kind of as assisting as needed. They don't actually assign anyone there, and they don't have any financial interest in anything with SBU. I know they work closely with their cybercrimes, any kind of cybercrimes issues that SBU has.
 And I know you may not have the answer to this, but do you know why South Bend, other than the county, is the only one contributing towards this financially?
 Partially related to the amount of staff who actually are housed there. So Mishawaka only has one person who's actually housed at the Casey Center, where county has their investigator. They have the three investigators that they hire through the city. In addition to any support staff, the city or not the city attorneys, but the prosecuting attorney staff who is there as well. And then South Bend has the two staff members there.
 But other than that, I don't have any further information about the breakdown. It's just another knee-jerk reaction. You remember when they shut down the relationship with the Metro Homicide, and then there was no response, and then all of a sudden there's a response, and then it's still we're paying for more. Again, bad planning. Any other questions at this time? I'll turn it to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor? No.
 OF RESOLUTION 2351? THERE'S NO ONE FROM THE VIRTUAL AUDIENCE EXPRESSING INTEREST TO SPEAK IN FAVOR OF RESOLUTION 2351. SAME SAID, IS THERE ANYONE WISHING TO SPEAK IN OPPOSITION? THERE'S NO ONE WISHING TO SPEAK IN OPPOSITION AS WELL. THANK YOU. AT THIS TIME, THE PUBLIC PORTION IS NOW CLOSED. COUNSEL, I'LL TURN BACK TO YOU FOR COMMENTS. COUNSELOR WAX? I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS BECAUSE
 how much I do appreciate the work both Svu whether art through our department through the county through the prosecutor through Casey Center I don't want to do anything tonight that might jeopardize the great work that they do what I will say is I don't think it makes sense that because we're supplying more manpower that we should be the ones who are responsible for paying for the upkeep of the facility too it seems counterintuitive
 And before we do this again, which I'm assuming will be, okay, well, I don't know where I'll be in five years, but this should change and I would like to see a more equitable arrangement.
 Thank you. Any other comments? Counselor Lee? I just want to say that the amazing work that the SVU unit does, I've seen on firsthand how they've helped victims of sexual crimes and going after those individuals. This is a very important group of individuals. So as Eli said, you know, they do a lot of great work and help a lot of people. And so I support it.
 Thank you. Counselor Hammond. Thank you. Kelly, are you suggesting that when we're fully staffed in South Bend Police Department, we'll be adding more officers? I'm just saying that that's an option that PD could have. Okay. Thank you. Counsel, what's your pleasure? Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2351 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give a reading to 2352?
 2352, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving an interlocal agreement between the City of South Bend, the City of Mishawaka, and the Board of Commissioners of St. Joseph County for the mutual investigation of officer-involved shootings in St. Joseph County. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, this resolution was heard in front of Health and Public Safety earlier this afternoon, and it comes before the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you.
 petitioner thank you again this is kylie connell city of south bend assistant city attorney representing the south bend police department my office is located at 701 west sample street south bend indiana south bend pd is requesting the approval of an interlocal agreement with mishawaka and saint joseph county for the cooperative investigation of officer involved shootings or deaths
 as a result of alleged other actions of an officer in St. Joseph County. PD has a long history of cooperation with Mishawaka and St. Joseph County Police Departments. Since the dissolution of the Metro Homicide Unit, it necessitated the establishment of practice and procedure for these investigations.
 And all parties to this agreement want to continue that collaboration as has been happening since the dissolution of Metro Homicide. And we ask for your approval. This is, again, not an appropriation of any funds. It's just for exchange of services for the investigation. Thank you. Counsel, do you have any questions? If not, I'll turn to the public. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2352? No.
 There's no one from the public expressing the interest to speak in favor of 2352. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. Counsel, are there any additional comments? If not, what's your pleasure? We move in second and clerk Jones to roll, please.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Misgoste. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Resolution 2352 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4823 a first reading.
 48-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1044 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 4823 to Board of Zoning and Annexation on 8-7 and then to Zoning and Annexation for Public Hearing, the third reading on 8-14. So moved. Second. Has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Unfinished business. I know, Counselor White, you had a comment about the joint committee meeting between residential neighborhoods and health and public safety.
 Yes, unfortunately, the joint meeting between residential neighborhood committee as well as the health and public safety committee has been canceled for tomorrow. That meeting was scheduled at 530. We were going to begin to look at parking, illegal parking, cutting grass and also parking.
 trash within our community and we're not able to do that on tomorrow. I would ask the clerk's office to make sure that the neighborhood engagement committee, I mean, department is aware of that because we had invited a number of the neighborhood associations to join us tomorrow, as well as community investment. They were going to give a presentation in regards to code enforcement. Thank you. Is there any other unfinished business?
 Is there any new business? Mr. Davis. Thank you. Really quick, I went to a meeting maybe a week or so ago about Linden Avenue corridor project. Linden Avenue corridor was supposed to help enhance what we are calling the dream center, which is new Martha King Center. It was supposed to be extended from linen and olive to linen and walnut.
 the project itself has been scaled back to two blocks now from college to bursal street that's where the plans of the entire uh street is going to supposedly go into play that is not what the uh
 neighborhood organization have worked on that's not what the city departments have worked on I don't know what happened but I'm bringing it up because that was something that was supposed to have happened I don't know well this has been four so maybe about eight years ago or six years ago so we're dealing with you know another level of broken promise and another level of divestment in the area that is really really really really in need of investment um private as well as public so
 I'm not sure who made that decision. I'm not sure what the next steps are. But whoever is, would that be parked? Or what committee is that? It's not park. It's community investment, right? Rachel, I think it will be apropos that we have a discussion with the departments about
 uh department head or the planners on why this is being scaled back and why the neighborhood is not getting what they have signed up for for the last i don't know maybe six ten years it would be awesome if we could get a meeting
 why don't you and i chat after uh afterwards or another time give me a call and i can better understand exactly what you're talking about we can i said that the money that was planned for linda avenue as a quarter project has been scaled back a neighborhood organization that has worked on the planning for the last 10 years you can't hear what i'm saying you're talking to her
 And Mr. Davis, I want to know what's going on. Don't worry about it. I got four more months left. Don't worry about it. I hope it works out. Sir, all I'm saying is just talk and what is rude. No, it's rude. The last thing I want to talk about the ethanol plant. The ethanol plant is expel expelling or has been caught dropping.
 hazardous waste inside of the Kenyan Key River. I don't know if everybody's been watching that. My question is that the tax payment that we gave that particular developer or that particular business, does that come back under scrutiny or do we just like move on from the environmental pain that we're feeling right now? No one has to answer. Mr. Bob, I got a question for you. Does that come back under scrutiny? No.
 The tax abatement. That would come back through community investment. Is it a violation of their. If I may. Sure. The state has been.
 They've been notified of that. And from what they could tell, what was released isn't anything too toxic. It was confined to one of the ponds there. And they've been actually pumping oxygen in that prevents any of the further blooms that are emitted from what was dumped into that.
 So it's being mitigated now. I don't know all of it, all of the every little bit of it. Other than I do know that the state is involved. They have been in there and doing the remediation process. And I was informed that it was very much under control. And I can't remember exactly what happened. I mean, obviously, it was an accident there.
 Yeah, no, no, no, no. But the state has went in and it has to do with an oxygen process. So it's really mitigated and stopped a lot of that. If I may, there was a new report that came out yesterday. What you're referencing is the ethanol. There is sludge that is now seeping that is not part of the ethanol leak itself. So.
 It would be a good idea for us to understand what the full extent of that particular pollutant would be and what the plan is for mitigating this new environmental concern. And I agree that if it's not dealt with, that would be something that we should look at, maybe a clawback.
 can i just uh president mcbride can i just answer yes respond to that uh at community our community investment committee meeting a week ago maybe two weeks ago um i know this issue was brought up and at the time uh at the time department had mr caleb bauer answered with the information that he had available
 And so once again, Mr. Davis, you and I can chat offline and we can schedule some conversations with DCI if you'd like.
 I think it would be apropos that we have a meeting with the council and the committee structure because everything else in all business was handled through the committee structure. You and I are just talking to DCI about whatever they're trying to plan. Just continue to contact me and we can discuss a proper way forward. And I'm open to that. Yes. Thank you. You've given two items for consideration, so I'd like to understand exactly what you'd like to see. So we can  I'm happy to talk to you afterwards. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 At this time is the purpose of the floor. I had one more thing. Oh, I'm sorry. That's all right. Coming off of that issue with sludge and the exposure to the water table, the water quality for all of the states in the nation was released this week. And Indiana is 10th from the bottom.
 so i would think that and i spoke to councilman davis it would be time to have a utilities meeting so that they could speak about the water quality in south bend put people's concerns at at ease if that is the case and if not what can we do to make the water quality in south bend better because we're part of that
 study and that does not look good for us at all. Just let me know the proposed date when you are, Councilor Davis. I'll reach out to them for me to get it on the agenda for an update. Thank you. At this time, we'll open up to the privilege of the floor. Individuals who wish to address the Council must give their name and address
 And you're limited to three minutes and you cannot discuss anything that was on the agenda for this evening. Good evening. Good evening. Sharon Panicki, 3822 Ford Street. I just recently became aware of a situation with the South Bend Water Works that senior citizens that don't pay their bill on time are getting hit with a five dollar a month fee. Um.
 The person, it wasn't showing up on their bill, and then, bam, it was there. She went in, talked to them, they made some calls, and she tried to explain that her Social Security comes three to five days after the due date and asked if something could be done to adjust her due date and was informed that, no, this is your due date.
 So, you know, senior citizens, it used to be the third of the month Social Security was there. Utilities worked with the seniors to give them that time. And nowadays Social Security comes out depending on when your birth date is, what Wednesday you get it. And I don't know if there's something that can be done. You know, these seniors are getting, it's only $5 a month. But, you know, it's $60 a year and over three years it's $180.
 you know, and it just builds up. So if that's something that could be looked at, worked on, tweaked. My other topic tonight, I had my grandson spend the night Friday night. And as we're getting ready to go to bed, he normally sleeps with me. He's still young. And he comes up to me, he says, Meemaw, can I sleep on the floor? And I looked at him and I says, but there's not that much room. Why do you want to sleep on the floor? And he says,
 He says, because I don't want to get shot. And all I could do was hug him and tell him that I would protect him the best that I could. And he says, Meemaw, I'm not ready to die yet.
 This is from a little five-year-old boy that just occasionally comes to visit me, and it broke my heart, and it's bothered me all weekend, and it has tore me apart, and I cannot imagine what it does to the children that have to live this life day in and day out.
 When budgets come up, please give the police more money, more resources. We are missing something in this community. And these children are growing up fearful. I don't see a way out of it. I mean, I know everybody is doing everything they can. And I'll reach out to Scott. He has a good relationship with Scott. So Scott will sit them down and tell them that they're doing the best they can to protect him and Meemaw.
 But not every child has somebody that can reach out to a police officer that will come out and try to reassure them. And these children need this reassurance. I spoke with Karen for just a hot minute. I can't imagine these kids being up all night and then having to turn around and try to go to school and focus, not knowing what's going on back at home anymore.
 We've I don't know what the answer is to the violence, to the gun violence, but we're missing something and we need to keep focusing and pushing and figuring it out. Thank you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else? Please state your name and address for the record. Hi, my name is Frank Fannin, 24, 18, Fredrickson, South Bend, Indiana. I want to thank you for having us in here tonight.
 I just went, I got into that, I'm not sure who can help me or where I need to talk to, but I got in that program for the roof and the furnace program, and I did the first steps, and I passed, and the inspector came out to my house, and I got denied because I had some code violations, and he said it was unsafe. The inspector wouldn't even come under my roof. He said my roof was so bad. I'm on disability. You know, I don't have the money to put the new roof
 I know my, because the roof leaks. I had a bedroom upstairs with a roof that I had fixed, and it leaked back through again. You know, I mean, I'm going to repair that. And my kitchen where it's leaked, you know, and I've got 75% of my materials to redo the kitchen. But I can't, it doesn't make sense to redo the work and have the roof leak again. But I got denied. And I said, you know, I mean, what do I need to do? And I just kind of got, well, apply next time.
 you know and i called henry's office about two weeks ago that's why i got a call back and i haven't received a call back from that yet either and uh when i was down at that and have i've been to uh humanity humanity and i'm too young for that i've been to the heritage and you know they do certain neighborhoods i mean i mean my roof is bad
 you know i mean i'm willing to you know like the gentleman was with the the garage i'm willing you know i'm going to do the work but i got to have my roof done before the work can be done and i got friends you know because when the guy came out the inspector he says oh yeah yeah you need a roof so i thought okay so i got my friends saying in september you know i figured you'd give them enough time because the inspector told me have patience
 So I told my friends, maybe in September, when my roof is done, we're going to redo my kitchen. You know what I mean? And, you know, I can't see taking the money, the little money I put into the kitchen, and then having the roof leak again. You know, I go up there with tar, and, you know, my friends go up by my room with tar, and we try to patch it, you know, but, I mean, it just leaks. And I don't want to, you know, it's starting to become mold and, you know, and, you know, like I said, I'm on a fixed income, and, you know,
 I mean, it's my only, my last choice. I've been to the South Bend Heritage. I'm with Real Services, been, you know, trying to work with me, trying to find a place. I mean, this is my, like, my last hope. You know, back, I worked for AM General for 20-odd years. But then I got sick. See, so now I can't, you know, your bills, you can't pay your bills. Credit goes bad. So I can't go out and finance. Because now, you know, my credit's not, you know. But I don't know what to turn to. So I just, I appreciate you helping. Thank you.
 Councillor Davis, thank you. Thank you so much, sir. Is there anyone else, sir? Councillor Davis will take care of your situation. Okay. Thank you so much. With that being said, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.