The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Torado, would you please give Bill 30-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located 1022 East Colfax Avenue, Councilmanic District number four in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Yes, the Zoning and Aggregation Committee met this afternoon and we bring this bill to you with a unanimous report in favor.
 All right. Petitioner is present, and I ask that you state your name and address and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Skip Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of this building. This is bill number 30-24 for location 1022 East Colesfax Avenue. Owner is WebSquared LLC, and the request is a rezoning from what's currently U2 Urban Neighborhood 2 to NC Neighborhood Center. First, to provide some context, this is a view of that house.
 from the north. And then if you kind of pull back, the property owner actually owns this property, and then the one that's to the left. And then this is a view looking to the east at that intersection of Colfax and, uh, Eddie there. So first provide some, some neighborhood background. The site we're looking at is what's highlighted in orange. It's on the far right side of the screen there. Uh, one property over from that intersection of Colfax and North Eddie street. Uh,
 The existing building dates back to about 1870, which is a similar time period to a lot of the other residential structures in the area. And this area was developed in the early 1900s, combination of single family homes and then also commercial uses that are primarily focused as you move west towards downtown. But then commercial locations spotted in along Colfax Avenue and also along LaSalle Avenue on this corridor there.
 And in recent years, this neighborhood has seen a growth of service and small-scale commercial and office use. So rezoning would allow this property to expand those uses in the area. Now, looking a little more closely at the specific kind of local context, again, this is that parcel there highlighted in white. This property abuts NC Neighborhood Center zone parcels to the north, to the east, and to the south, and then an urban two parcel to the west east.
 It's located one property west of a highly trafficked intersection there at Colfax and Eddy Street. And as I pointed out before, this property is just one property to the west of the common owner. That's that parcel right there, the NC parcel on the corner of Eddy and Colfax.
 Rezoning the parcel to NC Neighborhood Center would again tie this property into that one to the east under common ownership and common zoning and would allow for more commercial development in the area that sort of transitions from the more residential to the east as you move west into downtown. This also is consistent with the South Bend Comprehensive Plan from 2006.
 the objective to pursue a mix of land uses along major corridors. And it's also in line with the, this area was highlighted in the future land use plan is mixed use. I do want to note that at the plan commission meeting last week, we did have a letter of remonstrance and also public statement from the neighbor who's in that parcel, just to the West and that you two zone parcel there. Um,
 And he was really contending that this parcel should be zoned rather than NC as UF Urban Neighborhood Flex, which would be one step down in zoning. It would allow for the uses that are proposed by the current property owner of a beauty salon, an office space. And there's a number of other uses. I'd be happy to talk more about this afterwards. But ultimately, this rezoning comes to you from the plan commission with a favorable recommendation to rezone to NC Neighborhood Center.
 All right. We talked about this in the committee meeting. Council members, do you have any questions? Question. Councilwoman. Mr. Morrell, in Neighborhood Center, there are,
 Building facade and material requirements and then some landscaping. So would those be brought up to date? That's right. If this were to pass as NC? That's right. And then in urban flex, are there requirements that they would need to bring up to date? Right. The current parcel is already up to date on both those requirements for urban flex or neighborhood center, but it would need to meet any sort of zoning standards that applied to that district on rezoning. Yes.
 Okay. It wasn't clear to me from looking at the picture that it met the requirements for neighborhood center with regards to landscaping and building materials. For landscaping, there's no foundation landscaping required in a neighborhood center. The idea is that with the setback of zero feet, there wouldn't be room for that landscaping. I see. Okay.
 Well, there's tree lawn. Right. So the tree lawn, you would have to plant one tree for every 30 feet. I believe there is a tree there. So that would satisfy. There's no 30 feet. Right. Yeah. Right. Got it.
 I understand that. Just I, you know, I understand the logic and trying to connect the two properties together. I what I'm concerned about is this is the same thing, you know, I mean, and so when we get these petitions before us and there is a use being proposed, I guess, you know, it is an outstanding question in my mind. Why not use the leased property?
 You know, and so and to just bring it up one step, if it meets the proposals being, you know, the request for the petitioner. And I guess I just see a number of different corridors in our city where we have.
 There's zoning that went to, you know, higher than what it could have and and some of the effects that, you know, we're seeing decades later about it. So I'm I'm cautious of sure of this kind of move in general is the petitioner is here. Is there anything you want to add before the rest of council members ask questions? Oh, yeah.
 Hello, my name is Justine Webb, and I'm one of the owners of WebSquared. State your address for the record also. We're located at 1028 East Colfax Avenue in South Bend, Indiana. 466-2817. It's 466-17. I'm sorry. Nervous. I guess nothing to add just besides I do think it would...
 It would be beneficial to have them both zoned the same since it's common ownership. I don't think there's anything else that was left out. Do you have any questions I can answer? Vice President Miszkowski. Thank you. In the committee earlier today, you had stated that you were restoring because these are historic homes, right?
 I said that 1028 is a historic. Well, it is historic. It can be on the registry if I were to add it, which is something I plan to do. I think that would be nice down the road. I'm not certain on 1022 if that one is on the historic district. And, Skip, for the property owner, is there a house on that property, the person that was –
 objecting to the rezoning or is that a lot i i'm not real familiar i couldn't tell by the there i don't know if you can see with the pictures there there there is a house there yes there is a house okay enough that helps been there a long time no any other questions if i may i guess i do want to add um
 The South Bend Clinic is right across the street. And so one of the concerns was increased traffic in the area. Their parking garage lets out right across the street from me. And that is also a much larger, taller building than mine. Yellow Cat Cafe is also on the corner. An apartment complex is to my immediate east.
 And then actually there's only four residential homes on Colfax starting from my building going to the west. So I do feel like the trend is more commercial and I'd be more appropriate anyways to have more commercial in that area for economic purposes. Anyone else? Councilwoman Sherry Bowden Simpson. And I know you had said I think I misunderstood. You said the 1028 is definitely a historical building.
 Yeah, it's not registered yet. I have to do that. I still have to apply for that. It's in my plans. But yeah, I didn't change any of the...
 original structure of it. And it's because it was the mayor of in 1903, 1910-ish, something like that. He's the architect that actually designed the building. And that's why it would qualify as a historic building. So you're going to check on 10-2, you weren't sure? Because I was wondering if you did, if the 10-22 turned out to be also to be on the historical list?
 You don't know yet, right? I don't know. Would that be really great? Because I love historic buildings. And I don't know this answer. When you register a building as a historical building, then there's some limitations on what you can do to it. Oh, absolutely. It's very restricted. Anyone else? All right. Skip, can you go back to that chart where you had all of the.
 the nc centers all of the pink is nc center correct that's right yes and so that one is the white one that's right right in line with with nc center that's right yes i just want to see that and it shares a parking lot with the with the other building correct that's right so these these two parcels are both owned by web squared llc and they share that parking lot all right
 No other questions from anybody else? I'll now go to the public. Clerk Torado, is anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 30-24? I do not see anyone in the chambers here or online. Is there anyone wishing to speak? One second. I'm sorry. Jordan, are you wishing to speak in favor or in opposition? In favor.
 Okay. Mr. Geiger, please unmute yourself and continue. Okay. Jordan Geiger, 302 South Falcon Street. I attended the meeting earlier and voted in favor of passage of this bill.
 I do think that it should continue to move forward. I feel that Justine, just from what I know of her, I don't know her personally, but from what I know of her, she's a very responsible business owner. She supported a lot of minority and disadvantaged businesses here throughout the city here.
 And given the fact that there are already properties that have the same zoning, I don't think that what she's trying to do here will create as much disruption as might be anticipated or suspected. And there's really no evidence to suggest that that will be the case. So I just think that given, you know, what she's given to this community and the fact that other properties or parcels are zoned similarly, the council should support this action.
 or this request i'm sorry this requested result all right um clerk towards anyone's wishing to speak in opposition i do not see anyone from the chambers or online wishing to speak in opposition of the bill
 At this time, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 30-24. Like to make a comment if we could. Okay, yes, sir. Come back to that before we go to motions, Chair. Yep. So I won't go too deep into this as I went in this afternoon, but and I support the rezoning and thank you for your investment in the community. I'm gonna share the uses here.
 Once my concern is just the uses and when we over zone on something, it ends up creating a potential in the future uses are temporary uses of the building and zoning is permanent. Once we go up and make that up zoning, it almost never goes back down. So you could have a beauty shop or something or CPA business open or a bookstore open.
 I've got this experience in the 4th district of the bookstore open and then five or eight years later that business closes up and then somebody is able to come in and because it's been zoned higher, open something with much more density and traffic than what initially was proposed and zoned for. So that's just my concern is when we get in a pattern here of up zoning higher than what's needed for the proposed use.
 is my objection to the bill. Thank you. I would just say, I just want to, oh. Hold on. Councilman Davis.
 I can see light in what Councilman Warner said, and we had a good discussion about that in our other meeting. I think the concern sometimes while we have to look down the road for those things, we also have to balance it out with those who are there now. She's been at that corner for a while. It does blend in with the next door neighbor situation.
 I think that there is possibilities that people can rezone and it could be lower, they can go higher. Those are times when they have, but
 Sometimes we have to also consider the people who are coming to us for zoning and their worker and then look at that and then help to benefit them and make those decisions and have to deal with some things down the road if they do come and not penalize somebody today who is willing to work and has shown that. That's when I had that discussion and that was when I went ahead and changed my vote to support it.
 Councilwoman Thomas-Morgan? Yeah, I just want to share. I mean, I can see the logic and rationale kind of either way. And so it for me is a question of a slippery slope. I live on a corridor that could very easily kind of go a similar way once you start moving.
 you know, kind of upzoning and, and then you, you get, um, an owner and this is nothing about you or your character at all. I, I actually, I go by this a lot. My kids go to school across the street there and used to when they were little. And so I've seen the, um, I don't know how long you've owned, um, 1028, but I've seen the improvements that have happened. Okay. Six years. So even before that, I've seen the improvements that have been happening on that, um,
 um, in that, on that, uh, property. But I guess I don't, you know, I, I struggle with the rationale that, um, you know, when a property owner wants to start buying properties down a block, then we should uniformly, um, zone them. And, um, so, and, you know, the, the permanence of it, um,
 Is problem, you know, is problematic to me. I've seen some of the consequences of those past decisions in various areas of our city. So I, you know, on this, I feel like I can support it or I can't. But I also feel like if there was a situation where you wanted to up zone that comes back to the council and then that's another discussion. Anyone else?
 So she already owns a property that's neighborhood center, correct? That's right. Yes. The one that's right next to it. Get back to the map. That's right. So the one on the corner there. And then the one under it, the two, three, three that are under it is neighborhood center also. So that would just complete the puzzle. And if you look around, there's a lot of neighborhood centers there. And it did come favorable from the plant commission, correct? That's right. Okay.
 That is correct. All right. Well, I will now enter a motion. I'd like to make a motion to bring this bill to the full council favorably. Second. I'm going to motion and second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Warner? No. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Nay. Council Member Dr. Davis? Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers? Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson? Nay.
 Council Member White. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Five ayes. All right. At this point, Bill 3-24 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. It's 6-2. 6-2. Clark, Toronto, are you good? Yeah. Public hearing. Make sure everybody wanted to be clear that it was 6-2. Yes, we're good.
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing a direct loan to the developer of an economic development facility, Lincoln Park Project, and approving other matters and connections therewith. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. The bill was heard in Committee Investments this afternoon and comes forward with a favorable recommendation.
 We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill as before. Chair, if I would, I'd like to make a motion to accept the substitute bill. I'm so sorry. Yes. Also, one other thing. The number of the bill is 3324. That was not announced before the title was run. All right. I second the substitute. All right. There's been a motion in the second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll.
 Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Bolden. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 33-24 a second reading?
 Substitute bill 33-24, second reading. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing a direct loan to the developer of an economic development facility, Lincoln Park Project, and approving other matters in connection therewith. All right. Now, is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. The substitute bill 3324 was heard in community investment and comes forward with a favorable recommendation. All right. We see that petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Good evening, Council Members. Caleb Bauer, Director of Community Investment Offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you today are a pair of economic development loans, both of which combined would unlock the development of 122 new single-family homes in a pair of neighborhoods in South Bend. I'll talk through the Lincoln Park project and bring up our partners from Intend Indiana, which is Bill 3324 before you today. Thank you.
 This is similar to the presentation I provided at committee, but the first project is located in the Lincoln Park neighborhood, north of the city cemetery and south of Lincoln Way West. This is a neighborhood with median home value of $65,000, a vacancy rate of 25%. Roughly one quarter of the parcels in this neighborhood are vacant. Okay.
 higher than the average across the city. And this was a neighborhood that was significantly impacted by the foreclosure crisis as a result of the 2008, 2009 financial crisis.
 In this neighborhood, the city has passively acquired properties over time, and these properties are those contemplated that would be developed by Intend Indiana, a nonprofit housing developer. Overall, this would be a 92-home development project. All of these homes would be for sale, single-family homes.
 with over 40 of them being income qualified for individuals making 80% or less than the area median income. And then a portion of the homes for sale at incomes between 80 and 120% AMI, and then about a third of the homes being sold at a market rate. So that would be the rate that would be justified and a buyer is willing to pay
 in this market, in this neighborhood. As I mentioned, the developer is Intend Indiana. I'll let them give a little bit of their history, but they are a community development corporation headquartered in Indianapolis,
 We got connected with them about a year ago, and we've been in discussion with that team as they've looked to expand the presence of their corporation throughout the state of Indiana. So what began as originally a neighborhood-level CDC has grown into a CDC that also is paired with lending products through a community development financial institution arm and also operated the Marion County Land Bank.
 So a lot of interesting expertise on this team and we'll let them share more about that soon. But a team we're really excited to be working with and have interest in doing a project here in South Bend.
 As I mentioned, one of the arms of Intend Indiana is Affordable Home Matters, which is their affordable housing development arm, what we would generally think of as the mission of most CDCs. What's interesting about Intend is through the community development financial institution side of their team, they're actually able to originate mortgages for the homes that Affordable Home Matters develops, and they can share more about the other items in their portfolio. Okay.
 Again, their goal and mission, assisting buyers, low and moderate income buyers, obtain home ownership, build generational wealth. And they have a track record of working closely with community partners in the city of Indianapolis and have already been engaged on the ground with a number of companies.
 nonprofits and other community partners here in South Bend as they've scoped this project. So we've been really thrilled with their interests and thrilled with the engagement they've had with community partners.
 The terms of this loan would provide a $5 million forgivable loan, which would be released in tranches, annual draws subject to appropriations by the Redevelopment Commission. This loan is funded with Redevelopment Commission-controlled funds from the River West Development Area Tax Increment Financing District. Okay.
 Paired with that would be $20 million in private investment from Intend Indiana, totaling a $25 million investment over a five-year timeframe from 2024 to 2029.
 And shown here on the map is a breakdown of the parcels. All of these have been city-owned parcels. The Board of Public Works has approved their transfer to Intend Indiana. In orange, you can see those that would be sold at the 80% or less AMI rates. And then in blue, you can see those that would be sold at the 80 to 120 rate or at market rate.
 And so the team is expecting to build about 20 homes per year, a mix of incomes between those homes with a higher density of AMI, 80% AMI qualified homes coming in the early years of development and then seeing more market rate come on in the later years.
 So I'll bring up the Intend team. We've got three folks from the team here. Ben Harris, Director of Real Estate Development. Jeb Reese, Associate Director of Land Banking and Special Projects. And I want to give a shout out to Mia Gutierrez, Associate Director of Real Estate Development for the Intend team. And I believe I also saw online –
 CEO Stephen Meyer and President of Intend Indiana, Stephanie Quick. So I want to give a shout out to them for being here online, but I'll turn it over to the team to share a little bit more about Intend. Thank you.
 Hi, good evening. Jeb Reese, 1704 Bell Fountain Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46202. Do you guys need to read your names? Sure. Ben Harris, Director of Real Estate Development, Intend, Indiana, 1704 Bell Fountain Street, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46202. Mia Gutierrez, 1704 Bell Fountain Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana, 46202.
 So our organization started, like Caleb said, as a place-based CDC on the north side of Indianapolis, the near north side of Indianapolis.
 And in the recent years, we've moved statewide and rebranded to Intend Indiana. We carry out our work across four different initiatives under the Intend umbrella. So Affordable Home Matters, which is the housing development subsidiary, Build Fund, which is a CDFI that does small business lending, Edge Fund, which is a CDFI that does affordable housing lending,
 that we often pair mortgage products originated from with the houses we developed through affordable home matters and renew land bank the initiative that originally managed the city of indianapolis's land bank that now provides land banking technical assistance to indiana communities
 So we operate across a spectrum that we call comprehensive community development. And we really look at this as a way to layer our programming and our different initiatives and also partnerships and funding. So we really it really starts with land banking and acquiring the land, which the city has has done very well in the Lincoln Park neighborhood, as well as other places around South Bend area.
 And then we layer that in with public-private partnerships, construction, small business lending through the Build Fund, mortgage lending through the Edge Fund, and the ultimate goal being home ownership and neighborhood stabilization.
 So, this is, again, the map with the orange parcel showing the parcels that have been identified for houses to be sold to those earning under 80% AMI. And just another overview of the project. So, at least 40 units will be developed and sold to those earning under 80% AMI, and the remaining units will be developed and sold to those either between 80% to 120% AMI or at market rate with no income restrictions attached.
 We will be using a mixture of housing types through the pre-approved neighborhood infill guidelines and have been working with the team at Community Investments to identify appropriate floor plans to go on those properties, as well as looking at different variations of roof designs and window placements so that we have a nice variation of different housing types throughout the neighborhood. All of the houses developed in the project will feature at least three bedrooms and two bathrooms, and 100% of all of the units sold will be for home ownership.
 and that's my presentation thank you very much uh council members do you have any questions uh councilwoman rachel thomas morgan mr bauer i was just curious in terms of is there um
 Is there, I just wonder how we get to like the forgivable loan amounts for both of the projects? Is there a formula or a certain ratio that we use? No, in both cases, we came to bring these agreements forward through negotiations with
 the development partners. And so that involves looking at, you know, what is the overall capital stack and expected expenditures as part of a project, where are they at from a financing standpoint? Are there any other philanthropic funds that can be brought to bear? And then looking at how the city can then ultimately fill that gap. In this project, Intend is still pursuing a couple other funding opportunities, one through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis,
 one through the state of Indiana's ready program with the support of the city team. And so there are other resources potentially being brought to bear in this project. Thank you. Thank you. So if we get $25 million of development, they bring $20 million to the table, and then we contribute $5 million, is that right?
 Correct. Correct. So that they can get started and we'll get 92 properties that can eventually be purchased by individuals in that neighborhood or in that area. Those are 80 percent below the AMI. Can you give us what that number is?
 income? Yes. In a single family home, 80% AMI in our metro area is about $48,000 for a one-person household. For a four-person household, it's about $72,000 annually. All right. All right. And it's going in an area that really needs it. Any other council members, any questions or comments? All
 clerk toronto is there anyone that's looking to speak in favor of substitute bill 33-24 in person or online all right if you will please state your name and address for the record don foster 132 chapin street
 At any time, I'm all for improvements and especially for the city. And as Pastor Lee Councilman Lee said, it's so much needed in that area. I just like to bring up just a couple of things of thinking about the opportunity. And, you know, as we're investing our taxpayers money into this, this is this is an opportunity that we can think about the type of the exterior opportunity.
 To get it to go to masonry, just consider masonry, even if it's just the front facade. And I'm thinking about, we know about the bullets flying through all the way through as far as safety, but it's fire and everything else. There's so many benefits that later, if you guys want me to share, I'd be more than glad to. But if we just consider, I understand building costs and all those kind of things, but masonry has so many advantages for it. But it also advantages for the neighborhood that we're investing in.
 resell value and just help bring in the whole neighborhood up to a whole another level of what it looks like aesthetically, not just all the physical advantages that brick or mortar or, or stone or, you know, those things that they have. So I just bring that up for, for a conversation. Thank you. Clark Toronto. Is there anyone that speak to speak in favor? There is no one from the public in the chambers or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? No.
 I do not see anyone in the chambers or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 33-24 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements or comments? Councilwoman White? I'm fine. Everything's good.
 councilwoman miss morgan thank you chair um i was at the redevelopment commission meeting when this project was presented there and um i just wanted to say a similar comment that i i made there and and that is i really um i really laud the idea of um mixed income housing as we're developing challenging places and our you
 community and that, you know, long gone are the times when we're going to concentrate poverty. And so this, this is an exciting project because it brings, you know,
 different levels of housing into a distressed neighborhood and, um, just creates the opportunity for residents to, um, for diverse neighborhoods economically, uh, and, um,
 and to build healthier communities and neighborhoods. So thank you for your investment here in South Bend. I have known of the work that you've done with the lift project in Indianapolis, and hold that in high regards. Anyone? Okay. All right. I will now entertain a motion. Motion to bring to the floor, Council, with a favor recommendation.
 Could you repeat that? Motion for passage. We couldn't hear you. For real? Motion for passage. Yes. And there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Tirado, please call the roll. I would just clarify the motion. This committee of the whole, so it would be to the full council. Okay. Yeah, that's what I said, but you probably didn't hear. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Motion to substitute bill. Passage. Okay.
 Favorable. To the full council, yes. The favorable recommendation. All right. And it's been motioned and seconded. Clerk Torado, please call the roll. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 33-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Toronto, would you please give, I would like to entertain a motion to accept the substitute. So moved. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Second.
 Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. All right, we have now accepted the substitute bill. Clerk Toronto, would you please give substitute bill 34-24 second reading.
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing a direct loan to the developer of an economic development facility, Southeast Neighborhood Project, and approving other matters in connection therewith. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes. Substitute Bill 3424 was heard in Committee Investment and comes forward with a favorable recommendation.
 All right. As petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Hello again, council members. Caleb Bauer, director of community investment offices on the 14th floor of this building. As mentioned, this is a similar economic development loan for the Southeast Neighborhood Project in partnership with 466 Works. And if you'll bear with me, it looks like my computer just disconnected here. There we go.
 So, similarly to the last presentation, just talking through where this project is located, the southeast neighborhood, median home value of $50,000, vacancy rate right at the citywide average 21% of parcels in the neighborhood are vacant.
 This project in partnership with 466 Works would involve the construction of 30 new single-family homes, all intended for sale for homeownership, with at least 12 of those homes being sold to individuals earning less than 120% of area median income. As I mentioned, 466 Works, a local 501c3 project,
 Community Development Corporation is the developer. And you can see here a photo of one of the homes that was recently under construction, actually built by the South Bend School Corporation construction trades program. So high schoolers throughout the system meet at Riley High School for that class and have built now three homes in the neighborhood, I believe they're on their third.
 The 466 Works project would involve a $3.5 million forgivable loan paired with $5.2 million of private investment, a total of $8.7 million over the 30-home construction process. Shown here on a map are the city-owned parcels that were part of a resolution already approved by the Board of Public Works transferring them to the ownership of 466 Works. The other properties involved in this –
 deal are those that are already owned by 466 works in the neighborhood. That's about half and half. The time frame of completion would be three years from 24 to 27.
 And I think I've added back in 466 Works slides. Apologies, I left those out during committee, but I'll bring Charlotte Pfeiffer from the Board of 466 Works and Ann Mannix up to speak on behalf of the organization. Thank you. Good evening, honorable council members. My name is Charlotte Pfeiffer. I reside at 1013 West Washington Street in South Bend. Just quickly, the mission. I can answer this one.
 The mission for 466 Works is to revitalize the Southeast Side neighborhood and to enhance the lives of the neighbors. We went about it in three major ways. Number one, we went to the neighborhood and worked with the neighborhood and talked to them about their hopes and dreams for the neighborhood. We didn't do anything to the neighborhood. We did it with the neighborhood. Sure.
 The second thing is our board. All the board members are people who believe in neighborhoods, and also we believe that everyone has the right to the American dream, which is still home ownership. And the ability to pass that home on to their children, that's the way we gather wealth in this country. It still is. And also that's the way we have pride.
 The other thing is that we have our wonderful partners, our community partners and also our housing partners. All of the local colleges and universities have worked with us in one way or another with interns are literally coming to us and working with us. But also, of course, the city of South Bend works.
 but Ivy Tech and Riley High School. So South Bend Schools has always had this program where they built homes in the county. And we went to them and convinced them to build those homes in the city, in the southeast side. That program is located at Riley High School. And this way, the children who build these homes can drive by them and have pride in them.
 The other thing is that, of course, Anne Mannix with Housing Matters, LLC. Anne not only writes grants for us, but she does so many other intangible things for us. She's a great member of our. Also, we have place builders and we might look into later on adding other builders. But right now, place is the one that's come to us and we've served them and they have served us.
 Have to thank Christine Lauber. I think you all know that Christine always does volunteer work for for organizations like ours. And the banks have really stepped up. If we have someone who doesn't have good credit, we can send them to First Source Bank. They put them through the program and get their credit well. And that way they're able to get them, get a loan and get a house. Um.
 Our accomplishments at the end of this year or early next year, we will have built 25 new homes in the southeast side. And I just hope that you take the time to drive through there. You wouldn't recognize it. And the people who have lived there, we wanted to make sure that those who live there could stay there. And some of the people that were living there were renting for eleven hundred dollars a month. And they were able now to move into a home right in their beloved southeast side and again, acquire that wealth.
 We also are really proud that because of the lots we own, we were able to give those lots to the United Way and they built the one roof. And that has really beautifully enhanced that neighborhood. WIC is there. El Campito is there. They have a lot of opportunities for the neighborhood and people to come there and meet and organize things. The last thing I wanted to say is that what we're talking about now, of course, is continuing that work.
 building 30 more houses in the next three years. And now Ann Mannix will talk to you about some of the financial details. Okay. Ann Mannix, 724 West Washington. You've seen this slide. Those are the lots we're going to build on. You can see they're spread around the neighborhood. Next slide. Okay, here's the cost.
 So I broke this slide out. We've got the land for free mostly. Site work is expensive because we have to put in sewers. And a lot of times the sewers have to be totally replaced. We use the city subsidy program. So this is after that. We had a sewer, a tree had grown in it. So we had to take the whole sewer out. Construction, $250,000.
 Let's see. Construction loan closing costs. We're going to start paying our lawyer. We've been giving him he doesn't work for free now, but he is now getting paid. I think contracts for that's also the realtor and my and then we have the realtor fee and we're getting a modest developer fee under ten thousand dollars a house. And we want to use this project to build up some capital for four six six works.
 And then, so that's $292,000 per house, which is under what you could spend in the market to buy a house.
 And then the next slide, please. You can see where we're getting the money. $116,000 from the city. We are selling the houses now for about $170,000. And we're putting in some of our own money, and we're applying for grants for the difference. One of our board members raised about $200,000, which was pretty amazing. So we have varied sources of funds to meet our cost.
 Are there any questions? Oh, the cost of the homeowners, thank you, about $1,350 a month. And that's a lot less than some people are paying for rent. And that's with taxes and insurance. So that's our PowerPoint. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions? No questions? All right. We will now go to the public hearing portion.
 Clerk Torado, is there anyone from the public looking to speak in favor of substitute bill 34-24? I do not see anyone from the public or online that wishes to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone in the chambers or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 3424 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? Sure. Yes.
 Brief statement. So I know for many of us, infill housing has been a priority and this is a very exciting day. We're getting 120 new homes built in neighborhoods where only CDCs are building in those neighborhoods.
 to build up and really there's this kind of investment, particularly in Lincoln Park, putting $25 million in investment in that will have a effect that spreads throughout that neighborhood and up to the Lincoln Way corridor and into downtown.
 It's fantastic. It's stupendous. I do want to give kudos and recognize the Community Investment Department. I know that I've seen this presentation a few times, and I know the amount of work and time that went into this project and want to acknowledge Executive Director Bauer
 and Deputy Director Schaffer, thank you, and the staff, Mr. Molnar and legal staff for all of the work that has gone in this and making this big lift, which just followed the Madison Lifestyle District, which was a $300 million investment in the city, another massive lift there. So it's been a very hectic, busy year for staff up there, I know, and we are very appreciative and thank you for all of your work. Yes.
 What else? Dr. Davis. Hold on, Dr. Davis. I'm just going to repeat what Councilman Warner said, but go ahead with Dr. Davis. Go ahead, Dr. Davis.
 Ms. White had been giving me the eyes, so I was making, I want to make sure she is. If she's giving you the eyes, she's closer to you than to me, so she's ready to go first. No, we're going to continue with Dr. Davis. Go ahead, Dr. Davis. All right. I just want to thank, I'm very grateful for this project. I really appreciated what former councilwoman Charlotte Pfeiffer said earlier.
 and the fact that they went and had people to, um, from South Bend schools and others to, um, build in the city of South Bend. You know, I appreciate our county, but it's something else about taking the time to build in our city. And I really appreciate what she said there. And I'm glad that she advocated for that. It's a great area just to see our, um,
 a city grow our people who live here are working on it it's just a great all-around project so i am very grateful and plan to support it but i that part of it stood out for me and i'm sure their attorney is glad to get paid all right
 Okay, I would just like to say and to echo many of the comments that Councilman Troy Warner has made. This is a very exciting time. We have been discussing the need for affordable housing and infill and now to be at this point, this day, to see the number of homes affected.
 that have been projected for our community, especially in those areas that needs it the most. So I wanted to think, you know, the administration, community investment, Homes Matters and 466 Works. I can remember when it was only a dream. I remember the discussions and I remember individuals saying it can't be done.
 And look where we're at at this particular time. So just want to thank each and every one of you and look forward to have the opportunity to walk through those homes. Congratulations. Anyone else? I like to say I'm very proud that we have people that want to go out and make sure that affordable housing come to all the districts. So thank you very much. Anyone else?
 Also, to send the substitute bill forward with a favorable recommendation. Hold on. I want to make my comment. I want to say that my church was in the Lincoln Park area growing up, and it was a greatly distressed area.
 And to see the investment of 90, 92 homes, and then to see what's happening in the southeast side with 30 homes being built. It is really a testament and making it affordable so that people can have affordable housing. It is very important. And this is the reason why we serve on the council. We can't build houses.
 But it is the individuals who have the vision and the resources and then the administration all working together to make opportunities happen for our members of our community. And when we can put quality housing in places that wasn't there.
 then we have something that we all as a community can be proud of. And so I just want to tout that I am very much excited about all of these opportunities that are coming to our city and to our citizens. And when we lift the bottom up, we lift everybody up.
 And now I will entertain a motion. I make a motion to send the substitute bill forward with favorable recommendation. Second. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk, Toronto Police, call the roll. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 3424 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Passage. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. Motion carries. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Tirado, would you give bill 3024 a third reading?
 Third, reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located 1022 East Colfax Avenue, Councilmanic District number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding the bill? Yes, Bill 3024 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill.
 Motion from passage. Second. There is a motion for passage of Bill 3024 and it was seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Nay. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. 7-7 ayes.
 Thank you. Bill 3024 is passed. Clerk Tirado, will you give substitute Bill 33-24 a third reading? I'd just like to clarify, I think that was eight ayes. No, there was one nay. There was one nay. Oh, I apologize. Council Member Tomas Morgan voted no. Thank you. Council Member Warner? No, you got to give it a third reading. Could you give the substitute Bill 33-24 a third reading, please?
 Third, reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing a direct loan to the developer of an economic development facility, Lincoln Park Project, and approving other matters in connection therewith. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation? Yes. Substitute Bill 3324 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you so much. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Move for passage. Second. Let's to bill 33-24. Second. So there has been a motion and seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 3324 has passed. Clerk Tirado, will you give Substitute Bill 3424 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing a direct loan to the developer of an economic development facility, Southeast neighborhood project and approving other matters in connection there with.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation? Yes. Substitute Bill 34-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Motion for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded for passage. Clerk Toronto, could you call the roll, please? Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Bill. 34-24 has passed. Okay, now we're going to go to resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk.
 A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendations is then given. During the public portion of each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you give your name, address, and comments of the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes, with those speaking in favor going first.
 followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. So we are going to move on to Clerk Tirado. Could you give Resolution 2421? A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appointing an agent negotiator and an advisory Common Council negotiating team to represent the Common Council for the upcoming fire department negotiations.
 Thank you. And for the committee report, that was heard in personnel and finance today, and that was given a favorable recommendation to the full council. As far as a presenter, if it's okay if I just sit here instead of going. Okay, thank you. This bill is a resolution, and it's basically just appointing the negotiating team for the firefighters today.
 and for Attorney Palmer, too, as the chief negotiator for the council. And in that, there were two council members, and I believe that was Ophelia Gooden-Rogers and Pastor Lee will be on that team for the firefighters. And I believe there was a letter of intent already sent, and I don't believe a start date has been set forth yet. So it's a pretty straightforward resolution.
 So is there any question from council members on the resolution? Okay. Seeing none, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion of the resolution. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in favor of resolution 24-21? I do not see anyone from the public in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone here wishing to speak against the bill? Okay.
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Okay, thank you. Then I'm going to go ahead and close the public hearing portion and move back to the council. Motion for passage. Second. Okay, it's been moved and seconded for passage. Clerk Tirado, could you take the roll, please? Council Member Dr. Davis? Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member White? Aye.
 Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2421 has passed or has been adopted. Resolution 2422 was pulled. So that if you were here for that one, that has been pulled. Moving on to the final resolution, Clerk Torado, could you give Resolution 2424 a reading, please?
 A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 711 through 713 Leland Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46616, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a six-year real property tax abatement for Crasper Shuts Family Trust. Thank you so much. And is there a committee report from Community Investment?
 This bill was heard in community investments this afternoon and comes forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, and I see we do have a presenter here.
 eric lavage director of growth and opportunity office is on the 14th floor the resolution before you for your consideration concerns a six-year mixed-use real property tax abatement for property that's located at 711 713 leland avenue this is property that is just off of portage between lindsay and pierce you can see on the lower left side there is a triangular
 that's just east of the yellow and red box. That is number six scratch kitchen restaurant, just to give you some perspective. The house as it currently stands is on the right here. Here's an aerial image of the property. You can see what kind of shape it has been in. What,
 The abatement concerns is the owners of number six scratch kitchen own this property. They bought it, I believe, a year and a half ago, and they desire to convert the existing building into a mixed-use property with a restaurant on the first floor and into the basement, and then to rehabilitate the upper floors for residential units. Also, you can see this is a
 site plan of their proposal on the far left side would be the alleyway and they would put in a brand new carriage house there. The carriage house would have residential units. I think part of there was question at the 440 meeting today in regards to parking. I think that at least in terms when I mentioned parking in the carriage house, I believe that it's
 park, there will be like a garage area for the residential units to be able to park in. And then the first floor in the basement would be storage and other space for operations of the parcel. As I mentioned, you know, they will rehab the building and construct the new carriage house. The estimates of the petitioner are about $450,000 in construction costs.
 The tax summary is based on estimates that we ran. Right now, if you were to look at the January 1st, 2024 assessment for this property, you would calculate estimated annual taxes at about $2,700. So that's what currently will be being brought in from this property if nothing changes.
 Post project, we anticipate we're getting up to about $12,000 a year in annual taxes, and it's a six-year abatement. So over a short period of time, just six years, we're looking at some investment in this property. The city will see a significant return in terms of tax revenues, but as Amanda, who come up and just give a quick overview of the project, she'll talk about the importance to the neighborhood.
 what their objective is in terms of transforming this property. So I don't know if Amanda, if you wanted to come up and just say a few words and then we'll be happy to answer any questions for you. Yes. Amanda Schatz, 701 Portage Avenue, South Bend. So yes, we purchased this house and it's in desperate need of rehab. The idea was to add some,
 Additional business services to the community and especially in this neighborhood. There's a lot of families that live locally where there's a lot of people who bike, but there's nothing to really service that side of Portage. There is definitely further down the road. So the idea was to create a small breakfast place, keeping the residential upstairs and then the carriage house in the back. Also with a little market.
 And it sits right next to a new park that's been built by the church behind us, which is supposed to serve, I believe the age range was like three to six. So we're just it's just added services in a neighborhood that desperately need it, basically, is what we're hoping to achieve. And I'm sure Andrew, who's also online, would chime in. I don't know if you can get him. Can I talk? Sure.
 Yep. There you go. Yes, if you could give your name and address for the record, please. Andrew Casper, 701 Portage. So, yeah, the goal here is to create a – is that enough information or did I miss something? No, that's fine. That's all we needed. If you want to make some comments, that would be great. Okay, yeah. It was mostly to create, present to the community a walk-up sort of services, not necessarily requiring –
 additional parking because it's to service mostly the surrounding neighborhood and a place where people could either send their kids to walk up and get something, come to breakfast, go get lunch, what have you, service the mothers maybe with their carriages or the ones that are visiting the park as it turns out. Mostly just a walk-up restaurant and small marketplace as well as providing additional living quarters whether it's upstairs or in the carriage house.
 and kind of turn around the look of that side of the street as well for the neighborhood. That's it unless you want to ask me some questions. Okay well thank you very much and thank you so much for the presentation and for your comments. If you guys are finished I'm going to bring it back to the council members and see if they have any questions for either for anyone that spoke. Any council member Bolden-Simpson? Yes,
 I would. And do you have a business card? I just want to make sure the flow of information between the pastor, the church and you is OK.
 Which councilwoman just spoke? I'm sorry. This is Sherry Bolden Simpson. I'm District 5, but this is a church where I'm the pianist and lifelong member. And so and so I just I know when we brought we're very happy to have have have you in the neighborhood and just want to make sure as flow. There was a little hiccup at the beginning that we got over because we weren't.
 aware. This is for, so I just want to make sure that we just keep the flow of communication going. Okay. Well, last time I was in town, just FYI, I did go and specifically sought out Reverend Washington and I had proposed, although I didn't hear back from him, but I had to leave town, but the proposal and offer is still there to help him with all of his landscaping along the common fence and along the Leland side of the park.
 And I'm looking forward to that meeting at some point when he has time with me to spend and discuss that. And it was all at basically what we would be providing at our cost. Is that sufficient for you, Council Member? If you do have a card, I like it, because if you do have one, that would be fine. Okay. Amanda, do you have a card with you that you would mind providing? Okay.
 Thank you. It's a very busy annual. We're going to go ahead and move on. Is there any other council members? Make comments so we can go right into the after. Okay, then I'm going to go ahead and open up to the public meeting. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in favor? Tom Clemens, 814 Roosevelt.
 Number six, I don't know if you guys have seen there, been there, but the sheer quality of the restoration of that firehouse is remarkable. And we're looking forward to the additional attention to this neighborhood. As you talked about the housing being developed.
 I think this is also the alternate way that you go. You bring in these types of developments that will create the robust turn of and the investment in this neighborhood. So I'm absolutely for this. OK, thank you for your comments. Is there anybody else wishing to speak in favor? I do not see anyone else in the public or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak against the bill?
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Okay, thank you. I'm going to go ahead and close the public hearing portion and bring it back to the council members. Are there any comments before we entertain a motion regarding the bill? Council Member Lee? Of course, we all know that this is in the first district, and as the gentleman said, number six has done a great job renovating that old firehouse and making it a very
 a very trendy eclectic place for people to come and get a good meal. And we're excited about them being able to expand to do breakfast and to have a place where people can walk. There's a lot of people in that area that want walkable places that they can go. And there's a lot of moms and a lot of kids, a lot of families. And so we're excited to see the investment in the area and to take a house that
 we had some trouble with so to see them take a house and turn it into something and and bill is is phenomenal and so i just want to say that i'm supportive of it okay is there any other council members that have any comments chair just quickly i'd just like to thank you for your investment in the neighborhood in the city and we appreciate it and uh thank you yeah i'll entertain a motion regarding the bill i move for passage second clerk toronto it's been moved and seconded could you call the roll please
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 2424 has been adopted. Okay. Don't like that one.
 Okay, now we're going to move to bills on first reading. Clerk Tirado. Oh, I'm sorry. Do we have to read the first? Do you have to? No, she does have to read the bill. Okay, sorry. I lost track of where I was at there for a minute. Clerk Tirado, could you give Bill 3524 a first reading, please? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at
 At 802 East Ewing Avenue, Councilman District Number 3 in the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. And I would like to make a motion to send Bill 35-24 to BZA on August 5th and to the ZNA for public hearing and third reading on August 12th. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember Bowden-Simpson. Apt out.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Tirado, could you give Bill 3624 a first reading?
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located 501 Newmas Parkway, Councilman and District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 3624 to the South Bend Plan Commission for August 19th and to the ZNA Committee for Public Hearing and third reading on August 26th. So moved.
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Aye. Can you hear me? Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Aye. Thank you.
 We are going to move to unfinished business. Is there any unfinished business from the council? Anybody with any unfinished business? Seeing none, is there any new business?
 Any new business from council members? The only thing that I do have to share is Transpo has their new website that's up and running. So if anybody would like to take a look at that, it's a new, there's going to be a lot more interaction as they start rolling it out more, but it's a new website. And they have already started forming their finance committee to move forward with as the budget becomes near in the next several weeks.
 So if there's no other unfinished business or new business, we're going to move to the privilege of the floor. So disrespect of rude speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech or actions as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only.
 The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has already heard previously on the agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for a review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting.
 And I see we have Ms. Pfeiffer. Again, Honorable Council Members, my name is Charlotte Pfeiffer. I reside at 1013 West Washington Street in South Bend. I was wondering if you had time to get back to me about the updates on the Martin Luther King Dream Center.
 If you remember about six weeks ago, I was here and I was just wondering what things are happening, what kind of programs, who's running the programs. I was curious about the advisory committee that's listed on the website, if that's still going on and who the members are. I know someone said earlier,
 And the development, we had these neighborhood meetings and I was part of that and people gave suggestions. But I can assure you, as you all know, that when it opens and people aren't happy or complaining about things, you could head that off by just now having a public committee update and tell us what's going on. I was suggesting that we have some cultural things there. I've suggested African dance there.
 as an example because it's physical, it's intellectual, and it's mental. And it would just help our children take pride in themselves and have things to do. So I was just reminding you, I know you're busy, and just a little gentle reminder that I think that would still be a good idea for you all to do that before you have the grand opening. People are talking about it. People are excited. I go by it every day. I am thrilled. But I really want to make sure that we are having...
 intellectual and educational things for our children by people who look like our children. So Ms. Pfeiffer, if you, if you will go back to your emails, when you said, when you sent that email to,
 we got a response back from Mo Scott and, and Jordan. It went back to you. You sent something in my email. Yes, we did. Okay. Yes. It was right after, after. Well, I was hoping you'd have a, like a, in your committee meeting so people could come and hear it, but I will check my email. I did. He responded back to all of the things. I don't think they've, they've named the advisory committee. Yes. But as soon as you sent that to us, we, me,
 Immediately sent it out and he responded back. I apologize. I didn't see it. But I still would like to know if you would have a committee meeting and advertise it so people could come and hear what you're doing. Yes. The more public you can be, I guarantee you, the better it will be. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. You have your name and address for the record, please.
 Good evening. I'm Brian Myers. I'm a local businessman with an office at 3300 North Kenmore Street here in South Bend. I'm here tonight as a member of the Business United 4. We are a corporation representing over 20 South Bend businesses, and we're still growing. We are seeking fairness for the truly homeless in our community, as well as greater fiscal responsibility from our local government.
 And lastly, fairness and freedom for all media platforms to share and report on the actions of our government. All this is transparent and for the genuine improvement of the city of South Bend. I want to thank Councilwoman Sheila Nagoski, Othello Rogers.
 Sherry Bolden-Smith and Karen White, and Councilman Kenneth Lee and Oliver Davis for meeting with us over the past month to learn about our plans and to protect the city from being overrun by more homeless immigrants and surrounding states and communities. We're getting valuable feedback from their reviews of our efforts. We are also planning to meet next week with Councilwoman Sherry McBride and Rachel Thomas-Morgan.
 We have shared our plans and strategies with each of them. Now I ask Councilman Troy Warner to meet with us and listen to us one-on-one so we can hear your thoughts, wishes, and concerns in reply. I'm confident you will not be disappointed with our plans. Please listen to us as our duly elected official and then meet with us as your constituents so we can hear what you have to say about our plans.
 Thank you very much. Thank you for your comments. Please state your name and address for the record, please. Sarah Foster, 1138 College Street. This evening, I will be reading one of the many complaints filed against Vice President Sheila Naskowski. The writer says, I am writing to formally lodge a complaint against City Council Vice President. Pursuant to the Municipal Code, any preliminary actions or investigation on complaints are confidential.
 Okay. No. She can read the complaint that she submitted. No. It's confidential according to the municipal code. Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street. I have two topics. First, I really want to ask the question of where is the accountability that we deserve? As a resident, I am meant to have a voice through my four representatives on this council. Do I not have the right to be represented by my district councilman, Kenneth Lee, or the other three at large?
 It feels as if the public's concerns are being ignored, leading us to the question whether this is not taxation without representation. Why as of July 22nd has Vice President Sheila Laskoski yet to face public condemnation for her actions on May 13th? And what about the other council members who, while not directly representing me, represent the other residents of South Bend? Their votes, including those of Ophelia Gooden-Rogers,
 Troy Warner and Sharon McBride voted to absolve Neskoski of a wrongdoing. Excuse me. This raises serious concerns. Excuse me. Okay. Pursuant to the municipal code, any preliminary action regarding complaints is confidential, including the vote of the rules committee. One of the things I had asked early on was that the whole council be able to vote openly in public.
 I requested that here in person more than on one occasion. In fact, I even did it online, that the whole council vote not to remove Sheila Laskowski, but to remove her from the committees that she's on. So that was open forum as far as privilege on my floor. I guess it comes to the point, are we here to represent we the people, or do we prioritize the relationships with council peers over the voices of your constituents?
 I can truly tell you that I am not only a person who is upset about the Common Council's lack of action on this matter, but there's many others that are as well. But I'll move to the second point. It has been over four weeks that I have yet to receive a response in writing from President McBride or you, Bob Palmer, about the violations of the Municipal Code and the actions of the Rules Committee. I've asked for a written explanation on June 24th and again an email on July 2nd.
 Here I'm again asking for a response to my email on the third time on July 22nd. Mr. Palmer, on June 24th, President McBride put it on your plate to respond to my request. My question is, why hasn't that been done? I yield my 10 seconds. Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So I'm going to change up my remarks a little bit because we just heard what the parliamentarian said here that the –
 what the Rules Committee says is confidential. But we can go back a few meetings where the president of the Common Council brought up a private complaint that I made against Councilman Henry Davis Jr. when I was bringing up matters unrelated to that complaint. And she brought up that complaint in public in front of all of the council members, the members of the public, and residents of the city. So if what the parliamentarian said is true,
 then that means the president of the Common Council broke the code that you just cited. And if that is true, then I believe another complaint needs to be followed per what you just did here, shutting our speech down today. And when I brought that up to you, Mr. Palmer, and I said that what President McBride did was wrong per the municipal code, bringing up my private complaint, you said that she was allowed to bring it up.
 You said that that was not private. So this is, again, what we're seeing here on the floor of our legislative branch is that we're only protecting those in power. We're not protecting we, the people. We are protecting the elected people, just like when Vice President Nagoski assaulted me, a member of the media and a resident of the city on the floor of the legislative branch, right?
 Where was justice then? Where is justice today that we cannot even talk about it? Where the parliamentarian will talk about the municipal code that we can't talk about it, but the president can sit up there in the council chambers and tell us that, and she can bring up the private complaints that we send to our legislators asking us for help. I didn't send that publicly. I sent that to my legislators asking me for help and to my parliamentarian.
 And then he can shoot us down right here. Where's the fairness in that? Where's the equity? Mr. Palmer, is there equity here? Can we have an answer? Can you send us the code that either Sharon McBride was wrong for what she did, or we're allowed to talk about what we did? You can't have 30 seconds. So can you please, can someone send us an email? Which way is it? Can we talk about the rules committee? Can the president out us for the complaints that we send?
 Or can we talk about him here? Can someone follow up with that? I will follow up with that myself because personally, I'm tired of us not being responsible of as council member. I think we should have done that. I do not like our parliamentarian using his privilege to shut down the floor. In my 12 years on this, that had never happened. I think that's a misuse. And so I apologize on my behalf and I will follow up with that. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Thank you for your comments. Is there anybody else wishing to speak under the privilege of the floor? If not, this meeting is adjourned. Thank you.