Good evening. Can you hear me? I'm not hearing anything at my end. Just if you can indicate if you can hear me, maybe send me. Okay. Okay. I'm not hearing anything. So I will go on with my invocation. Sorry if I'm culpable for the glitch. So thank you for inviting me to be with you this evening.
 As we gather together to conduct the business of the great city of South Bend, let us rededicate ourselves to work together in unity and harmony to improve this particular region of Indiana that we all call home, each of us bringing our individual gifts and talents to this worthy endeavour. Let us pledge to join hands to ensure that the city of South Bend is able to continue to realise the abundant potential with which it is blessed.
 With those sentiments in mind, I offer this prayer by Rabbi Naomi Levy entitled, Our Actions Are Our Prayers Too. The prayer of our hearts and our mouths is our hope and yearning, but the prayer of our limbs, our actions, is our salvation. Dr. Abraham J. Heschel was one of the greatest theologians of this century, not just a scholar and a writer. He was also an activist.
 When he marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in Selma, Alabama, he proclaimed, it felt as if my legs were praying. The goodness that we perform in this world is our highest prayer.
 When we struggle to repair this world, to rise above our complacency and offer compassion, charity and love, we are praying. When we fight to eradicate poverty, injustice and war, when we take the time to perform acts of kindness, we are praying.
 When we gather the strength to give of ourselves to those who so desperately need our assistance, instead of averting our gaze, we are praying. I am my prayer to you, O God, the psalmist cried out. When our actions embody our truest humanity, we become a prayer. And even if we do not pray or believe in God, we,
 Our actions to bring about good and to alleviate suffering in this world are no less important than those of our neighbours who do. Every person deserves to have their suffering alleviated, even and maybe especially those who suffer from illness, including mental illness.
 May we work together to serve all those who live in our community with compassion and understanding wherever possible, rather than with violence and force. When our actions embody our truest humanity, we become a prayer. Amen. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Thank you. Council Member Davis.
 Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Mornan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. A present. Thank you. At this point, we'll move to the report on subcommittee on minutes. We have none. On special business, we have none. Thank you.
 We do have report from city offices this evening, and we have the reporters on Brownfields remediation and Maycock grants and testing plans for neighborhood sites. Looks like Chris Dressel, the city planner, and Leah Thrill, environmental planner with Maycock. Thank you. Good evening, Kayla Bauer. Yes. I'm going to take some comments before the presentation.
 Sure. Absolutely. Councilwoman White would like to make these comments. Please feel free to make a comment. I would just like to say that I was invited by Anne Mannix, who was president of the NWS old neighborhood association on July the 26th, where we had our city planner Chris share
 CITY'S ROLE IN THE BROWNFIELD REMEDIATION, INCLUDING LEAH THRILL, ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING WITH MACON WHO EXPLAINED MACON'S GRANTS AND TESTING PLANS FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD SITES AT THAT TIME. THEIR PRESENTATION WAS SO INFORMATIVE AND I INDICATED AT THE MEETING THAT I WAS GOING TO INVITE THEM.
 to share that information and also to entertain any questions that Council members might have and they consented to do so. Since 2019, my interest in neighborhood sites, including those sites that are challenged in regards to possible contamination
 started at that time. So I'm very grateful that they were able to clear out their schedules to be with us at this time. I would like to also recognize President Raphael Morton, President of the County Council, and Robert Kruzinski, Vice President, known as Bobby K. They're with us at this time. And I'll turn it over to Community Investment Director, Kayla Bauer.
 Thank you, Council Member White. And that was, I was basically going to say much the same. Some questions came up during the Near West Side neighborhood process and were raised by the Neighborhood Association. And so we thought Chris and Leah graciously offered their time to present that to the full council. So I'll turn it over to them. Thank you.
 good evening members of the council i'm chris dressel senior planner with the city of south bend department of community investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building and leah phil and i are here to just offer sort of a recap on what was discussed at the meeting of the near west side neighbor association a few weeks ago council members white and thomas morgan were both
 Present for that. So, so we're happy to to share with the other other Council members. So Leah has a more structured presentation just surrounding the upcoming grant that was awarded to MACOG.
 And, you know, South Bend has been part of that, that Brownfield team. We were active in the current grant and look forward to being part of the future one. And within the grant, the site in the 1500 block of West Washington was a sort of a featured site in the grant application.
 So we'll receive attention as part of that grant. I'll let Leah speak to that. Generally, just wanted to talk about Brownfield. Think some of this may be familiar, but just some is worth repeating and saying again. I think when you're addressing Brownfields, you're really dealing with a list of unknowns
 And so there's two steps to that. One of them is making sure you're thorough in identifying all of the unknowns. And then the next step is going about sort of reducing those unknowns. So depending on the site that you're talking about and the status that it's in, there could be a whole series of unknowns or there's been an opportunity to reduce them.
 because any good definition of what a brownfield is, is really talking about real and perceived concerns. Sometimes the perception is as strong as the reality. When it comes to brownfield sites, South Bend has had a positive history in addressing them. Obviously, we think about the Studebaker and Oliver sites,
 And now Drew Rays is in that list. But it should be, it's worth knowing and repeating that I think a lot of the sites in the city are maybe a little more mundane in the sense of gas stations, dry cleaners. So every major intersection in the city has probably had one or both of those at one time. And while some of these have still managed to
 um contain business or economic act economic activity I think that that activity can be um can be stunted um by by the past presence of of recognized environmental conditions these past uses that have um tended to reduce the possibility of the future of the sites and that's I think that's the key to um
 addressing brownfields is part of it is just sharing sharing information and then moving on to trying to ask the questions about how can sites be best addressed. So the timing is good. Again, May Cog was successful in obtaining a grant and Leah will comment on some of those sites that we were able to
 But we're happy to, you know, as we as we make the grant, grant comes available later in the year, is to make that available to the public and to all property owners that may be seeking an opportunity to find out more about their sites and move forward. So that's, I think that's the extent of my comments to start with. I'm gonna turn it over to Leah. She has the formal presentation about the MACA Grant. Thank you.
 Don't worry, it's just like three or four slides, so I won't keep you. But Leah Thill, Senior Environmental Planner with MACOG. We're a regional planning organization and we cover those four counties shown on that slide. And I appreciate the opportunity to make you all aware of this funding that we have because it is not completely appropriated to sites. We're hoping to get your input as you're out talking to residents
 business owners, neighborhood organizations, what sites would they like to see this funding spent on to move those properties back to more productive reuse?
 So with that in mind, just want to make you aware that the funding that we have is not all for South Bend. It's being shared over this entire coverage area. And we've been working on this since 2018 when each of the county commissioners formally joined our coalition to be able to share this funding, make it easier to administer and access for all of our communities. Unincorporated areas, small towns included, non-incorporated areas.
 The majority of our funding was spent in Elkhart and Kosciuszko County in Warsaw in the last cycle, but I'll be sharing a bit about how the funding was spent in our first cycle of funding process.
 So far we've worked on three sites in South Bend. Just to give you some context, we did a background report for Clay's Candy when the city was considering acquiring that. And then we did some work over in the near northwest neighborhood, the Ward Baking Company building, if you're familiar with that on the 900 block of Portage.
 The developers, local developers have been rehabilitating that. We helped out. And then right across the street, the 800 block of Portage is just a vacant lot. And the city owns that. And that's a case where it was good news.
 We went in there, we did a round of testing, and it does not appear that there are any significant environmental issues that would prevent that from being put back to residential, for example. So that's good news. On the ward baking company side, they needed to do some lead paint and asbestos remediation.
 and they move forward with their project. So it's really to unlock that environmental uncertainty, remove that barrier and move projects forward. That's what our funding is intended for. Unfortunately, it couldn't be used to clean up or remediate any issues with the limited exception of sometimes removing underground storage tanks to sample underneath and then dispose of them. So we cannot fix all the problems, but we can certainly help get more information to have a more productive conversation about these properties.
 So in our grant application that we submitted to the EPA, which is the federal agency funding our grant, we submitted as a target site here the 1510-1520 West Washington Street. And that site was selected because of the conversations that happened in this room back in 2019. Most of you are new faces to me, but again,
 environmental issues were one of the things that kept being raised and were a concern of a number of council people not wanting to move the permanent supportive housing project forward until some of those questions were addressed. So we just needed more information and more data about that site. The city already owns it. It's been cleared. Compare that to the site next door, Hurwitch Iron and South Bend Range. Those are a little scarier because they have buildings and you can see the cost of demolition and everything on.
 Well, that's already been taken care of on this site. So from our standpoint, it's fairly easy to sample and then actually move that forward since it's been a couple decades since activities have happened on that site, and it's remained stagnant because, by and large, environmental uncertainty. Just wanted to show you a quick snapshot, a historical photo and diagrams.
 that we found along with a picture of the site here. Basically, that shows the area where sampling was conducted in 2000 to 2001 when the tanks were removed. They just sampled the side walls and really were focused on underground storage tanks where there was petroleum products, and it was reported as a spill incident. There was not like a discrete spill, but because contamination was found,
 It went to IDEM and they worked through that process to get closure and remove those tanks. But what's important about this background information is that a no further action letter was then issued by IDEM. And to me, that sounds confusing, just the title of that letter. No further action sounds like a closure letter, a certificate of completion, a green light, maybe to move forward with IDEM.
 any uses, residential or otherwise, but it's helpful to understand that this letter, which was referenced several times in that 2019 meeting, really meant that that specific incident of petroleum being found, that contamination no longer posed an imminent threat to public health or the environment. It was not leaking into the groundwater or going into neighboring properties
 or anything like that, so that the incident could be considered closed, but importantly, contamination still remains on site in the areas described above, shown in the diagram where the tanks were. And activities must be restricted to prevent direct contact, inhalation, and consumption. So that means it couldn't be a soccer field, it couldn't be housing, or otherwise have people on that property.
 So we really need to do a site-wide investigation to understand what about the lead impacts from the nearby Hurwitch Iron. Is that a concern? It was really limited just to petroleum constituents at that time. So we need that data. We have funding to provide that data to you all so you have more complete information and can make informed decisions moving forward about any projects that are brought forward to reuse this city-owned property.
 So we plan the timeline for that is this fall. Starting in October, we can start to use our funding, hopefully come back to you midwinter with that sampling data, and the city will be able to make decisions from there. We can't work on the Hurwitch Iron site nearby because that's in IDEM enforcement.
 And we've not currently explored South Bend Range since I think that's a tax delinquent property at this time. And we work really closely with the city departments to know what are their priorities. And we need to have a plan for moving something from start to finish. And if the city owns something that helps, that's not a requirement. Yeah.
 But that just gives you a little idea of how this is just a really small piece to get it started. But some of those other pieces for demolition cleanup will need to get figured out. But we can help support in that process. So any questions? OK, thank you so much for your presentation for us this evening. At this point, is there any council members that have questions or should we start at one end and just work our way through?
 i do have a couple questions i really appreciate your presentation especially um i do recall that meeting 2019 i think it went to about 12 o'clock or 1 pm and so looking at that site on um west washington the first phase was conducted and a letter was submitted but it was not as clear as it could have been and so what you're saying now the additional monies that you've gotten from the grant
 What portion of those dollars would be used to continue the testing for the West Washington site? We are committed as one of our two priority sites out of the $500,000 we're awarded to do as many rounds of sampling as are needed. So that could be $50,000. It could be $80,000 to $100,000. We're limited to spending no more than $200,000 on any particular site by the EPA. Okay.
 But this is a priority and we've dedicated funding for this site. But we are open to other sites being submitted, smaller sites, corner gas stations. We may be able to connect you to resources for cleanup dollars as well in that case. My second question is, what prompted MACOT to become involved in the actual testing of this site?
 This specific site? Talking with the city of South Bend to understand what their priorities were and what sites, had there been a conversation, a project that didn't move forward and environmental issues were wrapped up in that? If we can untangle that, obviously there's no shortage of sites there.
 in the universe of the South Bend. But our funding can't address everything, but sites where it's it's a specific barrier, not the market, not needing $1,000,000 for demolition, but but just uncertainty. Okay, does answer all your questions. Councilman, we might too soft. Okay now I just wanted to make sure you're good. Okay, Councilwoman Thomas Morgan. Thank you.
 You addressed this in the neighborhood meeting, but can you or Chris speak briefly to what is expected of developers on vacant land and proposing new development? Sure. I think if your interest is in a site that has a history of commercial or industrial use,
 where there are what they call ERCs or environmental recognized conditions. I think it's just part of any playbook as a developer to have to know, do your due diligence and do what we call in this assessment, some of your bread and butter items are your phase one assessment.
 Which is basically just looking at the history of the property, looking at all the uses that have been present on the property. If you ever look at one of those documents, it's probably like this big, but most of it is the research involved. So it's looking at maps, whether they be Sanborn maps or just other aerial photos that are available from the time to sort of confirm what can be in the site. And then if the...
 the end, I guess the end game of any endpoint of any of those assessments in that phase one tell you that there is something that needs further study. And again, this is all just by visual. If you see, you know, if there's in this case, I mean we're talking about a grass lot, but if you see anything like stains on the concrete, if you see items piled up on the site, if you see
 evidence that other evidence that points to the needs to be a need to sample, then it moves on to a phase two assessment. So where a phase one is fairly standard, phase twos can range like Leah mentioned that when you're looking for specific items that might be present on the site. So you can do soil sampling, groundwater sampling, soil
 and other investigation that leads you really up. These grants can provide assistance right up, including a remediation plan or cleanup plan, right up until actual DAO is provided for cleanup, which would be via other resources. So there's a wide range. So anyone that's
 seeking to develop these sites, I think the key is to have to do the appropriate due diligence prior to taking ownership of the site. And I think especially so if you're engaging a financial institution, so that you need to find resources, I think to sort of assume this part and parcel with any transaction when it comes to these type of sites.
 And I would emphasize adding to what Chris said, the city doesn't need to be involved at all necessarily in the use of this funding. So you have one third party and another third party doing a property transaction and it's a gas station. We'd love to help protect the new owner from walking into a situation where they might be seen by regulators as a gas station.
 potentially responsible party and then be in enforcement and be required to clean it up, not having known what they were walking into. So we can help, you know, any private developers that would like to talk about our funding does not need to come from the city submitting a site. If you go to www.macog.com slash brownfields.html, there's a sites of interest form that anyone can submit. Thank you.
 Councilman Lee? How long does it take for you guys to do the testing and get results back? It can really vary, but it can take about three months to get the report in hand. There have been labor shortages and delays just in getting results back from the laboratory. So it'll be at least winter, December, January before we'll be back with that. And is there a certain contaminant that we're finding in our soil?
 It really varies. Might be arsenic and lead just because of background levels of arsenic or lead just being in gasoline, lead paint, things like that. Those are pretty common. Sometimes there are chlorinated solvents from dry cleaners or other industrial things. We hope not to find things in groundwater because it can be a little trickier to clean up and also pose a vapor intrusion risk potentially, but those are all considerations before
 redevelopment can move forward. Idem will work very closely with the developer to make sure what the levels are that there's not risk based on the intended reuse in those plans, so they'll they'll make sure that that happens appropriately. Thank you. Councilman Warner questions come back. Councilman Notewax, Councilwoman Hammond. Can either of you tell us if these properties being mentioned are posing any threat?
 to neighboring residents, perhaps children playing in the area, those types of things.
 In the case of the vacant properties in the 1500 block of West Washington, the evidence from the data on the petroleum contamination that was found was that it was not posing a threat to the nearby. There aren't many residents close by, but that it was not posing a threat. But no data has been collected on site, to my knowledge, to determine whether there could be other things there.
 so that's why we felt we needed to collect that data there has been sampling as it pertains to herwich iron to look at lead levels in the surrounding homes and that's taken place at different points
 But unfortunately, there wasn't a clear pattern. You would expect to see really high levels of lead in the homes closest and have it go down, but it was kind of all over the place just because we have a number of different sources. So they couldn't conclusively tie it to any specific property. And actually Hurwitz-Iron was at one time listed to be on the national priorities list, which is like the superfund list, but they couldn't conclusively say it was from that site that we have lead in our neighborhoods because it comes from all over.
 Were there other sites in particular you were wondering about? That whole Washington area. My next question would be, is there any way of restricting access to that area until we know what the potential harms could be? Well, if we talk about the larger area surrounding the 1500 block, I mean, some of these are private properties, of course. Regarding the 1500 block?
 i don't know if there's been it's something to take into consideration i don't think we've we've seen like leah said anything definitive um that that tells us
 that there's a hazard there but um i think we that's why we see this as a priority so it'll be the one amongst the first things that we work on in this grant starting october 1st is start to to get you know fill in some of a lot of the gaps that we have in data um starting with that phase one moving to a phase two so it could be a matter of of months before we can get started
 But if we do find, for example, really high levels of lead that are above like a recreational level, that would be safe. And you see, oh, there's children that are playing soccer. One of the city's continuing obligations as an owner would be to put up a fence or some other barrier to restrict access. If we found that, I think that would be something that that item would expect once they review that report. So but right now we have no evidence to suggest that it's more exploratory just to rule it out.
 before anything proceeds. So currently we don't know and there is a window or a gap of time prior to the results of the testing coming back. Wouldn't it be prudent to take the safer course? And I would defer to the city if the city wants to put up the fence. It's not been fenced for a long time, but. We appreciate the concern. We can take that under advisement. That's a good point. Thank you. Councilman Davis.
 When was the last time those facilities were under use? They were like active. Like 1990 something when the tanks were removed was like 2001. No, no, no. I don't mean it like that. I mean, as far as people in there working, how long has it been since somebody was actually in there producing some sort of manufactured good that they were selling on the open market?
 are you specifically talking about the the oil express site at 15 10 15 20. about the whole entire area over there in the second district just across the street from frankie's barbecue you have like two or three factories over there you have one on the end of cherry street sure and then you have those two that's kind of like stuck inside of that sure yeah circle avenue will probably be the address am i correct is that circle avenue yeah i think the the
 South Bend Range is on Cherry Street, and Circle Avenue would contain Hurwitch Iron. Yeah, the question still stands. Sure. I don't have the best timeline. I know that the South Bend Range S-Can, that closed 35 years ago. I don't have a track of what's, all the activity's been happening in that building since. I think for Hurwitch Iron, it's probably been...
 two decades at least since there's been any any organized activity that's just based on research documents that probably and I have accessed we can we can follow up the reports that we have with detail well it doesn't really have a bearing on what I'm going to say or not sure but it does so I should say that it does
 What I'm getting at is that the level of apathy as it relates to these areas. We just had a whole entire presentation from the administration talking about the AARP or ARP funds from the federal government and how those monies were introduced to high COVID areas.
 And then we had Ms. Charlotte Pfeiffer, who actually is right down the street from what we're talking about, directly down the street. And she mentioned that many of these same dollars were to go to areas that needed to support the development, et cetera, clean up perhaps. And she really gave a compelling argument about what happens on the west of the river versus the east of the river conversation.
 She also pointed out that many of the major projects and things that people are enjoying are not necessarily going to areas where the population, to the darker hue populations, which she was really getting at. She even went on to talk about how the Howard Park has received over a $50 million investment. And then we turn around and we spend...
 Or we are celebrating the win of $15 million for a new community center. And she said that's not even comparable. You can't even. So the reason why I asked that question, the reason I'm bringing it up, the reason why I'm repeating everything that was said earlier, is the fact that there is not a lot of energy left.
 To to to suggest that we will even be interested in changing the way these environments look and how they've been looking. That's looked the same way my entire life. And I can say that 42 before you three next month, actually. And so I'm not sure what's going to happen.
 I hope something does happen that's good, right? We're dealing with the situation over at Bex Lake, right? And we're talking about, you know, the hill is not trash. It's not a natural hill. It's got to be something in there. I mean, it has to be something in there. It just continues to just reinsert itself about the environmental racism that's taking place in this city. And it's disgusting.
 And there is really no political will. There's no empathy for the members of this community that live in those areas. The idea of a simple fence going around it is like kind of like we'll kind of look at it. No, a fence needs to go over there. Just like when we're tearing down houses with Pete, they weren't securing the property sites properly.
 The asbestos that was coming from the homes was going into the air. They were tearing down Bendix Corporation. Still tearing it down. Asbestos and everything else is going into the air. They even had a fan blowing it. Somebody has to have a heart somewhere. Thank you for your comments, Councilman Davis. I don't have anything further to add than what the rest of my colleagues have already said. I thank you for coming for the presentation before us this evening to give us an update on
 about the activities going on in the areas of our city that have brownfields. I guess I do have one question. Once you identify those, was all of those areas that you're in now were part of the neighborhood plan that was before us, correct? And so that means once those are identified and remediated, that plan would be able to proceed in the manner that was, you know, I guess that was wanted by the residents there through dialogue and meetings and...
 Sure, certainly it's a corner piece of the plan. We went through that process. I mean, the site in the 1500 block, which is under complete city control, I think we have the opportunity to move on that quickly. But if we can bring attention to the other sites,
 You know, I think the the site at Hurwitch Iron is is is definitely under the attention of IDEM and if you know, I think being at the neighborhood meeting we heard this and I'm hearing it from from the council members tonight. I think we I mean these these sites they need to be in the needs to be inequality and how we can try to address these sites and you know it's it's.
 you know the timing is is unfortunate as far as the weight but um i think uh there's a again trying to address brownfields a lot of us is just dealing with unknowns and if we can start to lift some of those unknowns um in the over the course of this grant um that helps take sort of lift some of the some of the depression of the area um and sort of what what's the what's the future you know bring it bring a more positive future outlook
 uh to that area that's and i think the the plan was meant to to to accentuate that so okay well thank you very much i think that everyone had an opportunity to ask their questions i would like to say thank you so much for just one more really it's it's two questions councilman davis and you elaborate i let you really elaborate on more than the two questions
 I didn't ask two questions. I asked one question. I talked about the history of the area. I didn't ask two questions. Why do you keep doing this to me? Every time I open my mouth, it's always like this thing that you do. It's like Henry's not allowed to talk. I am.
 When Ann Collado worked for the city of South Bend, I remember us approving Brownfield at the Brownfield branch. It was like a collection of them. It was during the time that we were tearing down the Studebaker, the South Bend Lath Building. I think you remember that because you were here, too. I was like, wow, we were here together. What gave her the ability to collect so many Brownfield grants at one time like that? I mean, she was able to produce several.
 I think those resources haven't changed, and as we're moving on to a new chapter, whether that be with Drury's or some of these other larger sites, I think that opportunity is still there. So those conditions are still present to do that, to tap into what IDEM or the EPA has available.
 i'll speak to that the epa recently expanded the size of their cleanup grants from i believe 500 000 to 5 million don't quote me on that exactly but it's in the millions so 500 000 does not get you very far at all five million now we're talking so um to the extent that we were able to find sites that would be eligible for cleanup grants we could support the city just like we will be i'll be helping write grants for the city of elkhart to try to get actual cleanup dollars which start to make a difference
 in making the sites safe. Can TIF money be used to do that? Can TIF money be used to do that? To clean up sites? I believe so. Thank you. It's been done. Thank you. So there are resources. Oh, we have them. I'm sure we do. So are you finished? I'm done. Thank you so much. I'm done. You're very welcome. Thank you so much for your presentation. Thank you. Okay.
 So I'd like to move on here. For any members that are here and present, I'm going to go through a couple bills in case you're waiting to hear these that have been tabled. One of them will be bill number 2236 that was tabled. They have the, okay. That was under health and public safety, bill number 2236. The other one would be bill number 1622, bill number 1722.
 Bill number 2232 and bill number 3222. Those bills were all tabled either indefinitely or tabled with a date set in a future date. So if you're here to see those bills, they will not be presented here tonight. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into or to revolve into the committee of the whole. It's been moved and seconded.
 Clerk Jones, or can we do it all? Yeah, we can do that. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Committee of the hold is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading in public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report.
 The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, could you give Bill 23-22 a second reading? 23-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 223 North Lafayette Boulevard, Councilman and District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill number 2322 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation.
 Is a petitioner present and I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening, Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the state of South Bend. The office is located on the 14th floor of this building. The petition for 223 North Lafayette is to allow for an auto detailing or vehicle service site under the ordinance.
 The existing building is being retrofitted to allow for this use, which happens completely inside the building. And so everything they're doing will fit in terms of the development standards of the zoning ordinance. They just need approval of the use itself. This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. The petitioner is here as well. Would he like to say anything?
 Sure, my name is Randy Moore, addresses 1509 Berkshire Drive, South Bend, IN 46614. I am the owner of Deluxe Detail, which currently rents the the building. We've been in there since last August, where we've done a ton of renovations on the interior of the building, and we have hopes to do a lot of exterior renovations in the future.
 We've been in business for a little over three years now. Now we're considered probably one of the third largest detail shops in the South Bend Elkhart regional area in terms of physical size and sales. I myself grew up in South Bend and have been around downtown all my life. This building has a lot of car history, has been used for cars for pretty much all of its life. So we're really excited to be in this space and continue to use it in a different way and modify the building as well to a newer standard.
 Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? None. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 23-22? There's no one in the virtual public that's expressing the interest to speak in favor of Bill 23-22. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one from the virtual audience wishing to speak in opposition as well.
 Council members, is there anyone that would like to make any statements or anything? Nope. I would just like to say thank you for investing in the first district and continue to do water detailing in our city and continue to preserve one of our historical buildings. So thank you very much. Thank you. All right. I will now entertain a motion for Bill 23-22. Thank you.
 I move that bill 2322 go to the full council for passage. Second. Clerk Jones, will you take the roll, please? Yes. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Eight ayes. Okay. All right. All right.
 Bill 23-20 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, will you give a second reading to 24-22? 24-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1430 Mishawaka Avenue, Councilman and District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. This bill came before zoning and annexation this afternoon. And due to the absence of the petitioner, I have the right bill, correct? We brought that forward with no recommendation.
 Is the petitioner present? I suggest that your name and address and share his key points regarding the builders before us. Sure, we have the petitioner here with us today. This is Angela Smith from the City of South Bend zoning administrator. The property here is a long standing auto use. This is one of those corner gas stations that Chris mentioned earlier that was all over the City of South Bend and the pumps have since been removed, but the building itself has remained and has operated off and on over the years as a vehicle repair.
 The building is set empty for some time and now the petitioner would like to reestablish the uses auto repair, which requires a special exception under the zoning district. During that time, they will be working with us to help bring the site up to the current standards of development. This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation and the petitioner is present. All right. Mr. Petitioner, how are you?
 Please state your name and address. Hi, good evening. My name is Jamie Diaz. The address is 1430 Mishawaka Avenue. And all I got to say is I would like to open up the place if possible. If not, I just got to move on and look for something else. But since it's empty for a while and it's suitable for minor auto repair, it's already established. That's what I was just giving a shot. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner?
 If none, at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 24-22? There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing for Bill 24-22 is closed. Council members, if you'd like to make any statements.
 i will now entertain a motion thank you for your investment in the city oh sorry sorry i'd like to make a motion then to send bill 24 22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation second all right can we do this by acclamation
 Oh, OK. All right. All right. Well, Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Nate Ives. All right.
 Bill 24-22 will go to the council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give us a second reading for bill number 31-22? 31-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 914 Sherman Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Likewise, 3122 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the committee, the whole, with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Good evening, Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator from the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of this building. This site is a new build. It's a vacant property in the near Northwest neighborhood. And the near Northwest organization is working on constructing a new duplex on what is currently a vacant lot. There's two adjacent lots in which they'll be looking at doing some single family development as well.
 because this is in a zoning district where duplex requires a special exception. We were before you here this evening, and this comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with favorable recommendation.
 The petitioner may be online. Yes, I'm here. This is Kathy Shute at Near Northwest Neighborhood, address 1007 Portage Avenue. Angela summed up the project really well. These will be two two-bedroom units that will be for rent at income-restricted rates. And I'm happy to answer any questions. Council members, do you have any questions? Yes.
 If not, we'll go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 31-22? There is no one from the public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 31-22. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the.
 Public hearing portion for Bill 31-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill? I just want to say thank you to the neighborhood organization and Ms. Kathy Shuth. It's really exciting to see new housing being built on vacant land.
 Anyone else? Yes. Councilwoman. Ditto to that. And this is really heavy lifting for a neighborhood association. It's very impressive to see what's happening in this area. And so, again, thank you. Anyone else? Thank you. Ms. White says thank you. Thank you.
 The revitalization was great. You know, when neighborhoods and others work collaboratively together, you see all the results, and we know that there is such a need for affordable housing, be it duplexes or apartments within our community. So thank you for your continued work and support of this effort.
 And I would just have to say that as the representative of the first district, that I am so proud that we're, that the NNN is building houses and,
 the policies and things that the administration has been putting forward is helping to spur more of that and um a duplex um in this area and affordable housing is so important and we need it we need as much as we possibly can so again uh thank you for your hard work thank you all right uh i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 3122.
 i move to send bill 3122 to the full council with a favorable recommendation second all right clerk jones it's been the motion is there's been a motion and has been seconded clerk jones please call the world council member wax aye council member white aye council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president niskowski aye council member davis
 hi council member lee hi council member warner hi eight eyes all right um bill number 3122 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation clerk jones will you re bill will you give sec a second reading to 33-22
 3322 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1908 east calvert street councilmanic district number three in the city of south bend indiana 33. is there a committee report
 oh i think there was some 32 was tabled until september that's what that's 32 third 32 22 was tabled but i don't think that's what you had i read no we read 33 22 huh we read 33-22 yeah okay i'm good all right i'm trying to make sure do you want the committee report yes are we good yes
 Bill 3322 yet again came before zoning and annexation. We were busy, busy this afternoon. And it comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present? This has been the Angela Show. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill before us.
 Angela Smith zoning administrator for the city of South Ben with offices located on the 14th floor. This like the previous one is for a duplex. Only in this instance 1908 Calvert is for an existing residential structure. The structure at some point was converted to a duplex and that there's two kitchens, two living areas and everything that would make it a duplex, including two utility meters and everything. However, we were unable to verify that that was ever legally converted and that
 it had remained in continuous use to keep its grandfather again. The petitioner here this evening is looking to finish that process and legalize it so they can move forward in a legal nature. This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation, and the petitioner is here. All right. Let's hear from the petitioner.
 Thank you for your time. We acquired the property owner at 1908 East Calvert. I acquired this property because it was sectioned off as a duplex. The idea was that I could dwell in the residence upstairs and my mother's downstairs so I can be able to just take care of her. The property has its
 It's full featured, like it has a full kitchen and bath upstairs and full kitchen and bath downstairs. It does come with separate utility builds for gas and electric. And we're looking to, you know, just finish up work on it and keep improving, you know, the look and feel of, you know, this area there in Calvert. Okay.
 anything to add it's my mother all right mom you have anything you want to say too
 Not at the moment. Alright, well thank you very much. Council members, we heard this in committee. Sorry, I'm just going to add one thing. I wanted to thank the petitioner for their patience. They had filed for a special exception in 2019 under the Area Plan Commission and the the petition lapsed and didn't quite make it through. So I know they were caught off guard. They've been great to work with. Kind of bring this up to conformance so. Yep, anything from the Council members?
 Yes. Yes. Thank you. Just to say thank you for your patience and working with us through this. And I'm glad to see the development in the neighborhood. Thank you for your investment and for taking care of your mom. It's wonderful. Thanks. I'm looking forward to anybody else. All right. At this time, we're going to go to the public hearing portion.
 Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 33-22? There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 33-22. All right. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 33-22. And at this point, the public hearing on Bill 33-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements?
 just to continue with the trend thank you for working on this home and improving city of south bend all right i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 33-22 i'd like to make a motion that bill 3322 go to the fault council with a favorable recommendation second
 All right. There is a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Watts? Aye. Eight ayes. All right.
 Bill 35-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. 33. I'm sorry. I'm moving ahead. 33-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give a second reading to Bill 35-22?
 35-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, vacating the following described property, North South Alley between Victoria Street and East West Alley. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, this was heard today in, gosh, where the heck was I? Vacation. Public Works and Property Vacation, and it was given a favorable recommendation. Thank you. All right.
 Ms. Angela, we don't have to ask you. It's all a blur. I don't know how many times I have to say it, but I'll just say it one more time. Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator with offices on the 14th floor of this building. So the petition in front of you this evening is to vacate kind of this L-shaped alley that comes off.
 south off the east-west alley and connects into Victoria Street. This is part of a larger development that the council saw recently to rezone for a gas station and convenience store. As such, they would be using the current east-west alley to access the property
 The building straddles this existing alley, and therefore it needs to be vacated. And once the development is completed, there will also be improvements to Victoria Street. The Board of Public Works, I believe, sent this with a favorable recommendation. The petitioner is here. All right. Let's hear from the petitioner. Hi there. Steve Ruby at Marsh Consulting, 315 West Jefferson, South Bend, Indiana, representing the petitioner, Mandip Singh.
 This was part of a bigger project, as mentioned from Angela, to allow for a C store convenience store at this location. The petitioner at the time of petition was filed just to clarify it was under previous ownership. Two different pieces that has now since been sold to the actual C store owner now, so I want to clarify that. That was a question that come up.
 earlier, but it now is owned both sides of the alleyway by the same owner who is looking to build this convenience store, and they are requesting that this alleyway between this area be vacated so that allow for that use. And as Angela mentioned, improvements to Victoria and that site will be done as part of this project. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioners? If not, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill number 35-22? There is no one from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 35-22. Is there anyone looking to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 35-22. Council members, would you like to make any statements? If none...
 If none, Clerk Jones, I will now entertain a motion. Motion to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Okay. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Thank you.
 Bill number 35-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 37-22 a second reading? 37-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds of $46,080,405 from the American Rescue Plan Fund number 263. Right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. 3722 was heard in personal and finance today, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. The petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Thank you, Councilmember Lee.
 I will briefly run through the same presentation that we went through in committee this afternoon, maybe not go into quite as much detail since everyone was there. Before I get started, just be it's not directly germane to this bill, but it's now been brought up twice just to correct the record.
 $54 million was not the amount spent on Howard Park. $18 million wasn't the amount spent on Howard Park. That might've come from $57 million was the total amount of the My SP Parks and Trenches Initiative, which were parks all across the city. So as I said, this was not directly related to the bill, but I just wanted to make sure that that was correct on the record.
 So regarding the bill 3722, what this does is this appropriates the ARP funding or a portion of the ARP funding for an allowable use of the ARP funds, which is to replace lost public sector revenue. So this is directly from the Department of the Treasury's website on the allowable use of ARP funds. And the first allowable use that they that they list is to that to replace that.
 revenue up to the amount of the revenue lost during the pandemic. So as we went through in committee this afternoon,
 The question of why we would want to use revenue replacement or this revenue loss replacement is really to increase flexibility. So part of our plan to utilize the American Rescue Plan funding is to use this revenue replacement, satisfy the Treasury Department requirements immediately, bring the dollars from the ARP fund into the general fund, and then have an increased amount of flexibility on what those dollars can be used for.
 um because we will be satisfying the treasury department requirements by utilizing this route of revenue replacement uh we then have more flexibility on how those funds can be used when those funds can be used um and more in line with local control and the administration and council's priorities that we've talked through
 What this fund would do is appropriate funding to pay for expenditures that are normally paid for from the general fund. As Jeff Rao from Baker Tilly went through earlier in committee, there are certain things that this funding cannot be used to pay for,
 But things like police and fire expenditures that are normally paid for from the general fund salaries for police and fire can be used to the revenue replacement funds can be used to pay for those things directly out of the ARP fund, which then frees up the money in the general fund to to use for what we call the ARP related budget.
 What this bill does not do is it does not change that ARP-related budget. So it does not change the strategic priorities in the programs that we talked about during the 2022 budget process, nor does it remove Council's role in appropriating those funds. So Council is still required to approve the appropriations that are proposed by the administration in order to allow the spending of any funding across the board.
 the city, regardless of whether that funding is in the general fund or in the ARP fund. When I talk about the ARP-related budget and the fact that this bill does not change the ARP-related budget, this is what I am referring to. This slide was shown many times during the 2022 budget discussions. And just to clarify, this might have been what you were talking about earlier, Councilmember White, during committee meeting.
 The only change on this slide to what was shown during the 2022 budget process is under safe community for everyone. The last the last item on there is ARP premium pay. That was not discussed during the 2022 budget process because that was actually appropriated in 2022 in January or February of this year. So that's $2 million that was not discussed during the budget process, but was appropriated subsequent to the budget approval by council.
 So this is the ARP related budget. And as I said, the spending on these programs is not changed by this bill 3722. Our total award from the ARP was $58.9 million. And as you can see down there in the lower right corner, the total appropriated budget for these dollars is just over $58 million.
 So, because I say that this bill does not change that plan spending, the question is, what does it do? The answer is that, as I said earlier, it frees up the money in the general fund to pay for those programs. So,
 We have multiple funds in the city. Two of those funds are the general fund in the ARP fund. We received $58.9 million from the federal government into the ARP fund, but when we budgeted the spending on those programs that I just had up on the screen we plan to spend from both the general fund and the ARP fund. And as you can see on the screen,
 Most of the plan spending was actually coming, planned to come from the general fund, $45 million of the plan, $58 million of the budgeted $58 million. The reason why we planned it that way is because we expressly anticipated using this revenue replacement fund
 or revenue replacement use to free up funds in the general fund in order to pay for those strategic priorities. So that's what this bill 3722 actually does, is it moves expenses from the general fund to the ARP fund, frees up $46 million in the general fund, which we can then use on the strategic priorities in the ARP related budget.
 Again, as we talked about in committee, we are moving on these priorities, so not only does this this bill not change this plan, it we are actually already in the process of implementing many of these priorities and so you can see up on the screen.
 Again, the first column being the total budget for each one of these programs, but then a number of different columns that show where we are in the process of implementing these things. So a column for money that has been spent, meaning the money has actually gone out the door to its intended recipient or encumbered, meaning we have a contract in place that the money will be spent in short order. And then another column for committed capital projects where.
 We may not have a full contract in place yet, but we are in specific conversations around what this money will be used for. And we've committed to use these things for capital projects, which in general, regardless of the funding source, just take a long time to put together and have a long lead time. And so we want to make sure we commit those funds for those capital projects up front.
 If you add those two columns together of spent and encumbered and then capital projects that may not be encumbered yet but are committed, we have $37.6 million of our total award of $58.9 million is either spent or committed as of last week when I put this together.
 The last thing on here is how did I get to the $46 million that's in the bill? I went through it in a lot of detail in committee, and so happy to do that again. It is here as an appendix as well if you want to walk through step by step. But the answer is that there's a four-step calculation that the federal government prescribes for us that we went through. Essentially, what you do is you compare your 
 base year revenue, which is the first year or the last year prior to the pandemic, which for us was a calendar year 2019. And you add 5.2% to that each year.
 which the federal government calls counterfactual revenue, which is essentially an estimate of what would your revenue have been had the pandemic not occurred. You then compare that counterfactual revenue to your actual revenue in each year, and you calculate your total reduction in revenue. For the city, it was just over $55 million is what we calculated for our first two calculation points.
 In terms of that, so that $55 million is the total possible amount of revenue replacement that we could request or that we could utilize from our total award of $58.9 million.
 In terms of why it's $46 million and not $55 million, as that graphic earlier showed, there are a number of programs that are intended to be spent directly from the ARP fund number 263. So those funds would be spent directly from the ARP fund, and we would not utilize those funds on revenue replacement. And the $46.8 million is instead the amount of money that we intend to spend from the general fund.
 So if you could take our total award plus some interest earnings and then subtract out the two programs that are intended to be spent directly from the ARP fund, which is the Dream Center and the ARP premium pay. That's how you get the 46 point of close to forty six point one million dollars. So with that, I am happy to take any questions from Council. Jeff Rowe from Baker Tilly is was kind enough to stick around as well. If there's any questions for him, I'm sure he'd be happy to answer as well. Thank you.
 All right, Council members, are there any questions? I think we all asked all our questions. Okay, Councilwoman Hammond. Mr. Parker, you just went through, and correct me if I'm wrong, 37-plus million have been designated and or spent. Too far. Yes, 37.6 million have been spent or committed. Committed. Yes. And committed.
 We have a total of 58 million, so can we assume that 20 million of this has not yet been designated spent?
 So the remainder up to the 58 million, just over $58 million that's been budgeted, have been budgeted and so allocated to various things that like home repair assistance, home buying assistance, we just haven't necessarily started the process of spending that money. We haven't encumbered that money or specifically said, this is exactly how we're going to spend it. We may be working towards that.
 and anything that's not in one of those columns, that doesn't mean we're not working on it. It just means that we haven't necessarily, like I said, this is exactly what this is gonna be spent on and how it's gonna be spent. But it is earmarked. It is earmarked for those programs. So there's not this big pool of money still out there waiting, correct? That's correct, yes. So it can't be changed obviously, but it is currently, this is the plan that we're working towards. Okay, second question.
 Could you please remind me, us, what the public safety tech projects is, what's included in that?
 Sure, yeah. So I think that that is a sort of consistently evolving question. What we had talked about during the 2022 budget process was things like incentivizing the use of security cameras for businesses and residences to help increase the sense of security for people. One of the things that we're looking at now is expanding our crime center and so having better access to data about crime and.
 and and maybe even looking at a real-time crime center type of uh situation so those are some of the things that we're looking at right now but as you can see uh only a small portion of that those dollars have actually been committed at this point so there's a lot of conversations looking towards that um but uh but uh still more to come on that so the 1.5 is not that's not the complete amount
 The 1.5 is the budget for it, and so so far of that budget we have spent or encumbered 2223. Oh, I see. I see. Forgive me. Thank you. Yep. Anyone else? Is this as far as the question goes? So does this really just satisfies the Treasury requirement, right? That's correct. Yes. Okay. And so none of these funds can be moved without Council approval.
 That's right. And we have already approved all of these funds prior. I just want to make that clear to the public because I think there is some misunderstanding. That's correct. So this, what is up on the screen now is what has been approved by council. In order to change from this, that would take another action by council in order to approve that. Thank you, Chair. Yes. Mr. Parker, is it possible to make this PowerPoint available to the public? Yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you.
 All right. Sure. Yes, may I? What do you think about community benefit agreements? I'm not familiar with what that is, so I can't comment. OK, so like we have all these projects and it appears that you the administration has an idea of what he wants to do with these projects. A community benefit agreement will require the city to have.
 percentages that are in line with usually the population of people or an agreed upon amount so that people that live in those areas can actually collect some of the dollars that's being spent in that area. So for instance, if there's a construction project that's taking place in the middle of this room, we will require the city to employ 15% of people that are in the room. So what I was asking you
 You said you didn't know, so I'll explain it to you. Where I'm going with this is that when you guys come back, because you will be coming back a lot, actually, we need to be able to produce results for people that live in this local area. We can't just keep spending money, spending money, spending money, and we're not collecting the money back. And so I'm asking you for your sensitivity to that. I don't know if that's an offline discussion between you and I.
 or is that a discussion i want to build this file for paying some sort of cost to some type of idea but me paying attention to these projects and everything else that has been going on it doesn't serve the the greater interest of the people that were impacted by colbit and i said that earlier so i'm still tapping at this door trying to get in so some of those dollars have to go to you
 the impoverished community, the people that were impacted by COVID by, you know, at a higher level than most communities. It has to go to some Black people. It has to happen. And the reason why it has to happen is because the reason why the money is here is because those people were impacted by COVID at a high level. So when we're talking about the Dream Center, there needs to be a community of benefits for the green mill there.
 I don't know who gets the projects, but we have to make sure people that when that 10 million or 20 million, whatever the number is, gets spent. Members of the public that live in that area, they can get a job. So I don't know if there was a question, but I can definitely follow up with the engineering department and as well as VPA. No, I should be a little bit more sensitive to that. So as the conversation continues to roll over, like if a bill comes down the next council, because we don't have the first reading next month.
 Right. So we need to have that conversation before the bill is filed so we can start working at this together rather than we as a knee jerk reaction. Then somebody said, well, did you talk to the department here? And then we get nowhere with it. Right. I want to have that conversation when you're getting ready to file the bill. Thank you. Can I ask one more question, Chair? Real quickly. Very quickly. I promise. There was a public comment regarding quarterly reports
 Is that something that we can have the administration commit to so that we're aware of what's happening with the ARP money and the plan?
 Yes, so we are always happy to come back in and speak with Council quarterly. However often Council would like to invite us back to discuss this, whether it's in committee to the full Council, really, however often. This report, I will just share that this report that you're seeing on the screen, we are very sensitive to the need to very closely track this spending.
 And this is a report that I can generate at the touch of a button. So if you or any other citizen wants, you know, three o'clock on a Friday afternoon wants to know how much money we've spent to date on the ARP funds, that that is a report that we built into our financial system. And so I'm very happy to come back as often and talk about what's going on as often as council would like to.
 I believe you. You responded to me at 9 30 yet last night, so you seem to always be on, so thank you. All right. At this time, we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 37-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 37-22. All right. Is there someone in the... All right.
 You're here to speak in favor? Against. Okay. We haven't got. Yeah, she's going to ask it next. All right. All right. Clerk Jones, is there anyone here to speak in opposition? We have one person here that's wishing to speak in opposition. Good evening. My name is Dr. Barbara Williams, and I've been a resident of South Bend, mainly living in the north. In the north.
 West Triangle area. Okay. My medical specialty is internal medicine and I've practiced in South Bend since 1989. Prior to going to medical school, I worked in health planning facilities in Northern one-third of Indiana. We studied health status and planned for and approved all new capital expenditures for healthcare facilities in that area.
 The pandemic has unmasked multiple inequities in health status and access to medical services in our population. These inequities must be addressed in a public forum and a public sector. I lost the microphone. Now it's back.
 What we have learned since 1980 when I left health planning to go to medical school are the following. Health is not simply a result of medical facilities or access to medical care. Affordable housing, food deserts, and jobs and recreational facilities located near that affordable housing has a lot to do with health status.
 I urge you to appropriate additional dollars of the American Rescue Plan for federally funds to be spent addressing affordable housing in our beloved city, enticing grocery stores and produce markets to locate near that affordable housing.
 and encouraging jobs and recreational facilities to be near that affordable housing. I think this has been addressed not to my satisfaction or that of many of us in the medical community. Thank you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else that likes to speak in opposition? There's no one else virtually that is expressing the interest to speak in opposition of Bill 3722.
 council members would you like to make any statements regarding bill 37-22 if not i will entertain a motion um just to respond to the comment um i would have to say for my purposes that the quarterly report and making sure that those dollars are being spent in the areas that we are prioritizing is a way of us trying to keep an eye on on how that is spent and where it
 all right anyone else i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 37-22 move to send to the full council with the favorable recommendation no second all right clerk don't please call the role council member hammond aye vice president niskowski aye council member davis nay council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax aye
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 37-22 will be sent to the council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. You can call by acumen. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Those that oppose? Motion carries.
 Okay, the regular meeting is reconvened. The full council is back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading. An action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. So, Clerk Jones, could you please give bill  oh, I'm sorry. I had to revise this. So, 1622, that one was tabled, so we won't be hearing that bill this evening. 1722 was tabled. We will not be hearing that bill this evening.
 So that brings us to Bill 2322. So, Clerk Jones, could you please give a third reading to Bill 23-22? 2322, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 223 North Lafayette Boulevard, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding the bill? This bill comes from the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 23-22. For the passage of Bill 17-22. Sorry, 23-22. Second. Okay, there's been a motion, and it's been duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll? Yes. Yes.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 23-22 has passed. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 24-22 a third reading?
 2422, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1430 Mishawaka Avenue, Councilman of District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Yes. Bill 24-22 comes from the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you so much. I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 24-22. I'd like to move for passage. Second. It's been moved and duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll? Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you.
 We are now going to move to, I believe, Bill 3122. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 3122 a third reading? 3122, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 914 Sherman Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 3122? Yes. 3122 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 31-22. I move for passage. Second. 3122 has been duly moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Councilmember Lee? Aye. Thank you.
 council member warner council member watts council member white council member tomas morgan council member hammond vice president ms goski council member davis eight eyes thank you uh bill 3222 was tabled until september 12th i believe that brings us to bill number 33-22
 so clerk jones could you please give 33-22 a third reading 33 22 third reading on an ordinance of the common council the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1908 east calvert street councilmanic district number three in the city of south bend indiana
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 33-22? Yes, 33-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much. I would like to now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Move for passage. Second. The bill has been duly moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll? Councilmember Warner? Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 33-22 has passed. Moving on, Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 35-22 a third reading?
 3522, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, vacating the following described property, north side alley between Victoria Street and East West Alley. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 3522? Yes. Bill 35-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding Bill 3522.
 Move for passage of Bill 35-22. Sorry, second. Okay, there's been a motion. It's been duly seconded to move Bill 35-22. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 3522 has passed. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 37-22 a third reading? 3722, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds of $46,080,405 from the American Rescue Plan.
 Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 37-22? Yes, Bill 37-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 37-22. I'd like to move Bill 37-22 for passage. Second.
 It's been a motion made for passage and duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 37-22 has passed. We're going to move on to resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions.
 The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given. This also requires a public hearing. Um...
 I'm going to go ahead and read the public portion part. So during the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you give your name and address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by opposition, and then a five minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill.
 So going through our resolutions, Bill 2232 was tabled. Bill 2236 was tabled. So that brings us to resolution 22-37. Make sure that I didn't miss anything there. Okay. So Clerk Jones, could you please give resolution 22 or bill number 2237 a reading? Yes.
 2237, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for a waiver of noncompliance regarding the vacant building abatement for 3602 sample LLC.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Tomas Morgan, is there a committee report? Yes. Bill 2237 came to Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the council with a favorable recommendation. Okay. Thank you. And for the petitioner, please state your name and address for the record. Good evening again, council members. Caleb Bauer, Acting Executive Director of the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. The first bill before you is a waiver of noncompliance.
 for C flow. It is in their facility on Sample Street. We're requesting the waiver waiver for 2020 2021 and 2022. For two years of failure to submit forms 322 to the St. Joseph auditor, St. Joseph County Auditor's Office, and then a late submission this year, the correct forms have now been filed, and property taxes are up to date.
 for the property. The company has exceeded their original investment goal and significantly surpassed their original job creation commitment as a part of the abatement. And Zach Grossi from C-Flow is also here representing the petitioner.
 hi i'm zach rossi uh i work with cflow our office is located at 3602 west sample street i'd like to thank you all for your attention today um i guess i can just go into a little bit um we moved here from chicago two years ago and uh back then we promised that we were gonna bring six people and 12 people eventually and luckily uh we've
 had some really good growth here the city has been great to us and everything's worked out well so we've added uh you know almost 50 more jobs than we anticipated um but it seems that we forgot to send our uh one of the forms to the county auditor uh so i'd ask for your apologies for that okay is there anything else you would like to say is that pretty much it okay i can answer any questions okay thank you
 And thank you, Mr. Bauer. At this time, then we'll come to the council. Is there any questions from the council? Councilman Warner? So what do you guys do exactly? We do marine and RV parts. Out on Sample Street. Correct. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you. Any other council members have any questions? I see I'm going to start this side here. Council, I'm fine. You're fine? Councilman Lee? What would you say has created this, this, this,
 surge or you thought you were only going to add six people and you end up adding 56 people? What has been the thing that has brought you the increase? So I definitely think it's probably twofold. One is proximity to our customers. We used to be in Chicago. Like I said, half of our big consumer base would be the RV field. So we're a lot closer. So it's easier for us in that way. Secondly, we had a plan of phasing in doing production, you know,
 here eventually but we actually started a lot earlier than we thought so we're actually producing product in South Bend under the name South Bend components so we've had a lot of people through there and and if I'm I don't have my glasses tonight so it says a company has completed 500 000 investment in property after 350 million dollar commitment in original resolution
 I apologize for that. That should just read $350,000. Alright, I didn't know I thought that's tremendous growth. Maybe one day alright. OK, any other Council members on this side? If no Councilman Wax, did you have a? Councilwoman Hammond, thank you. Can you tell us how many of the 50 new jobs created are actually self been residents?
 I think I can't tell you exactly, but I can speak as an estimate. I think most of them, I did the calculation one time and over 80 percent of them are in the economic opportunity zone just surrounding. So not only in South Bend, but in the very close surrounding area. That's good news. Secondly, did you receive notices from the county auditor's office in 2020 or 2019, 2020? Yes.
 for missing filings? I'm sorry, I wasn't dealing with a specific part of it. Like I said, my colleague who was actually at a christening right now, but I talked a little bit with him before, and it seems that the address that we had in Chicago may have been the address on file, so I don't recall receiving any of them, but it's very possible that they went to that address. Sorry. That's a significant problem if addresses are not changed. Okay, thank you.
 Council Member Davis, do you have a question? And I just want to clarify, you said it went from six committed jobs to 50. Was that correct? Or 50? We were charging 12 full-time employees by this time, but we're at 56 now. Okay, thank you so much. Okay, if there's no other questions from council members, I would like to proceed to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 22-37?
 There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 2237. And I don't see anyone in the chamber as well. Is there anyone wishing to speak against Bill 22-37? There is no one wishing to speak against Bill 22-37.
 I don't see anyone in the chamber as well. So at this time, we're going to close the public portion of the public hearing. I'd like to come back to council members. Are there any comments? Councilwoman Tomas Morgan. Thank you, Chair. I just want to thank you for your investment and commitment to South Bend. Congratulations on the additional full-time jobs and the success of your company. Great to have you here. Councilman Wax.
 thank you i just want to echo that comment and then just it's always the goal for tax abatements is for it to be a win-win for you know for a win for the city and the residents nearby and the city as a whole for its tax base and then a win for the businesses that they could leverage that abatement to succeed and while
 I'm not excusing the not filing the proper forms, and I'm sure that mistake won't happen again. It's always positive to hear the successes of an abatement. So I just want to thank you for your investment and thank you for choosing South Bend and wish you a lot of success going forward. And hopefully we won't have to hear from you again. Thank you very much, sir.
 except for good news, but you're always welcome to come back for it. Expansion. Okay. And as the sixth district representative, which Sample Street is in my district, I would just like to say thank you for exceeding the expectations. Thank you for making that investment. And I hope that it will maybe pull some more businesses to that area because it is a great location. It's right there off the bypass.
 We have some of the most high energy electrical lines to support many other different types of industry because that is like at the crossroads of America. So I just want to take the time to say thank you. And at this time, I believe everyone had something to say. So is there a motion regarding this bill that's before us, 32-37? I move bill 22-37 for passage.
 For excuse me for adoption second. OK, thank you. There has been a motion and it has been duly seconded clerk Jones. Could you please call the role? Yes, Council Member Thomas Morgan. I Council Member Hammond. I'm Vice President is Gatsby. I Council Member Davis. I Council Member Lee. I Council Member Warner. I Council Member Wax. I Council Member White. I hate eyes.
 Thank you. Bill 22-37 has been adopted, so thank you so much. Thank you. Okay, we're going to move on to Resolution No. 22-38. Clerk Jones, could you please read the title of the resolution? Yes. Yes.
 2238, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating a tax abatement for certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 505 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year mixed-use real property tax abatement for the Monroe LLC.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Tomas Morgan, is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill 2238 came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the Common Council with a favorable recommendation. Okay, thank you. And I see we do have a friendly face here that we've seen most of the evening. Thank you, Councilmembers. Thank you, Chair.
 Caleb Bauer, Acting Executive Director of Community Investment with us is on the 14th floor of this building. Before you is the correct designating resolution for the 505 South Michigan Street development called the Monroe. This would be an eight-year mixed-use real property abatement with a commitment of $13.9 million in investment.
 And the proposed project is a four story 65,000 square foot mixed use and multifamily building. It would create eight new FTEs and would include a substantial portion of the building for affordable housing. This is a property that is one of the projects that went before IHCDA and was submitted for 9% tax credits and we're optimistic.
 about its chances downstate, and we think it would be a transformative project for this block. These are the parcels that contain the former Fat Daddy's buildings.
 and currently vacant parcels on the corner of Monroe and Michigan. And so this would be a substantial improvement and an exciting project. And we're grateful for the developers' interest in this. Happy to take any questions. Okay. Thank you so much. Is there any questions from Councilman Davis? It has nothing to do with the tax abatement, but everything to do with the building, the
 Gear started grinding when you said four stories, 60 residents, four stories, like 70 residents over here at the Heritage Place, one elevator. Do you know how many elevators are going to go into this unit?
 Off the top of my head, I don't know. I know there is an elevator shaft for this building. So typically in a new construction that could sometimes include two elevators. But I would have to get back to you. Let me know. That because of zoning, they're allowed just that one or, you know, they will only push for one. But it's like two.
 And that's what they're having a problem with over there at Harris Place. Everybody's using it. So obviously it will shut down. Obviously it will break, right, because the usage is so high. So, yeah, find out from me, please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other council members that have a question? I think it's been presented to us at least four times now. I'm pretty sure. Okay. So at this point, then I'm going to move to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 22-38?
 There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 2238. Thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak against Bill 22-38? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in opposition of Bill 2238. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this time, we're going to come back to the council. Is there any comments from council members? Seeing none, is there a motion regarding the bill? Second. Second.
 THERE HAS BEEN A MOTION TO MOVE FOR ADOPTION. IT'S BEEN DULY SECONDED. CLERK JONES, COULD YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND? AYE. VICE PRESIDENT NISGATZKI? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER LEE? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WAX? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER TOMAS MORGAN? AYE. EIGHT AYES. THANK YOU, CLERK JONES. BILL 22-38 HAS BEEN ADOPTED.
 We have no bills on first reading. We have no unfinished business. Is there any new business? Councilman Lee? I would just like to invite my council colleagues to Goodwill on the Go at Corby Holmes on this coming Friday from 12 until 3.
 That's where we bring social services and the residents together so that they can have they can find services in their own backyard. So if you're available, we would love to have you love see your face over at the Corby homes, 12 to 3 on this Friday. OK, thank you. Is there any other announcements? Yes, I would just like to mention schools back in session either this week or next week.
 We have had a pretty significant rash of pretty erratic driving in South Bend that has been brought to the council more than once. So just to bring awareness to the community that kiddos are going to be waiting for buses and walking to school. And if we could all be very vigilant in making sure that these kids are safe. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
 And the announcement that I would like to meet, seeing no others at right now, is Prairie Apartments, they are having a back-to-school days. That's going to be on August the 11th. If you know anybody that would like to donate any school supplies, please get in touch with me, and I would be happy to pick them up. I believe it's going to be 5 to 6 o'clock. And right now, I know they were passed 50 children in need of items.
 With no other business then, we'll move to the privilege of the floor. And I would like to read a statement before going to the privilege of the floor. Disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech or actions, such as verbal attacks on any person, may result in an individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time.
 If you could, and individuals please state your name and residential address and you are limited to three minutes. It's the maximum time allotted for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals will not be permitted to address topics which the Council has already heard previously on the agenda.
 the council president may assign a topic raised by any individual during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics can be assigned and shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting
 Sharon Panicki, 3822 Ford Street. I'm finally getting back with some paperwork. It's where we'd like the streetlight put on Chicago. I've marked where the existing lights are. Karen and I have talked briefly about it, and I think Kenneth and I.
 There's just one section that is really dark, and this is where all the drug deals are also going on. So if we could  where the purple is, and I've marked on here what home addresses are, those that I could figure out that are owner-occupied. Surprisingly, we only have four vacant lots in this section, and all of them are actually owned by the houses next to them, which really impressed me. It is a good area if we can just 
 keep out those that we don't want. So I'll leave that here for you.
 Henry, somewhere on Facebook I saw that you were having problems in your area with overgrown lots. Have you tried talking to the people about natural habitats and explaining what they are and what they aren't? A couple of the council members recently saw my front yard. I will admit at times mine looks really raggedy-taggedy and people scratch their head and wonder what, but it is a natural habitat area.
 It's never the same two days in a row. I had a gentleman just stop yesterday and tell me how he loves my botanical garden. And I said, well, botanical, okay. I just call it a natural habitat. But in my yard, and it's a smaller front yard.
 At any given time, I will have coneflowers, milkweed, roses, queen ancillaries, hostas, daylilies, irises, tiger lilies, tulips, daffodils, crocuses, sunflowers, daisies, hibiscus, ferns, peonies growing. The birds that I attract are cardinals, bluebirds, robins, doves, finches, wrens, blackbirds, and hummingbirds. I also have monarch butterflies and bees and all different kinds of birds.
 I have a bunny family that lives in there. It's not to everybody's liking, but it does have a reason and a purpose. So, you know, instead of just trying to make everybody have the flat green grass that uses chemicals and water, I don't water my yard. I don't maintain it. I don't do anything to it. During the middle of the summer when everybody else was watering their yard twice a day, trying to keep it green and fresh, mine was the greenest.
 most colorful yard in the block and I did nothing. It's just something to think about before. We have a city code and it says that so many inches above can be cited by code enforcement. I'm just sticking to the rules. That's all I'm gonna- It also allows for natural habitats.
 I'm just throwing it out there as a suggestion, something to think about. You win. It's okay. Just drive by my house sometime and look at it. I know Sheila saw it. Candace saw it. I don't know if Karen's been by, but it's an interesting, I admit it's interesting. It takes a special person to appreciate it, but it took my son several years to decide to enjoy it, but.
 but here's that thank you for your time thank you for the language thank you for your i have a natural habitat at my house too i'm telling my wife that tonight okay um clerk jones is there anyone waiting to talk on the privilege of the floor virtually there is no one in the virtual audience that is waiting to talk a privilege of the floor okay then at this time um willie will
 this is where and there's one corner of the other side basin i think they skipped over here like here this is like right here on this corner and the step is about this because this one is amazing