I would like to call the Monday, August 9th, 2021 Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, at this time, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Yes.
 Good evening members of the public, both in person and virtual. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, if virtually, please submit your request in the chat and directions to do so are in the chat. If you're in person and you would like to speak,
 on an agenda item, you will be called to come forward and state your name and your address. We ask that you provide on the chat your full name and your address as those are required also for all speakers in person at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. Again, your name and your address.
 You will then be given three minutes to speak. So please, if you're virtual, be sure to unmute yourself prior to give me your remarks. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat and the council president will call on you during the relevant times for public input. Your name and your address again. Thank you. Thank you, Clerk Jones. I would like to read the statement in regards to additional expectations.
 disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attack on any person, may result in the individual, without notice, forfeiting the remaining of his or her time. At this time, our invocation will be given by First District Representative
 Councilman Kenneth Lee. Let's bow our heads. Father, we thank you for this opportunity to come to do the work of our city, to hear issues, to hear problems, and to solve those issues using not our own knowledge, but your knowledge. Help us today, God. Our city is in turmoil.
 And we need peace. So we ask God right now that tonight that you would allow your peace to be upon in this room, be upon us. We pray, God, that through all of this that we're going through tonight, that we would find a way to move forward for the citizens of South Bend. Help us to bind together with cords that cannot be broken and help us to do your will. We ask that you would guide us. We ask that you would touch our hearts.
 We ask that you would open our ears so that we may hear and be able to effectively bring about change in our community. God, where there's been offense, we ask that you would allow forgiveness to be found. Where there's misunderstanding, we pray that you would allow understanding to take place. A house divided can't stand. A city divided can't stand. And government divided can't stand. So help us today.
 to be able to do the things that are going to be right in your eyesight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I would like for everyone to please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
 I would like to publicly acknowledge those athletes from Indiana, but most importantly from the St. Joseph County who have done quite well in terms of the 2021 Olympus. We're very proud of them and we will acknowledge them at a later date. At this time, I would ask the clerk to please read the report from the subcommittee on minutes. We do not have any reports from the subcommittees on minutes this evening.
 Oh, okay. Thank you. We'll now move to item number five, special business. I'm sorry, the roll call. Okay. Council Member Davis. Andrew's here. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Here. Council Member Wax. Here.
 Council Member Nieskoski. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President McBride. Present. President White. Present. Nine present. Thank you. We'll now move to special business motion to suspend rules to advance first reading on the agenda.
 prior to going into this particular action, I'm going to ask our attorney to share the various steps that the council will be taken as pertains to this particular item under special business.
 Thank you President White moving to suspend the rules to advance first meeting first readings is a procedural motion which requests that all first readings be moved on the agenda from the current place to immediately before the committee of the whole the motion has no effect on any individual bill
 There is no debate permitted under Robert's Rules of Evidence, and the motion to advance the first readings must pass by a two-thirds vote. Any motion regarding a particular bill made at a later time will be subject to debate at that time.
 Thank you, Attorney Palmer. At this time, the first order of business is that we have to have a motion to suspend the rules to advance first reading on the agenda. President White, at this time, I move to suspend the rules in order to advance the first readings of tonight's bills on the agenda to immediately before resolving into the Committee of the Whole.
 Is there a second? I second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner.
 Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Nieskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine. Aye. Thank you. Attorney Palmer, will you once again just share the second part of the action that we will be forth taking? Yes, President White. First, readings will follow any reports from city offices.
 During the first readings, as normally happens, those bills are submitted to committees. If there is any motion such as hearing all three readings tonight that is subject to debate on that particular bill, and that motion must pass by a unanimous vote. Council members, do you have any questions?
 If thank you, if not, we'll move to the committee of the whole first, but first readings, we need to have a motion. The first reading on the suspended. Are there any reports from city office? There's no reports from city offices at all. So at this point, we go to first readings just as we would normally do from street. Clerk Jones, would you please give a first reading to Bill?
 108-21. Yes. 108-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Division 2, Sections 2, 12.2.2,
 and 2-12.2.6a and 2-12.2.7 to remove the office of the city clerk from the operation and implementation
 of the Community Police Review Office and to transfer the jurisdiction of the Community Police Review Office. Point of order, President White, we're out of order. We need to start with the first bill and first readings, just as we would usually do, I believe. Which would be 106 and 21.
 I'm sorry, just want to make sure that we're doing everything correctly. So we need a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. No, there's no question. Okay, I got it. We should begin with Bill 10621 on first readings and just go through the first readings in order. Okay, I got it. Clerk Jones, will you please give first reading to Bill 10621? Yes.
 106.21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2519 Pleasant Street. I will now entertain a motion to send Bill 106-21 to the South Bend Office.
 Zoning Planning Commission set for September the 9th, 2021, then sent to ZNA Committee for committee meeting public hearing for September 13th, 2021.
 So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Clerk Jones, will you now please give first reading to Bill 107-21.
 107.21, first reading on an ordinance street vacation property between Highland Avenue and the alley northern border of the property begins where Philippa dead ends at Highland Avenue on the western border of 2234 Highland.
 i will entertain a motion to send bill 107-21 to public works and property vacation set for committee and public hearing august the 23rd 2021 so moved clerk jones will you please call the role council member warner aye council member wax aye
 Council Member Niesgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Will you please give first reading to Bill 108-21.
 10821, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Division 2, Sections 2-12.2.2
 2-12.2.6a and 2-12.2.7 to remove the office of the city clerk from the operation and implementation of the community police review office and to transfer the jurisdiction of the community police review office, including appointment and discipline of the director to the jurisdiction of the mayor's office.
 I think I need to entertain a motion to send this bill 108-21 to the committee of the whole. President White, at this time, I would make a motion to conduct all three readings of Bill 108-21 at this evening's meeting. Is there a second to that motion? Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll?
 council member wax point of order i believe now we can uh have discussion on this main motion is that correct that's correct that's correct president white what i would like to do i would i would like for the attorney just to clarify
 for the audience what has happened in terms of bills first reading. So I want to make sure there's clarity on that, but also as pertains to Bill 108 dash 21. The action that was taken at the first part of our meeting was the suspension of the rules. Thank you President White by suspending the rules and moving the first readings up
 Committee of the Whole in the in the agenda. We simply advanced assignment of first readings to specific committees as we would do in any other meeting with first readings. The current motion to have all three readings of Bill 108-21 is a motion in compliance with the municipal code.
 The municipal code requires all bills to have three readings. It also provides that all three readings may be at a single meeting if the motion is made and is passed unanimously by the council.
 The debate on this motion itself is simply whether all three readings can be had tonight. Any debate on the merits of the bill itself, if this motion passes, will be after the second reading and after public hearing. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions? At this time, we'll go to comments.
 uh councilman treuer warner uh thank you president white um i made this motion tonight to uh hear this bill in uh and have three readings on it this evening um the drama has gone on long enough mr reynolds made false statements on his application he lied in his interview he hid his disciplinary record
 credibility cannot be restored. I've talked a number of times about credibility through this whole process, even going back into the summertime, that credibility for this board for this group will be key. Credibility can't be salvaged. Trust cannot be restored. Two weeks ago, a few of us Council members stated that it was time for somebody to own up and accept responsibility and stop pointing fingers instead.
 More and more fingers have been pointed, accusations have been made, and things have just spiraled even further out of control with just in two weeks. I'm afraid to see how much further it will spiral out of control in two more weeks.
 And then this just isn't one issue with the hiring of Mr. Reynolds. The clerk has omitted the council from this process. The clerk has not followed the ordinance or the state law on this process in regard to setting up the office and in regard to appropriating finances for the office and for legal counsel. Legal counsel was obtained without consulting with
 the council without even talking to HR again. I've been asked many times over the last, probably three or four weeks, why the council cannot just fire Mr. Reynolds. The council does not have the authority or the ability to fire any city staff. However, the council does have the power of the pen and the power of the purse. We can change the ordinance and we can also change the way
 salaries and funding and appropriations. At this time, I do think it is appropriate to use the power of the pen and make a change in the office at this time. Thank you. I will now go to Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Thank you, President White. This has been an extremely difficult decision for me. I have...
 answered all of the emails and every phone call over the last several days that has come my way trying to navigate this situation. The breaking point for me was this afternoon and the quote that was placed in the Tribune, and I'm going to read that so I don't misquote anything. Um, um,
 The city clerk said she continues to support Reynolds, vowing to keep him on her office's payroll if the bill passes and cuts him out of this still developing CPP.
 PR process. All nine council members have indicated they support the bill. If it passes, Jones said she would create a new job for Reynolds in which he would still investigate police misconduct complaints and gather data on policing.
 possibly called the director of community transparency. Reynolds would then release his findings to the public through the clerk's office instead of submitting them to the citizen review board that can make disciplined recommendations to the board of public safety, Jones says. This is not even possible based on the law. So...
 i'm sorry i i cannot allow all of the work that we have done to remain in the current office it is housed in thank you thank you councilwoman rachel thomas morgan
 Thank you, President White. I'd just like to add, from the very beginning, there's been a lack of transparency during the hiring process. When asked in emails and in meetings with the clerk's office to spell out what the procedures and the process for the hiring will be, there's been little communication, no communication, what that would look like.
 or conversation with the Council what that should look like. Additionally, there's been total disregard of provisions of the ordinance and how that guide how the Board and Office should operate. In this situation, but in many other situations that we don't need to go into,
 I've been very disappointed in the lack of communication that the clerk has had with the council overall. Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski. Thank you, President White. I support this move tonight for a couple reasons. I guess the first reason that comes to my mind was I was in the interview when Mr. Reynolds was asked directly if there was anything that would affect his job position and he said no.
 He lied during the interview. Having all those suspensions, to me, should have raised a question where he could have said, well, maybe I have some issues with my last job, or maybe I should disclose that. But he said no. He said no. The second part was that the clerk has excluded the Common Council from reaching a consensus on the hiring decision.
 In the very offices behind us, when she was going through the interview process, I asked her, when are we going to be included? What are the dates? And she said that it was a courtesy for her to even allow us to be in during the interview process. A courtesy. That's not what it says in the ordinance.
 Then she proceeded to schedule those meetings, one on top of the other, without finding a consensus for any of the council's scheduling, which is not how we operate here. Usually we'll reach out, we'll get a consensus, try and come to some dates where we can all attend, especially something as historic and as important for our community as this was.
 As well as some of the other comments that my fellow Council members have already mentioned, they just seem to keep piling up and it's sad. It's a sad day for South Bend Councilwoman Sharon McBride. Thank you. Well, this Council we have tried to work with the clerk to no avail. The Council strongly supports the ordinance. Of course, we have adopted it and.
 ask for transparency and for integrity to be maintained. Under the state statute, it only can be housed in one of two places, either in the mayor's office or in the clerk's office. We all unanimously opposed it being in the mayor's office because of lack of transparency or to increase the trust in the community.
 However, due to a lot of the miscommunication, lack of transparency, mistrust, we have no other recourse at this time but to have it more independent under the alternative of putting it in the mayor's division. However, the council has the control of the independence at this time.
 to make sure of the hiring, the firing, the disciplinaries will be housed under the council. So with that, this is the reason why I support it as well. So we have been forced to do our job and this is where it comes to take place.
 I too was the one who asked for the question to be asked of all of the three candidates when we found out that there were three finalists about the background. And so Ms. Nizgatsky already laid out the answer to that question. We all learned about the hiring in the paper. So there was no foresight with the council.
 And lastly, this has nothing to do about race. This has to do about capacity. And this has to do about... Nobody wants to set anybody out there. We wanted to make sure that, you know, we tried to be patient. But when you get shut out of the process and not able to even ask questions or your presence is as a courtesy, you know, that was a problem.
 We watched the interviews and we had several qualified African-Americans who applied for this position. And they were they were they were overlooked or we had one that made it to the end and probably was the better choice. So I was very surprised when we got the news or saw in the paper that they had made a decision on the citizen review board person and the person that got selected.
 So there's been some balls dropped and Ms. White is very gracious to say, you know, we all have to take responsibility on this, but this is too important. It's too important to our community to just continue down this road that we're going on. And this is a tough decision and nobody wanted it to be this decision. But if we're going to be able to gain the trust of the community, if we're going to be able to implement a citizen's review board,
 We had to make a tough decision. It's not a conspiracy. It's not four black people on a council trying to assassinate an African-American woman. We really wanted this to work. But what do you do when it's not working and it's getting worse? You have to make a decision. You have to make a tough choice. Simple things like a background check. Simple things about being forthright of the things that
 that it happened in the past with a record. I don't know about you, but I didn't want somebody that I felt in question to be responsible for upholding a standard to the police department here in South Bend that they didn't hold themselves. So when the calls went out to resign and they were rejected, it put us in this position. And I do want the community to know that,
 This was not this. Our hand had been forced to this because we couldn't get any participation. We couldn't get any any any compromise. It was this is what it's going to be. And I'm sticking to this decision. So my heart is very heavy because everybody else has been blamed. And the people who was in in control of the process has never once said.
 I made a mistake. And so that's why we're here tonight. This is why we're here today. No one wanted us to have to move this office out of the clerk's office. But when tough times happen, you got to make tough decisions. A house divided can't stand and a city divided can't stand. And everybody, this toxic chaos mess that we're in right now, how do you pull yourself out of it? You got to make a tough decision.
 Even today, as Lori read about what was said that if it's taken and the paper quoted, a position is going to be created where it'll be investigating the police and all of this out of this office. I don't know about anybody else, but that is very strange to me. And so that is why we're at this point today. It could have been avoided. It could have been avoided. It could have been avoided.
 and we could be moving the process forward so those are my thoughts council member hearing davis jr yes ma'am good evening um you know this started with me probably back in 2013 i uh was talking to some of my colleagues earlier today and uh the idea of a citizens review board started after my father and i left a council meeting similar to this
 and we were pulled over at gunpoint by South Bend Police Department. We thought we were going through the right channels when we went to file a complaint. Actually, we went over to Internal Affairs, which is one of the gentlemen you're talking about was the last three finalists. To no avail, and to our surprise, we were treated as if we pulled ourselves over. I think everybody saw the video. We ended up in court.
 I spent a few thousand dollars. I think it was probably total about six or $7,000 only to be told that you didn't do anything wrong. Well, we knew we hadn't done anything wrong. It was just driving home. As a matter of fact, I had voted against the police budget that night. And so that was the realization of really saying, Hey, we need an independent board that's going to investigate these claims because there has to be another voice.
 The largest thing was I was at the barbershop probably about two or three weeks later after that occurred. And there was a gentleman in there and he just said, hey, well, he said, welcome. I said, excuse me, said, welcome. What is that for? He said, because you're finally being treated like the rest of us have been treated, which took me down to another level.
 And so the realization of this happening, I'm talking about the board itself, was something that I carried with me. I was off council for four years, came back in, it had to happen. So I invested myself into this process for more than seven years. I want to see it happen, it's going to happen, and we will move forward. This is just a bump in the road. It's a large bump, but it's a bump in the road.
 So I want to say that I understand the trepidations that our advocacy groups are bringing to the table, their criticism. Their criticism is real, and it's supposed to be a part of this debate. And I say thank you. I commend you on it. And we are in between a rock and a hard place in terms of how we move forward. State law, I think somebody said this earlier, prohibits us from taking this under the council. We have two places. As a matter of fact, we have three places.
 Mayor's office, the clerk's office, or how about no Citizens Review Board at all? Two, the clerk's office was thought to be the best place to administer the office and the work of the office, and we are living through the failure of that decision. Our clerk has failed to exercise leadership and solid judgment. Number three, moving the administration of this office under the mayor is the only move that we can make reasonably.
 the council will still have the oversight of the budget and will continue to provide checks and balances this is not the best case scenario it is one of the very few moves we have left in order to actually get this office up and moving i support what my colleagues have put forward i've signed on as a co-sponsor and i'm just looking forward uh to building a stronger
 uh citizens review board for the city of south band thank you thank you councilman eli wax thank you president white i'm going to limit my comments to the um motion to have all three readings today and normally i i was very hesitant when i i heard that there was uh the idea to do this at one night and not go through the more typical process of having it over two meetings
 I'm afraid that based on statements that are being made on a daily basis, that that's not possible. I was not on the council when the CRB ordinance was initially passed. And I have reservations over whether or not the CRB was the best way to go. Right now, the CRB did pass, and that's the law that we have to work with. What I do know is that for it to work, there needs to be trust,
 from everybody and that includes all players in this and i don't see how that trust exists right now and what i'm afraid is that as each day goes on it puts us in a more difficult position to regain that trust and while i am hesitant to do this in one shot and i think that it's healthy that we normally wait i think in this case the healthy thing is to is to do do this all tonight
 And I give comments on the. The amendment itself later, but while I have reservations.
 I think we don't have a choice but to deal with it all tonight. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Wax. I would like to add my comments as well. It's been stated, again, under the Indiana state law, with very few exceptions, full-time employees must be hired through the mayor's office or the clerk's office. One of the exceptions is the attorney for the Common Council, and that is Attorney Bob Palmer. Okay.
 The original ordinance, and I'm just giving some background history, was really modeled after the Indianapolis ordinance, which has been in existence for possibly 30 years.
 This council, when we were drafting the ordinance, we had that the citizen police review board would, authority and direction and supervision would come through the council. Then we discovered that we did not have the authority to hire a full-time employee at that time. And I want to be very, very fair about the decision
 the council could not supervise or hire a full-time employee by state law. And so that the mayor at that time felt that he would not be best suited in his office for a number of reasons and we felt the same way. The clerk did accept the responsibility for
 for the supervision of the full-time director, as well as the citizen review board. If you were to review the ordinance, clearly duties and responsibilities have been ironed out in regards to which authority falls on the clerk's office and that which falls under the council. Throughout the process, those lines of authority became very, very blended.
 Under the South Bend Code, Municipal Code 2-7, the South Bend Clerk's Office operates as a clerk of the Common Council. Under this ordinance, the city clerk shall provide supportive clerical assistance and other related services.
 to the council such services shall be provided to further the necessary obligations responsibilities and duties required of council members and to further the effective and efficient operations of the council under the south bend common council ordinance the clerk city clerk with the consultation of the common council shall appoint the full-time director
 of the review office. The director is supervised and will be subject to review and evaluation by the city clerk in collaboration with the review board and the common council. I would like to share with the audience that approximately, if I'm not mistaken, 43 of 45 applications had been received
 for the Citizen Review Board. Clerk Jones did bring those applications to our office and through a process, the Common Council had an executive meeting to go through those applications and to identify the ones that we felt, along with the clerk, could move forward.
 As we begin to move through the process, those duties and responsibilities, and clearly that which fell under the council, we had some difficulties in terms of really continually stating that one, that not only was it the council ordinance, but also those duties and
 When I say the council ordinance, it really was the community ordinance. This council and the sponsors worked tirelessly to meet with community stakeholders, leaders, did the heavy lifting, and then this ordinance was passed by the council. And again, it was so important that we do have a citizen review board and that at one time,
 during the interviewing process, that question was asked by Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski in regards to what was our role as council members during the interviewing process. And we received an email dated April the 12th, 2021, that involving council in the interview process is a courtesy.
 Your attendance is not mandatory.
 and that we really felt that at that time that our level of participation was not necessarily wanted. But I was wanting to add this one statement that there's been a lot of misunderstanding in regards to once the three finalists had been selected, who made the decision that those individuals,
 would not have the opportunity to be presented to the community. That did not come from this council. We read about that during a press conference, and this is what was stated when council members really pushed
 to ensure that the finalists will have opportunity to be presented to the community. And so that was not our call and neither was that our choice. You've heard a lot of some of the concerns that this council has expressed. Again, this is not a way of throwing anyone under the bus.
 We have to be real, we have to be honest, and we have to walk in transparency. It has also been asked, well, council members, you should have said something early on. And again, we felt that we could work through this process when it became very clear that that was not necessary.
 a collaborative decision, then we're at this point. And it's a sad time within the state of the city of South Bend, but also for this council, but most importantly for the ordinance. We have a lot of work that we have to do in terms of working with the community, building trust. We're willing to do that heavy lifting, but we're at this point and we have to do what we have to do.
 Mr. Palmer, will you please explain the next steps too? And the reason why I'm asking Mr. Palmer to do that so that we have clarity and everyone in the audience, but also those who are on virtually will understand the process because we want to make sure that you do have that clarity. Thank you, President White. There's been a motion and a second to conduct all three readings of this ordinance tonight. Uh,
 That motion needs to be voted on now. It needs a unanimous vote to pass. If the motion does pass, the bill should be referred to the Committee of the Whole for second reading and public hearing in that section of the meeting tonight. Thank you, Attorney Palmer.
 Councilmember Eli. Second reading of the roll call. Councilman Wax. Aye. Is there a second to that? Yes. Okay, thank you. Clerk Jones, will you now call the roll? Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Neskowski. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. President White, at this time I would make a motion to send this bill to the Committee of the Whole.
 for second reading and public hearing. I would also make a motion to move this up into the agenda so that this bill would be the first item of the Committee of the Whole this evening. Is there a second to that motion? Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Okay, the motion is to move it to the first. Yes, it is the first, okay.
 Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. So that motion actually moves Bill 108-21 to be the first bill that will be read under the Committee of the Whole.
 We'll now entertain a motion to resolve into the committee. So moved. Second. We have a motion. It's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll? Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that have been given a second reading and public hearing have been first given a reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. So, Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 108-21 a second reading? 108-21.
 Second reading, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Division 2, Sections 2-12.2.2.
 2-12.2.6a and 2-12.2.7 to remove the office of the city clerk from the operation and implementation of the community police review office and to transfer the jurisdiction of the community police review office, including appointment and discipline of the director to the jurisdiction of the mayor's office. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 There would be no correct. The Committee of the whole will make the recommendation to the full Council after public hearing and in debate. OK, thank you. Then I guess at this point we.
 Councilwoman Neskoski, I don't know if you would want to, Councilmembers have already made comments. You may want to go directly to the public hearing portion unless Councilmembers would like to make further comments. I will after the public hearing. I want to make an amendment if possible.
 Okay. Well, it's not possible. I want to make an amendment when they finish. Okay. Thank you. So at this point, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion for those speaking first in favor. Yes. For those speaking first in favor and then those speaking in opposition. And Mr. Palmer, can you please also just clarify for everyone in the audience what the time limit is and that you will be keeping the time on that, please? The time limit is five minutes a person. Okay. Thank you.
 So at this time, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 108-21? Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you, Council Members. I'm Pam Clays at 1106 Bellevue Avenue, South Bend in the Great Third District. And I have very little to say except I agree and concur with each of your comments. I have had the same difficulties.
 And I totally agree with you. I think for the support of the community, for the transparency, it's the right thing to do. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Gladys. If you could state your name and address for the record, please. Gladys Muhammad, 808 North Ironwood. I, too, agree that this is a very difficult situation that we're in.
 And because I know the clerk and I've heard from the clerk and I've heard from some of the city council people and I've heard from some of the people in this room. So for the past three weeks, I've been listening to those that are forward and those that are against. And I feel that it's very emotional for me to try to make a decision about this since I love this community.
 And when the council said the Citizens Review Board, I support the Citizens Review Board. But for me, listening at all the discussions and listening to the things that you've said tonight and listening to what people in the community say, I support the council's recommendation to move it back into the city council so that the council has the authority and the responsibility to move this process forward.
 I think the process has gotten stalled. The dialogue that's in the newspaper, the Facebook, the conversation has been destructive, not constructive. And the purpose of this was to be constructive for us all to be working together. As far as Mr. Reynolds is concerned, I don't know if he told the truth, if he didn't tell the truth.
 But right now, the situation is we need to resolve this and put it so that it can be resolved. It don't need to continue and continue because all it is doing is making it more negative to continue this.
 So I do support the city council and I hope that when it goes back that you guys will have the opportunity to talk about it with the rest of the community, with the individuals and agencies who want to know more about this. The things that you cannot sit here and say out loud because you don't want to embarrass anyone or just tell the whole truth.
 So I support you and I hope that when it gets back that you will do the right thing as the council and meet with different individuals in this room and organizations to have candid, open discussions about trying to resolve this situation and why that you wanted to put it back with the city council. So I support that. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Council. Isaac Hunt, 138 East Broadway. I currently work in a position as a community liaison with the Save Our Reeds team for the City of South Bend and Goodwill Industries. I work with five different cities across the country. Albuquerque, New Mexico, Grand Rapids, Minneapolis, Louisville, and Fort Myers, Florida. Each one of these cities has a citizen review board. I also work in conjunction with Chicago Invoice that has a citizen review board.
 One of the main things that concern me about this is the fact that all these cities, there's no current or ex law enforcement in the position of director. Now you have law enforcement that advises the board member, but not as the position of director. Would it not seem as if it could end up being a conflict of interest? And this is one of the reasons why they don't have law enforcement in this position.
 Whether where it sits at, how it sits, is up to y'all. In the beginning, I always said that it should have been under the mayor's office, even with all the things that was going on. And the reason being is because it allows for the transparency and the latitude for the community for our citizens. This has to move forward. Our citizens in this community are watching these things going on and seeing what's happening. And we're not getting what we need because this is not in place yet.
 So whether it's Mr. Reynolds or whoever it is, I personally believe that it should not be a current or ex-law enforcement, but it should have advisement as Bob is to you guys for policy procedures and what to do to make sure things are legal and follow the right protocol. So that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 108-21?
 there is a comment chair in the um chat um thank you clerk jones could you read the i cannot see it i don't have my actually it's a person that wants to speak by the name of angela o'dell or old dale angela she has her hand up to speak in favor of see it doesn't set okay so and then we have another we have a few people uh we have chris
 that has his hand up and also Linda Wolfson that has her. I'm sorry, that's not what I'm referencing. There is someone that has typed in their name and address. Kathy Kirshner? Yes. Kathy Kirshner, if you could please state your name.
 an address for the record, if you would like to speak in favor of this. Yes, yes. My name is Kathy Kirshner. Did you ask for my address? I'm sorry. Yes, ma'am. You have to state your name and address for the record, please. Thank you. Kathleen Kirshner, 538 Marquette Avenue, 46617. Thank you. You have five minutes. I don't need the entire five minutes. I just think that I support the amendment as it's written. I beg your pardon.
 i beg your pardon um sorry now you're muted who did that there you go thank you you're welcome i support the amendment as it's written i i think that the the city clerk um that this would be better in in the mayor's hands as well as um you know allocate allocated to um the council
 for the oversight, I think, is better put in the hands of the council than in the office of the city clerk. I think that that's an overextension of that particular office. And I just want to voice my support for the amendment as it's written. Okay. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you. You're welcome.
 And at this time, I don't see anybody else wishing to speak in favor in the chat. Could you confirm that for me, Clerk Jones, to make sure we're both seeing the same thing? I don't see anyone expressing interest to speak in favor. Okay. Thank you.
 Sir, would you like to speak in favor? Yes. Okay. Your name and address, please. Fred T. 704 Rolling Court. Thank you. And I also support the amendment. You know, I really find it baffling that a person would be appointed or hired for such a position and a background check not being done or wherever the ball was dropped. I mean, if I apply for a job, there's going to be a background check.
 You know, so and if I lied on the application, I'm going to be let go. You know, so that's the only alternative that makes sense. You know, it's sad how this has played out in the media. You know, absolutely. There should have been some, you know, discussions, some mutual decisions made a path forward. Pastor Lee said I made a mistake.
 You know, so I definitely support what you guys are doing. I definitely think it's better in your hands. And it would be, I really, I'm, what Isaac said made a lot of sense to me. You know, that there shouldn't be law enforcement or ex-law enforcement dealing with something that has to do with the police. And when you're talking about transparency and you're talking about really trying to make some inroads into the community, you want to make sure that there's somebody there
 that can connect with the community. Somebody that really can get down at the King Center or wherever they are and connect with people. Let them know that I'm not gonna throw anybody under the bus, but at the same time, I'm gonna stand for what's right. And the gentleman's past puts all that in question for me. So as a person in the community, I wouldn't wanna have to deal with that.
 I wouldn't want to have to be subject to what this gentleman's decision would be made if an incident occurred on my behalf. I would want somebody that was going to stand for what's right and not lean towards what he's connected with or whatever else. And that's just my opinion. So I applaud y'all for making the hard decision to bring this to a head and trying to figure out a path to move forward. And I thank you for it. Thank you.
 Is there anybody else from the public wishing to speak in favor? Okay. If not, then we're going to go to those wishing to speak in opposition. Dawn Jones, 4th Floor, County City Building. Let me first begin by applauding the South Bend Common Council for establishing a community police review board for the citizens of South Bend.
 Many people in the community have been demanding this type of review for years. Luckily, we do not have to redesign the wheel as this type of oversight has been taking place in our country for decades.
 I implore this council to let the process continue of establishing the office and board. I appreciate council members who took the time to attend the many interviews of candidates for director. I valued your time and input. Interviews began in 2021 and culminated in the announcement of a decision to hire Josh Reynolds on May 24th, 2021. I still believe he's the right person and I implore the council to give him the independence and room to flourish.
 I want to remind everyone, however, that it was the Council pushing me on the timeline. And I understand this. I understood this. The Council passed the CRB Ordinance in October 2021 and wanted to see a board and office established without delay. I agree. I also would add that we were losing candidates for the director position the longer this process took. So time was and still is of the essence.
 When I told the council in January I anticipated the board being in place by September, I was informed at that time publicly that was too late and I should move the dates up to have a board in place no later than June or July. With that being said, I moved quickly to begin the process of searching for a director. I discussed and sought input regarding the director job description with council members, administration, and human resources.
 I believe that is the December 7th meeting you can listen to. A lengthy discussion ensued. Administration did not want a job description with investigative authority. However, the ordinance emphasized investigative authority with subpoena power. Consequently, two job descriptions were created at the request of the mayor by the Human Resources Department.
 The descriptions were disseminated to the Council for their review and input. After much debate, I was advised to align the job description with the ordinance. This caused a couple of more weeks for preparation. Thus, the job posting happened at the end of January
 with my goal of having it posted for 30 days and then begin the interview process, hoping to have someone in place by the end of March or beginning in April. Needless to say, that did not happen. We began with 40 applicants. As counsel and myself combed through the applicants, I delivered the applications to each council member's home personally.
 so that they would have time to review the applications before the executive session. So we all had the applications within our homes. So we met in an executive session. We combed through each application one by one. We agreed on 13 applicants after which dates and times for virtual interviews were set up. After contacting these individuals, some had gotten other jobs, paying more.
 A couple went into their own business and one, some did not return my call.
 As a result, six were left. The six that were left to interview were excellent candidates. Council was invited to all the interviews and some even asked questions that were not on the list that had been generated soliciting input from each council member. We had a set of questions for the first interview and a set for the second. Unfortunately, during the interview process, some council members expressed their own personal concern with some of the candidates and did not want them interviewed.
 In accordance with the ordinance, I set up interviews with the best candidates, leaving individual personal reasons out of the process. There were some council members who even contacted a candidate who was African-American to discourage them from taking the position with the clerk's office claiming I was messy and a member of Black Lives Matter.
 This behavior was extremely discouraging and conjured up mistrust on my part, not knowing what else would happen to sabotage the search. Even with those activities taking place, I still contacted every council member except for President White, who stated she was unable to return my calls due to her schedule. Although I spoke with them separately, I can assure you that the majority of the council members agreed on Josh.
 Interviews took place during the month of March and April, leaving three final candidates, resulting in an interview process involving the council attorney, my attorney, and myself.
 Initially, I planned to secure a community screening committee as I attempted to contact members of the community. I realized what a huge undertaking this was and having no funding, although asked for it, to hire an extra assistant specifically for this, I became overwhelmed with trying to coordinate myself with the timeline that was expected of me.
 I was short staffed and could not expect my limited staff to not only do the work of a missing position, but additional work of establishing another division of my office. Your time is up, Clerk Jones. Thank you for your comments. Thank you. Vernado Malone, founder of Justice for Michiana, address B2015, Western Avenue, Suite 111. I think tonight, Troy Warner said...
 The key word, trust cannot be restored. I started my journey when ex-Sergeant O'Neill killed Eric Logan. The black community of the first district, the second district, is people I deal with on a daily basis. The public don't trust their own councilmen. They don't trust the mayor. They don't trust the police department.
 Justice for Ms. Sheena has been building gaps, been that gap for the city. I resigned from the city grant. No money can buy me. If you're not doing your job, you need to step down. Henry Davis, all respect. People here today don't believe in you. People here don't believe in you, Councillor Lee, as well. These people come in my office with complaints.
 I demand and everybody got the demand. Two months ago, a black man land on the ground with an officer knee in his neck. Today, I call South Bend Police Department. No return phone call. I made that complaint. A month ago, I reached out to Josh Reynolds and told him about this black man.
 on the ground with a police officer knee in his neck. Josh Reynolds, call me down. So justice for Miss Jenna. Don, I love you. The community love you for being who you are when you allow money to buy you, which I can't. I'm sorry. I hope you guys let their board say stay with the clerk's office.
 You have families hurting every day who would not depend. They don't call the police, they call justice for Ms. Shannon. They won't call the GVI team. They won't call Isaac Hunt team. No disrespect, but we must be truthful here today. Hannah, you asked me yourself about Mr. Lee. I told you, watch for yourself. Don't stay in here playing games.
 Leave Mr. Reynolds and Don where they should be. That's what the people of South Bend want. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Bernice Clark. I live at 1133 North O'Brien Street in South Bend, Indiana, 46628. I graduated from LaSalle High School in 93. I'm a product of the Northwest side.
 I have been on Section 8. I have received food stamps. I also went through the Work One program, where they put me through the nursing program, paid for everything. Now, currently, I'm 47. I have a BSN in nursing. So I've seen all aspects. But when I heard about Joshua Reynolds, it was like a kick in the face. It reminded me of 2016, when I called for help during a domestic dispute. I lived at 1115 Johnson at the time.
 Joshua Morgan showed up, took my ex-boyfriend away, came back and knocked on my door, said I was resisting arrest, took me downtown South Bend Police Department. I was arrested. At that time, I asked for what, why, when, where. During the time of him taking me to the police car, he shoved me down the stairs. I was barefooted. I was not physically aggressive, nor was I verbally aggressive to Joshua Morgan.
 But I knew as soon as I got released that night that I was filing an internal affairs incident report. That night I did just that. Karen and Chris that worked in IA came directly out the next morning, and they measured my doorways, my steps. They took pictures of my bruises. They even came to my job, which I was embarrassed because I worked at Neuropsych. I was a director of nursing then at that point. So they had to come in. That was embarrassing to me because I called for help.
 I wasn't verbally or physically aggressive to this police officer because I know in the black community, we know not to talk back. We know not to assert any aggressiveness towards the police. So after that, I called to see when I was going to complete my report. They said I would get it once I'm done with court fighting my battle for resisting arrest. At that time, I had to get an attorney. Thomas Strickler was my attorney at that time.
 And we fought and we fought and we fought. He even said, you're not going to beat this case. Resisting arrest is only like a 98% chance of beating the case. I said, let the chips fall where they may. I'm a nurse. You're not going to get me for resisting arrest for what cause. When he left my home and came back and knocked on my door and I let him in. Because for what else? What did I do? Okay. So kept calling internal affairs. Internal affairs say, hey, we cannot give you the copy of the report until you're done fighting this.
 From 2016 to 2018, we went back and forth to court, going back and forth, wasting money. I moved to Indianapolis, took a different director of nursing job down there at a neuropsych hospital, came back, back and forth, back and forth, finally did a bench trial. I beat the case. The attorneys didn't even expect it.
 Then I called down, talked to David Herring. Can I get my internal affairs report? They found him guilty. Joshua Morgan went up to the attorney's floor here in this building, asked for Joshua Morgan's background. Tried to do a civil suit. Couldn't get nothing, but I had injuries. Well, you were supposed to tell us six months if you were gonna sue the city of South Bend. Why would I tell you that when you gave me problems trying to get the paperwork that I needed to prove my innocence?
 So finally, the day we had civil, a civil suit, I went upstairs. They gave me the paper. The attorney for the city told me, I'm so sorry, Bernice. Sorry, I'm looking Joshua Morgan. Four different types of disciplinary action was taken on him. And he should have been wearing a cam, a vest cam when he came to my house. Those are the facts. So when you hired Reynolds, that's the kick in my face.
 So I know if there's an African brother in this community that hasn't did anything, might be carrying a gun, might be carrying dope, what would he do to them? I wasn't a threat at all. And City of South Bend, you really hurt us.
 Not only you guys, but different facilities, the 501 building, just everything is falling apart in South Bend, Indiana. Why? We're not big as New York. We're not big as Chicago. We're not California. Why are we having so many problems? Who's watching the watcher and the watchees? Where's our money going? We're taxpayers, too. South Bend is not bad because if you can't make it here, you can't make it nowhere because you have a lot of avenues for us to go.
 You have the Section 8 program, which I was on that. You guys screwed that up. Escrow couldn't buy a house. 30 seconds. Okay, so I'm hearing what you guys said. Warner, I heard you say responsibility, credibility. Who's going to fire the person that hired Reynolds? Why are you giving him another job? He lied to you. Lied to your faces.
 Head on. Why give him another job? Why? You guys keep saying not it's not race, but you keep showing me it is race because had it been a black person, you would have had the black ground from when he was two years old. You would have had it. You would have had it and now I'm sorry your time has expired. Thank you for your comments. Thank you. I have a question before we go any further. Was she speaking for or was she speaking against
 I think she got confused. But she's confused. Okay. Josh Morgan did not get hired. But Josh run a what? And that could kick in my face for the infinite. That happened with Joshua Morris. So you're in support of what we're doing versus being against what we're doing. You just spoke during. Okay. Thank you. That's what the clarification was. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Carry on.
 Okay, I'm Thelisa Williams. I work for Justice Michiana. First and foremost, I want to say I agree with everything Fernando said. I had a situation myself with my 13-year-old son. He does yard work for the community. Everybody out here loved my kids. He ended up getting in a situation with one of the handicapped kids across the street from my old house. Three officers got involved. They kicked my son. They stomped my son. They hurt my son.
 My son already goes through the city every day telling me that he fear the cops because he don't know when that they going to try to kill him. He don't know if they going to hurt him. He don't know what they going to do. At the end of the day, the poor black people in this community, we fear the police anyway. So putting it up under the mayor's office, that's going to make us not trust him either at the end of the day. And basically, that's all I got to say.
 If you're going to have somebody on our side, we need somebody that we can trust too. And putting it up under there, we ain't going to be able to trust him no more either. Thank you for your comments. Yes, Darrell Heller, 425 Lamont Terrace. I don't think I'm going to change your mind. I mean, I've spoken to many of you over the course of today and the last few days, and so I think you're pretty set on the decision you're going to make. But there are a couple of things I do want to put on the record. Okay.
 The issue of credibility is a really important one. For this community police review board to have any kind of integrity and to be functional and to serve the purpose for which the community wanted, it's going to require deep trust by the community in the process and in the board itself.
 And one of the reasons I think that we're in this place where we are right now is because the original ordinance itself was rushed through. I think that more time needed to be spent. And I know some of you agree with that. I've spoken with some of you that the original ordinance needed some more time.
 massaging i'll put it that way um particularly questions around how it was going to be implemented which wasn't worked through very clearly the original ordinance itself was changed the day before it was voted on and moved from the mayor's office to the clerk's office wasn't um i don't think fully reviewed and discussed by the community and even by the council members themselves um so i think rushing the process is part of what got us here
 And I think that it well, I don't think, but it feels to me at this point that the decision you're making tonight is rushed as well. And I know that y'all have been going through a process and I'm not I'm not questioning what's been happening behind the scenes that we, the public, don't necessarily know about. But again, I think that's part of the problem.
 This feels like another example of pushing an amendment through that has little to no public input. And I think that that's going to jeopardize their credibility. And so I think it was President White who said that there's some heavy lifting going to be necessary. So if you pass this tonight.
 It's going to take some heavy lifting on your part to get us to trust that this is the Community Police Review Board that we all wanted from the very beginning that is now in a place that is highly questionable for many of us. I don't have an answer to what the solution is. I mean, if I did, and I've done what I feel like I could do to support it, but some of
 that I think are unresolved and passing it tonight is not going to help with these questions, is what happens after the vote? What happens after you put it in the mayor's office? Have y'all thought that through? What is the...
 What role will the public have in the implementation? I know, again, I've talked, I've spoken with some of you and you said the public will be involved. But we were also told that the original ordinance to trust me. And I think that trust is just limited right now, that this is going to work out the way that we, as the public, really wanted it to work out. You're putting it into the mayor's office.
 And I understand that the mayor is going to delegate authority to the council. But what happens with the next mayor? The next mayor is not bound by that. So how are we going to have safeguards that this
 Community Police Review Board is going to be truly independent, not just under this mayor, but for all time. You know, that we as the community can really trust that it is going to fulfill the purpose that it was set for. What's the funding for it? How's the budget set? These are all questions. And again, y'all might have thought about it, but you're certainly not. You certainly haven't told us.
 US THE PUBLIC LIKE WHAT THAT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE AND THIS ISSUE OF TRUST I THINK YOU KNOW ON MULTIPLE SIDES AT THIS POINT IS IS BROKEN UM IT'S BROKEN FROM THE CLERK'S OFFICE BECAUSE I THINK THE INTRANSIGENCE OF THE CLERK'S OFFICE IS PARTLY WHAT GOT US INTO THIS TO THIS PLACE I THINK RUSHING IT ORIGINALLY THE ORIGINAL ORDINANCE GOT US INTO THIS PLACE SO THAT YOU KNOW AS MANY FOLKS HAVE SAID THERE'S BLAME ENOUGH TO GO AROUND FOR EVERYBODY BUT THAT'S NOT THE POINT THE POINT THE MOMENT IS
 how do we move forward in a way that's about building and not about blaming and not about being reactive and not having knee jerk and this reactive responses to
 what what it seems to be in one sense both egos at play and politics at play when neither one of them is going to help us the community with what we need which is full accountability of the police department to the city you know to us as citizens and to us as residents of the city so what i'm asking my my recommendation my deep
 hope is that you minimally table this and give it two more weeks for us, the community, for you to kind of respond to us, but not rush this through tonight. That's my request. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Hello. Bernardo Malone, 1214 East Madison, South Bend, Indiana, 46617.
 I'm against this because this is supposed to be about building trust with our police department and our community. And moving this to the mayor's office is not a good thing. One, because people don't trust the mayor right now, and people really don't trust the police department. And honestly, and just so everyone knows, I am speaking as a resident and not as the city clerk of the office.
 And really, people don't trust the council itself. So, and me only being 20 years old, working for the city, I have friends that's still out here on the streets, that's in gangs, and they want to speak up and do the right thing. But, however,
 They have no one to speak to. And I think with the CPRB being a clerk's office is a good fit, not only for residents, but to give the community a better understanding of how the police department works. And I think with Josh's background, it's a really good thing because he knows how to look into things and the police department can't even get their dashboard correct. And that is really sad to me.
 I was over there sitting in my seat like, do I really want to get up and speak or what? I don't want this to ruin my relationship with none of the council members. So I think moving this to the mayor's office is just a bad idea. We need to sit down together, not just the council and the clerks or mayor's office, but with the community and have these public talks just like we did last summer.
 and give at least another month or so, so we can all come together and work together. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Good afternoon, President White, Trina Robinson, 914 Lincoln Way West. I am the President of the South Bend NAACP. I'm with Darrell. There's absolutely nothing that we can say that is going to change the minds of some of you, all of you pretty much because it's pretty much made up. But I will say this,
 It is very difficult for the community, the black community as a whole, to trust anything coming out of the mayor's office. When the mayor appoints the chief of police, the mayor appoints member to the board of public safety and in bed with the FOP. And now you want the community to trust the process that this best community review board is going to be under the mayor and everything is going to be peaches and cream.
 That is delusional and it's very unrealistic expectation. I am really concerned that the council has not placed interest in the current police officers that happen to have civil rights violations in their files. But it's okay for us to talk about someone that will spend 13 days calling little white girls bitches in training.
 There's no civil rights violations in that file. And I don't know how your job works, but if I was on my job and I was offered a position and I did all that I was supposed to do, and then later some members decide that they didn't like me for whatever reason, decide to ask me to give more information, that is like an inmate in prison being convicted of an offense.
 and then come back and be in double jeopardy, being convicted again. I know that there's problems with the clerk's office, and there's problems with the council, and everybody's holding on to their egos and it's something that we have to do, and no one wants to lose their power. However, I feel this is needed for there to be a mediation and for there to be some type of restorative justice type of training, because no matter who we put in this position,
 You're still going to have to work with the clerk. And I'm a firm believer that we as a community should be uniters and not dividers. And to not be willing to sit down as a collective entity to find out who's feeling as if what they're doing is right and who's feeling as if they're doing is wrong, but not necessarily casting them aside because of their opinion.
 Everyone has an opinion, and what may be your opinion may not necessarily be the opinion of someone else. Everyone feels that a process was flawed, and others may feel that the process was not. But until you're able to sit down collectively and determine how can we move forward,
 whether we get rid of Josh or whether we hire someone else in, we're still going to be faced with the same problems. We cannot continue in this community to put a bandaid on a cancer and expect this community to thrive under the mayor's office. That is totally unacceptable. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your comments. Good evening. I'm Josh Reynolds. I work out of the clerk's office on the fourth floor of this building.
 A lot has been said tonight about me and my background. I have spoken to that at length in the past. The purpose of this board, this office, was one that included that of restorative justice. And as someone who has had a past, who has admitted to my wrongdoings in the past, and has worked to be a better man since that time, I feel I embody those values.
 Those values that I take ownership for where I've made mistakes that I have made amends where I can and that I have tried to be better. And for this I oppose this amendment because this taking this out of the clerk's office destroys the independence of this office you put it in the mayor's office and it becomes another tool for that office to continue to impress the voices of this community.
 We have the mayor is in charge of the Board of Public Safety. He appoints members there and he's had his opportunity to run a board to be to have oversight over a board in the past. And it would be a fatal flaw to allow this to go under the mayor's office. He's and he has responsibility over the police department as well. And with this, it becomes if this goes under his control, it becomes a useless board itself as.
 I have been in this office. My goal has been to move this forward as much as I can. I've been met with nothing but barriers since I have started this. I've had the tremendous support of the clerk, and she has been wonderful in that regard.
 and has encouraged me on a daily basis. I've met with hundreds of people in this community, different organizations, city leaders, and have spoken at length about the many, many problems that exist in law enforcement today and for the South Bend Police Department specifically. But when I started this position, I asked for data.
 from the police department i started in at the beginning of june and here we are two months later i have not received a single response for that information as others have said that when they have filed complaints they have not had any response from this city the police and again i remind you that the police department is under the control of the mayor's office so we have a culture within the mayor's office now that demonstrates that they are unresponsive to this community
 that they cannot be trusted with the complaints that have been filed. So I've taken it upon myself to start collecting data on my own. And also like to point out that we, after it was mentioned that a couple of weeks ago that my records were going to be subpoenaed, I volunteered to give those records to you. I gave consent knowing that what has been said about me already is the worst of it. So with that said,
 uh our office has requested the files of every police officer on the south bend police department and so far we've received no response from the mayor's office city legal human resources and any other person that we've asked so i would ask that the council get involved and subpoena those records and ask the police department to be cooperative in this whole process this is about holding officers accountable
 So I would ask for that, that the council use their own power to subpoena those records and to compel the police department to provide the data as regards to the demographics of police initiated activities such as traffic stops. So we know which communities are being most affected by this police department. So.
 In the open source investigations that I've had to do so far, because again, the city has refused to provide any data or records, I have discovered after just reviewing 40 officers that between five and six officers have several civil rights complaints against them. Law certify that they have been sued multiple times for their violations against people of this community.
 And I'd like to remind you that I've never been sued as a police officer for civil rights violations. So we're talking about the credibility of this officer, the credibility of the police department. We have officers that have banged a woman's head up against the wall eight to ten times while she was in handcuffs. I'm wondering how many times can you bang somebody's head against the wall before they're held accountable? Your time is up. Thank you for your comments.
 Is there anyone else in the audience here wishing to speak in opposition before I go to the Teams app to see who's on virtually? Do you see anybody? Clerk Jones, could you please let me know who may be in opposition? As I mentioned before, we have Odell Angela. And we have four people. We have Odell Angela, Julian Dean, Drew Duncan, and Kat.
 Okay. Odell, would you please state your name and address for the record? Yes. My name is Angie Odell, and I'm actually speaking on behalf of my mom and father, my mom and dad, who they're at 719 West North Shore Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46617. And I actually grew up there all my life.
 I grew up in North Shore Triangle. It's a great neighborhood. It's a walking, biking, kid-friendly neighborhood. Recently, there have been many accidents on West North Shore Drive, including one that happened the morning of August 4th at 2 a.m. in the morning. My father almost lost his life
 He is unable to walk. Excuse me, is this about the amendment that is before? Oh, I'm sorry. No, it is not. I didn't. I understood that this is open for. I apologize. Yes. No, this is a reference. Okay. Come back for the privilege at the. I apologize so much. Thank you. And whenever. Fine. Thank you. You're welcome. Please come back toward the end of the meeting for the privilege of the floor. If you wish to speak. Thank you.
 Next we have Julian Dean. Could you please state your name and address for the record, please? Hi, yes. Julian Dean, 815 Leland Avenue. I want to echo a lot of what Darrell said about not having time to have this discussion. I feel like minds have been well made up long before we got here tonight. And so you're not really going to be able to take this input, sit with it for a bit and reconsider anything.
 And that is very disappointing. But what I'm hearing from the council tonight is a lot of anger and frustration with the clerk's office and with her decision on the hiring. I'm not going to dispute any of that with you. But what I am going to say is both of those positions are temporary positions in a board that we hope is a permanent board. You are going to move this thing into a place where it's going to become redundant and
 Because the Board of Public Safety is already there. And whether or not this mayor is willing to give y'all any power over that thing, the next mayor very well may not. So you're giving up control of the board from the people to the mayor permanently for two positions that are not permanent.
 And I would really urge you to think about the board and not about the individuals and to reconsider what the ramifications of this would be long-term before you scuttle something that hasn't even started yet. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Next we have Drew Duncan. I'm Drew Duncan, 2103 High Street, South Bend, Indiana. We had a conversation with four of the council members earlier
 I'm myself, the Madam President from the NAACP, Mr. Heller and many others. And I'm speaking against this bill tonight because I do feel that this is rushed. I explained to Councilman Lee earlier,
 I felt that this was the time for poise. I felt this was the time for conversation. I felt that this was the time for people who are elected and work on behalf of the public to finally listen to the public.
 And so we in that request, I also asked that we could postpone this bill until we had conversations with the council and the clerk concerning this matter. And as a person from the public watching from the outside in, the drama has been concerning and I don't think moving the office is going to make it any less concerning.
 People who are elected on this council have a responsibility to act above the drama. We expect you people who represent the community as a whole to speak and be able to handle negotiating problems with people who necessarily don't want to work with you. And so through all the testimony from almost all the council members tonight, there was an agreeance that mistakes have been made in all directions.
 So with that being recognized, I think that there should be some patience exercised in how we move forward. I believe that this is the nuclear option, and we don't even have a pathway as far as votes, how we get it out of the mayor's office. So as far as, again, rashness over cool, calm-headedness in a pathway conversation is going to
 It's going to be really bad. I think there's a lot of people here tonight that are speaking out against it. There's been a lot of people over the last couple weeks who have not liked the process and this only worsens it.
 And lastly, I'll leave with this. We expect for people who are elected in our city to be able to conduct themselves and behave themselves in the Tribune and on the paper and conduct the business of the city in a better manner.
 than what has happened over the last 30 days. This has been a travesty of democracy as people are watching our community be torn apart because we have people making mistakes, pointing fingers and nobody wants to take the blame. But now we're coming in heavy handed and all throwing it at the feet of the clerk.
 And so I just want that to be put on the record that we spoke earlier. We begged for more time so that we could negotiate terms to what it would look like and negotiate if Josh was the right person to move forward. And those fell to deaf ears. The votes tonight were already decided when the bill was submitted. And so to get here tonight and pretend as if you guys are friends of the community and that you're here to hear the input is a lot.
 We asked you very clearly earlier on the call if you would vote and the conversation was avoided, but the conversation tonight at this council meeting has been very clear that the intention is to move it and that the members on the council are walking in lockstep on this. And so I just wanted to share my disappointment and share that the city has been disgraced by the activity of the elected officials in the city.
 Thank you for your comments. Would you give me the next person, Clerk Jones, please? Next, we have Kat and Tiana and then Mr. Thiber. Thank you. Kat, please state your name and address for the record. Yeah, it's Kat Redding, 418 Lamont Terrace. And so I am also speaking in opposition of this bill. Okay.
 To me, when this ordinance was put up, it was showing what a community looked like, showing what democracy looked like. And it gave a pathway for the people that are disproportionately affected by police brutality. I, for one, am.
 a woman of color that's been a victim of police brutality here in South Bend. And when I spoke with the mayor, previous mayor, he said, I'm sorry that this happened to you. He didn't say, you know, we want to start a community review board so that there's a voice for the voiceless. He never said that.
 Mueller never said that he wanted to start a review board or community members to file complaints. It was the city, it was the community. To me, this sounds and feels like a dictatorship at this point. There's a clear conflict of interest either way it goes.
 whether or not it's in Joshua Reynolds being the director or the mayor. We know at this point that this city lacks transparency because we still see tapes tied up in litigation. So how can we...
 How is it that we can move forward with this board and it's already been compromised? It's not a matter of who's made the worst decisions. To me, it seems as if this board was really compromised.
 TAKEN LIGHTLY BY THE COUNCIL, BY THE CLERK'S OFFICE. THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE PEOPLE'S BILL. THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE UNANIMOUSLY PASSED BY THE PEOPLE, THE COUNCIL, THE CLERK'S OFFICE. WE ALL SHOULD HAVE WORKED COHESIVELY TOGETHER TO ENSURE TRANSPARENCY AS WELL AS ACCOUNTABILITY, HIRING
 to me a man with a background after you know that his background was disclosed and these things was disclosed about him we should have we should have start started all over just so this process right now wouldn't be compromised as it is now but I am I am definitely um
 I feel there's a bit of a hangman here tonight. I don't think the people will win, regardless if it goes to the mayor's office or if it stays in the clerk's office, as long as she wants to support Mr. Reynolds. So, yeah, I think that no one wins here tonight. We all lose. We all drop the ball. We all essentially have to pay the price at this point. Thank you. Thank you for your comments.
 Who do you have another person up? I only see a first name, maybe. We have Tiana and then we have Jordan. Tiana, if you could please state your name and address for the record, please. Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Tiana Batiste Waddell, 904 Thomas Street, 46601.
 I just, I wonder, first off, I am in opposition of it being in the mayor's office all has to do with trust. We talk about we want to rebuild trust. So where we go, this is supposed to rebuild trust, but it already feels like the trust is continuing to be broken. But I just wonder if the Common Council
 And thinking about Josh Reynolds and his situation, yes, he had write-ups in his employment file that would not show up on a background check, and he was paid $50,000. If he did something wrong, he would not get paid money back.
 In my opinion, he wouldn't get paid a settlement from his last employer. And so I just, I don't know if we're thinking about that, if we're keeping that in mind. And he's getting his, he volunteered to subpoena his records or to get his records, his employee file to show you all what if it comes back that he's telling the truth. And that's it, that he has been targeted. So just...
 to me, a way to move forward would be to hold him accountable. Like you would any other employee, he has to follow certain rules and laws and policies, and he receives write-ups. If he's not doing that, the way to move forward would be to keep this office where it is and hold him accountable like any other employee, but to move it into the mayor's office, it's, it's just not a good look. Um, it's not a good feel and it does continue to feel oppressive. Um,
 And I just wanted to say that because to me, if he's being paid, he got paid from his last employer, then he may have been targeted. So we need to move on past that and just hold him accountable like any other employee. But again, your minds are already made up. But I just wanted to plant that seed if anybody's thinking of it in that way. Thank you. Thank you for your comments.
 I believe that's at everybody that was. Yes. Okay. If you could please state your name and address. Jordan Bagger, 424 South Michigan Street, Unit 660. I don't have a whole lot more to add beyond what's already been said, and I agree with much of what the public has said in opposition to this bill.
 I do think it's and the question I keep raising is what are the unintended consequences of moving this into the mayor's office? Because in my dealings with James Mueller, since he was the chief of staff five years ago, he has absolutely been against having any kind of independent oversight of the police department. He's even told us in meetings that he feels that this is a duplication of services and is not needed.
 So for this council, I hear you all talk about trust and the need to listen to and include the community, but you're not doing that with making this decision that you're making right now. You're not including the public. You made a rash decision to file a bill without any consultation with the public whatsoever.
 And even as we bring that up and you all made statements in the media that we have to do this is the only way. That's absolutely not true. There are multiple ways of addressing this. You could hold up the budget right and force concessions from Clerk Jones. You could also allow for Josh to finish up his probationary period and then have an evaluation afterwards.
 So you need to listen more to the public and be willing to work with us instead of making decisions for us without us, because that's exactly what you're doing right now. In addition to that, there were, again, just on the issue of transparency and trust and the need to include the community. When we asked you all about your timeline, there was no inclusion of the public in your appointment process.
 if you look at the timeline that you all laid out and that you all presented there was no space for the for the public to weigh in on who your candidates are and how and and how they would be determined as uh the final candidates or the appointees none of that was included there and i talked to lori about this i talked to president white about this and those concerns have not been addressed if so privately maybe i don't know but they definitely have not been mentioned to us
 You know, also, I have grave concerns about collusion with the mayor's office just based on some of the comments that have been made. I talked to Councilman at the Build the Budget meeting, and he said something to me that was really, really interesting and a little surprising. He made the comment that, in reference to Clerk Jones, that he gave her options. He gave her an option. And I said, he? Who is he? And he said, the mayor.
 But she is her own independent office executive. Why would the mayor be setting the conditions in terms for her when the legislation is written as such, that she would have control over who is appointed to this position?
 And so I'm just, I have real concerns about collusion. A third of the council have, there've been calls for investigations for at least a third of this council related to the fact that some of you are getting $700,000 in city contracts through the city of South Bend. Some of you work as directors for programs that are directly funded by the mayor's office.
 some of you have filed false police reports against me which is a misdemeanor crime at least in the county in kosciuszko county so i have grave concerns about the direction that we're moving in and i think we need to have an honest conversation about what's happening what's not happening is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition to bill 108-21
 Hello, my name is Samuel Brown. I live at 222 Eastern Bar Street in the city of South Bend. I wasn't going to speak tonight because I had heard, listened, talked. Very, very disappointed in my community. Everybody should go home tonight from the Common Council. The whole thing is just unbelievable. It's like watching a bad movie. I mean, a real bad movie.
 and you're scared to go home and go to sleep. You know, we are better than this. You know, I feel sorry for Ms. Jones. I do. I feel sorry for Mr. Williams. You know, nobody's perfect. Nobody's perfect. And people of faith should be the first one to say that. You know, I mean, I don't make mistakes. But I'm shamed up and ask people to forgive me.
 We put you all on the council to govern for the city, for us to speak. Now we look at it and everybody's just going wild up here. Okay, what are you going to do now? You put in the mayor's office. He's got the power already. He's got the safety board. He can go keep that whenever he wanted to rule with the public. They've got serious complaints. So where do we go now?
 How do we fix this thing? It's all in your hands. Where do the people... I talked to... I don't want to make it quick. I talked to a gentleman, and a bullet came through my daughter's house when a young man got killed down on Brookfield. You know, and the gentleman said, you need to go and have the police chief fight. I'm saying, no. We as a community need to come together and try to fix this thing.
 Seriously, you know, I sit over there and I listen and I listen. But you know what? I am just too disappointed to even talk about this. Because your mind is made up. I understand that. So once again, the public, the loss. We have lost the public. Thanks for listening to my little speech. I could have stayed home and watched your Western. Thank you for your comments.
 Is there anybody else wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 108-21? My name is Torrance Chisholm, 1106 Johnson Street, South Bend, Indiana. We all have a background, but we all are capable of making a change within ourselves. The mayor is over the police chief. The police chief is over the department. If the mayor was capable of keeping things under control, it would be done already.
 Us, you know, well, y'all blaming him for his past is unacceptable, very unacceptable. We all have a past. We all did wrong. So instead of blaming this man for what he did, we got to blame ourselves for what we did in the past. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 108-21?
 Tysha Merchism, 1106 Johnson Street. I'm against this bill on behalf of my opinion. If you guys are, how should I put this? Y'all minds are already made up. So it's like, if this guy has done his job and y'all nitpicking, y'all knew what y'all wanted from the get-go. It was no need for y'all to hire this man in a position that he in. Yeah.
 But if y'all feel like he attacking y'all and y'all got something to hide, what's the purpose of attacking him? He's going to figure out one way or another if y'all got something to hide. So to vote him out of his position, I feel like it's not right. Because then nobody vote y'all out of y'all position when y'all got voted in. We voted y'all because we thought y'all was going to make a change in our community and y'all really not. How can we get y'all to come out and support us?
 Any organization that's going on when it got anything to do with gun violence, police attacking younger black men or anything when y'all can't even come out and support anything. When we have marches and now one of y'all in any district standing up and walking with the mayor not walking with us. So what are we supposed to do as a community if y'all not there to really help us or support us? We feel like we left out and now that y'all put him out, we really feel like we don't have nobody because who else can we trust?
 We can't trust y'all. We can't trust the police. All we got is God to trust and hope God that we know God gonna have our back. But how is y'all gonna have our back in this community? That's all I gotta say. For your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 108-21? Hello everyone. My name is Jonathan Coleman, 501. I'm from Wisconsin, Wisconsin.
 I also against that bill also. I don't like my cousin when she said, how come you guys can like help somebody in this community and y'all not doing y'all part either? So what? I'm not going to say so what. It's against Minister Reynolds about his background. But y'all, I feel some type of way about you guys. Y'all not helping us. Y'all don't do nothing for us. So what's the point you guys trying to,
 attack him, but look at you guys' background. How many of y'all had like, you know, different backgrounds about you guys being hired and who, I really want to know. I just, I just, I want to know seriously. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 108-21? I don't see anyone. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Is he on?
 I don't see his. Let me see. I think it's Hari Murthy. Hari, if you're on, would you please state your name and address for the record if you wish to speak in opposition? I don't see anybody on there. I don't see anybody in the chat there now. I believe that he's live. I don't know if he can get back in. He was in. And he did say he wanted to speak, but I don't see him right now. Can you ask him, he's asked for you to unmute him.
 We don't, I don't see him. I don't see his name right now. I'm trying to find his name. I see him. Okay. Yeah. We can't unmute him, but I do see him in the meeting. He has to unmute himself. Hari, if you can hear me, please unmute yourself and state your name and address for the record, please. Okay. I don't think he can hear me.
 So that that's the last person expressing interest to speak. Okay, if he would like to, if he's not able to communicate at this time, you can always send us an email and we can return it to you in writing on what your question is. I don't know what else to do if he's having a technical issue at this time. So can we move on to the next whoever else that may want to speak in opposition to the bill? Okay, seeing none. Okay.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 108-21 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding Bill 108-21? Yes. Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you. In connection with several things that were stated by the public, this is not about the
 strictly about Mr. Reynolds' background. This is about a process in an ordinance that is not being followed. I would like to read you a section of the ordinance, and I'm pretty sure none of you have seen the product that is supposed to come from this. The director is authorized to adopt such rules and procedures as the director may deem appropriate for the proper administration and enforcement of this review office.
 All such rules and procedures shall be adopted only after posting of the rules and procedures proposed to be adopted on the city's website for public review and comment at least 30 days prior to the effective date of such rules and procedures. Upon adoption, the director shall maintain a copy of these rules and procedures in the director's office.
 So please, if you have seen these rules and procedures and seen them on the website, please contact me independently and let me know because I've seen nothing of them. Secondly, the sponsors of the bill sat down with Clerk Jones and Mr. Reynolds and pleaded.
 that you please take one of the bill's sponsors with you when you go out in the public. The ordinance is very clear that you cannot speak about issues around the board. Very clear.
 and that has never transpired we have never been invited to attend any of the public meetings there have been constant comments and references made to the community police review board that
 is not within the purview of the clerk's office or Mr. Reynolds independently. That is directly under the purview of the council per this ordinance. And we have asked repeatedly, and that also has not occurred. And just one more thing, if I may. I think it's extremely unfortunate that misinformation is being spread and fear is being used
 to try and bring this to a frothy head, if you will, by saying that you will have to go to the police department to file your complaints if this is moved to the mayor's office. That is not true. Yes, ma'am, they did. And...
 For Mr. Reynolds to say, excuse me, I am speaking. We have a point of order, please. For Mr. Reynolds to say that under the mayor, this will fall apart and not be functional. He has no proof of that. And he is trying to scare the community. Eric Logan.
 Mr. Malone, the public portion is closed. You cannot speak any longer. Unfortunately, you guys had an opportunity to speak. We have to regain order.
 Look, we're gonna have to ask you to be escorted out if you cannot follow the rules. We have given the public an opportunity to speak. Now we have to, the public comments have been closed. And so- That's why the people don't turn on the stage. Okay, okay. At this time, I'm gonna ask for a recess. Thank you. We don't wanna hear your podcast. You talking, you, Liz Hannaford.
 How long will we get for recess? Five minutes. Five minute recess. There'll be a five minute recess. We have a five minute recess. I'm going to the restroom. I have a rest room. Everybody. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five. You're going to get a five minute recess. That's why I stand with five.
 . Thank you. We are going to be resuming the meeting here.
 Very nice to meet you. Oh, that'd be fabulous. Thank you. Point we are going to resume the meeting. The public court, the public hearing portion of the meeting has been closed. I would ask everyone to please be respectful of the process.
 We are at the point now where we are asking council members to make statements regarding Bill 108-21. And if there's any further outbursts that are that disruptive, I will ask you to be removed from the chamber. So at this point, I believe it was Councilwoman Hammond, we were in the middle of, or had you finished your statement? Just to provide an encapsulation, there is an ordinance that needs to be followed.
 Complaints are not to be received until the board is seated. Multiple things that we have heard this evening are greatly concerning. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other council members that wish to make a statement? Councilman Davis? Yeah, actually it's not necessarily even a statement. I wanted to, cause I hear, like I said, the concerns of the community and them saying that they don't trust it being in the mayor's office
 And truth be told, none of us wanted that to happen. But, you know, obviously we're at a crossroads with this. So as I spoke with many of you prior before, prior to us coming in here, I am interested in offering an amendment. This is the right time for it. Am I right, Bob? Okay, great. And an amendment that sunsets where this particular department will sit under the mayor's office and be reverted back to the clerk's office.
 Well, stop it. Stop it. I'm going to ask for some support with the language because we didn't write this down. But the understanding is that that we will have a sunset clause that says that this office reverts back to the clerk's office. I think we play with it at the election cycle.
 when the change of election cycle happens. So in 2023, we have an election when the new council comes back in, some of us will be here, some of us won't. And and so what we are trying to accomplish is to make sure that this idea of independence is preserved. So help me out, Bob, please. Well, to the extent that you're offering the sunset amendment,
 I think we can certainly work on the exact language afterwards it but uh it I think the first thing to do is see if there's any support from the rest of the council members but the idea is that control or hiring and termination decisions will revert back to the clerk's office
 after the, is it after the next election or upon a new clerk taking office? Sure. That's exactly it. After a new clerk takes office. That's exactly it. Because I don't want to get the false impression that we wanted this to be under the mayor and keep it under the mayor's office. Clearly, that's not what any of us wanted. I mean, it passed 8-1, I think, you know, so we understood what we were doing there.
 However, circumstances have changed drastically. So we are making an attempt to correct it, but also make sure that we are putting a cover on it as well. So it does not appear to be some some hook and line, a sinker type deal. You know, somebody is playing a game, not playing a game. I just want to make sure that we have it all on paper.
 Yes, that language can certainly be amended to what we have. Again, if the council is in favor of that type of provision. Well, it's up to the council at this point. I presented it. I think that it's necessary. It provides the cover. It gives the public the support that they obviously are asking for. And so be it. I can make the motion that we do. You'd have to make a motion to amend.
 Uh, the the substance currently there. Yeah, and we we offer substitute. Well, you would first need a second on your motion. OK, well so moved second. Go ahead Troy. I guess I guess I would. I guess I would like some clarity on the specific. OK, so if it's automatic, will there be a Council vote? Will this be?
 Well, this is fragile, right? And this is very sensitive. So I'm going to ask you for your leadership on this as well. I had the idea. I had the thought process. Obviously, I'm not all the way clear on what should happen. But I do know that these people, the public, the folks that's come out here, they have a reasonable right. I get it. We should all get it right. So I want to make sure that they're still included in this process and given some sort of support as we move forward. Absolutely. Yeah.
 So what do you think? Do you think that we should? I would prefer to have it up to the council and make it a May and see where, who is the mayor and who is the clerk. And at that time, I think would be my preference. I have a question too. Go ahead. I would support that. Yes. At the election of the...
 of the new clerk that the council may consider to revert the CPRB back to the clerk's office. However, I'm just, I'm concerned about timing because we would all be in an election cycle at the same time. And so at the end of- Right, it will be at the risk, the new council is seated.
 So the new council. Whoever that is. Right. In January. That January. All nine new people. Yeah. Well, they may not be all nine new, but, you know, it'll be a new council. That's the term that was used, the new council. If it's one person moved, you know, it's still a new council. Any other discussion on this amendment? Could we talk about timing a bit? What do you mean? What about by the end of that calendar year?
 The November election would have occurred. Right. And the standing council can decide. I'm putting things out there for us to react. So it's either that or the new council. What do you think? I understand what she's suggesting. Yeah. I mean, how will we provide the cover? I'm fine with that. I just know if there's a new council and then the council that's leaving now has already made a decision for them.
 it makes it very difficult right especially with something like this obviously so i think that that personally and this is not a deal breaker for me what you just said it's not a deal breaker but what i think if the new count if there is a new council that comes in when there is a new council that comes in because it will be a new council do we take their ability to decide from them before they get in or allow them to make the decision when they get in
 and my vote would be for them to make their own decision yeah i think that also if you give it in may so it's up to that new council right um and i think maybe you say and maybe we take a recess and bob writes some language up real quick but but uh you know may and maybe may within the first six months of their of the new council uh
 I'm good with that. I really am. I just think that they deserve to be called since. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we deserve to cover as well. Absolutely.
 so i would i would make a motion for a recess to uh write some actual texts up before we on some text before we do that i believe councilman wax wanted to have some input on the subject so i'd like to get the full input from the council before we move any further please thank you um i would turn this to um council palmer and then and it's not fair to put you on the spot on an issue that you haven't had time to research
 Do you know that that would be legal and binding so that when you have a law that allows the council to trigger a change, I'm assuming that would not require administration support at that time. Is that something that we can do? I believe that it would be proper if the council made its or voiced its opinion in a resolution
 which could be either accepted or rejected by the mayor. So it would not be an amendment to this bill. You can make the amendment to this ordinance, but the sunset provision itself, the actual implementation of it, it would be by resolution of the council. The council would say in a resolution that it desires that the,
 office go back to the clerk's office, but the mayor would still have to approve that in in the veto or not veto the resolution. I think it would be a very difficult proposition to force the mayor to accept that type of resolution from this council.
 Well, that's why we're making policy then, right? That's why we will put it in place as policy, as language within this very substitute bill right now, right? That's correct. I think that if you're going to do it, you need to put the provision in this amendment to the ordinance. Right. And then let the mayor decide whether or not he wants to veto this ordinance as amended or let it go through. I'm...
 I'm pretty confident that that will happen, that he won't video it. I think I'm confident that we will have what we are looking for. So to reiterate my question, should this amendment to the amendment be approved and voted on in council and signed by the mayor's office? Down the road, if the council would decide to put it back in the mayor's office,
 would they be able to do that unilaterally by vote of the council or would that be something that again needs to be um signed off by the mayor i believe it could be done unilaterally by the council if that amendment is included in this amendment okay thank you all right are there any other question from council members at this time then at this time there was a motion on the floor
 A three-minute recess. For a three-minute recess. Type up some language for it. I'm with that. Amendment. I think that would be awesome. I really do. Okay. We are in recess. Second. All in favor? Aye. Thank you. Yeah. Okay. At this time, we are going to resume the council meeting. Thank you.
 And I believe Attorney Palmer that you have the amendment that's going to be included from Councilman Davis. The the motion for the amendment in and I'm reading it because Councilman Davis may not be able to read my writing. No, I can't come on. But it would add a paragraph to Section 2-12.2.7.
 which would then read the transfer of responsibility for the community police review office shall resort back to the clerk's office by resolution of the common council upon election of a new clerk. Thank you.
 Was that a shall or may? That was a shall. It could be a may. It's a shall upon resolution. It shall revert back to the clerk's office by resolution, so the council would have to pass the resolution. Yeah, that works. And that would take the discretion away from the mayor's office to keep it. Okay. Thank you. And I second that motion.
 Okay, so there is a motion on the floor to accept the amendment, and there is duly seconded. Would we please take the roll call, please? Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilman Davis? Aye. Councilman Lee? Aye. Councilman Warner? Aye. Councilman Wax? Aye. Councilman Naskowski? Aye. Councilman Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilman Hammond? Aye. President White? Aye.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 108-21 will be sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation as amended. Chair, there was one more typographical error in the ordinance in the definition section.
 There are two small letter I's. I believe that we should, as long as we're going to be submitting this as a substitute, we should correct that second I and make it a J. Second. OK, the typographical error as noted by. In Section 2, dice 12.2.2. OK, has been a motion to correct that to a J and duly seconded.
 Could we please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. The motion has passed.
 At this point, we are going to move on to... No, from point of order, we're still on council discussion. And then I think we have to actually have a motion to pass the bill as is amended. Okay, so I lost track of where we were with all of the amendments. So at this time, we are going to... Bob, can you give us direction where we're at for the public as well as myself at this point? Okay.
 i believe we're at the point of uh council discussion on the amendments and uh motion for a recommendation favorable or unfavorable to the full to the full council we're still in the committee of the whole okay so would someone like to entertain a motion you know i'm going to ask the question i i i'll do the motion but i'm going to ask a question and i'm going to ask for the leadership of this council on this
 I'm sure the public really didn't understand what just took place. I am most positive. So can we just get a recap on layman's terms on what just took place? Then I will make the motion on. Attorney Palmer, would you mind giving a recap of the event since we have had a couple of recesses, amendments, and then a Scrivener's errors that was corrected as well? So we're all on the same track. Sure. The easy...
 change is that there is a typographical error in the definition section. There are two letter I's, one for incapacitated person and the other for mayor. We will change that second letter I to a J in the substitute. The substantive amendment is that the transfer of responsibility
 for the review office will take place and the mayor will assume responsibility however that transfer of responsibility will go back to the clerk's office upon resolution by the common council upon election of a new clerk therefore when there is an election of a new clerk
 the common council made by resolution, bring the responsibility back into the office of the clerk. And under this wording, the mayor would not have a discretion to reject that. So the independence that the community has been asking for will be restored with the idea of it being back in the clerk's office. Correct. Thank you, sir. Upon the elect possibly upon the election of a new clerk. Absolutely. I got it. Everybody else got it.
 Got it. Okay. Okay. And what was this voted on was the amendment itself. I'm sorry. And so the vote we just took was on the amendment itself. Yes. So now we're going to move to vote for the entire bill 108-21, which is up for, as amended, which is up for discussion at this time. Are there any more comments? I just think that, again, this is fine.
 this to the community we have heard you we we are listening and we are serious about making sure that this citizen reward becomes what it needs to be for our city um this was a very tough decision but as you can see we're trying to do our best to to make it right so i just want to say uh thank you councilman davis for adding that
 amendment and for your forethought. Thank you for supporting. Any other comments at this time, Councilwoman and President White? I would like to say that I do appreciate
 The community. I'm sorry. Okay. Can everyone hear me? Okay. I would like to say that again, this has not been an easy decision, nor have we taken, I can only speak for myself at this time, taken it lightly. I do appreciate the comments that Dr. Heller made.
 has brought before us not only comments but questions, and that we and I are ready to do the heavy lifting. We know it's not going to be easy, but we will ensure that the public will be engaged every step of the way. The question that was asked, what happens after the vote?
 What role would the public have? The role of the mayor's office? And then how do we move forward, not only with looking at a job posting, what would that look like? What's the timeframe? What is the role of the public? All of that will be shared very quickly, and that we will be scheduling time
 times where we'll be meeting with individuals within the community to talk about building trust, to talk about engagement, but most importantly, that how do we go about that to ensure that we will have the level of support.
 that is needed for the Citizen Review Board, because it's all about, you know, again, I heard, you know, comments that we have to learn how to work together. I heard about restored justice, but both parties have got to be in agreement.
 in terms of what that will look like and also that we have to lay aside any issues or concerns about power you know no one can tell me what to do blah blah blah that holds true across the board and cross the lines but the commitment will be made as of today uh that we will be doing that heavy lifting and hopefully we can move back to the point that there's a level of trust
 Or understanding. Thank you, President White. Is there any other comments? Pleasure of the Council. I hear you entertain a motion. Move for adoption.
 Point of order, is it to send to full council? To full council. I thought this was the second reading, right? This is the first still? We're still at first? It has to go back to the full council. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought we were second. The committee of the whole. Man, it's 10 o'clock. So this is the part. Yeah. I'm sorry. Yeah. We're going to be here till midnight. You go ahead and make it mine. So the motion would read that substitute bill
 108-21 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation as amended in the Committee of the Whole. Second. It's been a motion made and seconded. Could we please call the roll?
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nieskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. That'll be sent to the full council. Substitute Bill 108-21 as amended with a favorable recommendation.
 Okay, now we're going to move on to the next bill, which will put us at the beginning of where this was at initially before we move those to second reading. So we're going to go to Bill 101-21. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 101-21 a second reading? Yes.
 10121, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending various sections of the South Bend Municipal Code within Chapter 16 at Articles 1 and 2 and within Chapter 17 at Article 2, Division 4, Article 4, Article 14, and Article 15 to provide a comprehensive adjustment to rights for South Bend utility customers in the city's furnishment.
 of refuge, sewer, water, stormwater in the low-income customer assistance program. Thank you. I'd like to make a motion to hear the substitute version. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Can we do an all in favor? Or do we have to take a roll call? Okay. Could you please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye.
 Council Member Niesgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Sorry, what did we vote? I'm waiting to accept the second. Okay. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Mr. Horvath, you wish to give a, I'm sorry, is there a committee report on Bill 101-21?
 Bill 101-21 was heard in personnel finance and comes with no recommendation. It was the original bill, not the substitute bill. Thank you. I see Mr. Horvath is there. If you could state your name and address and then present to us the key points regarding the bill. Thank you. Let me pull up this presentation real quick here to get feedback. Okay. Can you see it okay? Yes. Okay.
 thank you council members eric corvath i'm the public works director with offices on 13th floor of this building i'd like to present to you tonight substitute bill 101-21 which is on comprehensive rate plan for our utilities as well as the low-income customer assistance program
 The revisions I'm going to go over just the revisions tonight. We've spent quite a bit of time having public information sessions and hearings as well as tours to see all the projects and the need. But sorry, you guys getting feedback the better.
 Based on the public hearings that we've had and the information sessions, we've received quite a bit of feedback, both from the council members as well as our residents, and we've used that feedback to sit down, take a hard look at this ordinance, and come back with this substitute bill.
 you will find that one of the first things we did was we made sure that there's no increase. There were two increases that were happening in 2021. We made sure there's no increase that will happen in 2021. In addition to that, in all of the five years that there's an increase, those increases went down from the previous bill. So let me quickly go through the changes and then I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have.
 so the first thing is as i mentioned we delayed the solid waste increase to 2022 um
 And to shore that account up, we will be utilizing some outside funding, $1,000,000 to make sure that we not only pay back the money that's borrowed from the solid waste to bring that fund back in the black, but also to make sure it's solvent in the upcoming year. And so that is the first change. We also made a couple minor adjustments in the program itself.
 one of which was the addition of the major appliance pickup program. So as part of our large item pickup that you get one per month will include major appliances. So if you have a dishwasher or
 stove, washing machine, refrigerator, you can get one of those picked up every month. We will require that anything with refrigerant that it's appropriately disposed of by a certified person before we pick it up, we can't transport that with refrigerant.
 The other option would be the residents to take it directly to the scrap yard, but this program then will allow people who can't get rid of large appliances to be able to do that as well. Minor clarification, yard waste program, primarily that twigs up to two inches in diameter can go in your yard waste bin, and anything from two inches to six inches then can be bound and picked up as a special,
 call-in program as well. Just to reiterate, the yard waste program also has a special call-in pickup, so if you participate in the bin program, there's also a separate program where once a month you can call in and we'll pick up any large amounts of debris you have up to a cubic yard.
 which is about 10 of those big paper bags if you have those. So let's say you have a big cleanup that you're doing in the spring and you want to get rid of extra and it doesn't all fit in your bin, you can call in to get that picked up as well. It also delays the yard waste increases until 2022. And then in addition, we've made changes to the customer assistance program. We got some feedback on this.
 We had an 87 cent increase that was starting immediately. We've pushed that back. So there's no increase in 2021 and 2022. In 2023, we will have a 14 cent increase. In 24, we'll have 14 cents. And in 25, we'll have 15 cent increase.
 Now we also decreased the additional cap credit. So remember in the first bill we were increasing the credit side of this by 50%. Now we're only increasing it by 25%, but it is still going up.
 And in addition to that, we had heard that there are people on the fringe, so we've broadened the reach of the program by adding a fourth tier for the CAP credit. So that fourth tier is now 60 to 80% of area median income. And what that does is it grabs a much larger population that we can get into the program. So we make sure that we're getting additional people in the program. And then finally, the,
 it improves the way we're going to run this program. And so we're going to try to make it a lot easier for people to get into the program. We're going to try to make sure that there aren't any barriers to entry like caps on LIHEAP and make sure that the way people apply for the program will be easy so that we can make sure we get as many people in the program as we possibly can.
 And then any losses that we have over those first number of years of CAP will be made up with outside funding sources. So it's it's hard for us to estimate what those are not knowing exactly how many participants will be in the
 And so once we start getting numbers on how many people are in the program and that'll, you know, obviously change over the years, we had expected, having started in January, that this point would be a lot further along with the numbers than we are currently. And so I think it just takes a lot longer to get programs out and get people to understand what the programs are and comfortable with applying for them.
 We'll monitor that and see where we are financially in the hopes that we won't need to do anything there until after 2025.
 um so as part of this program I had mentioned it adds a broader reach um and if you look here I tried to outline the current program incomes uh so if you are a household size of one uh the way the current program the cap program is set up
 is that you have to make $25,961 or less to be eligible for the program. That new annual income will be $41,200 for a household of one. For a household of three, it goes from $41,937 to $52,950.
 The final thing that I wanted to share is that we did not make any changes to sewer water rates. These were both ones we felt like were necessary to move some of the capital forward, and they were funding capital programs. And so this
 rate does still fund $45 million in necessary water capital of the $150 million in needs identified, as well as $85 million for our long-term control plan, which is a $276 million program. So this will be phase one of the long-term control plan will be funded through these rates.
 It also finally delays the residential stormwater increases until 2024. So the rate will remain $2 on a residential rate until 2024 when it'll go up to $2.25.
 And then finally, just a housekeeping measure moving Section 1781 to 1721. This is a section of the ordinance that has the 14% surcharge for outside customers. We're not changing anything operationally. We're not changing how people are getting billed on that. It just should really be in the rates portion. And so it was really in the wrong area of the municipal code. And so we're trying to correct that.
 That's all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions council may have. I appreciate your support through this process and your input as we've gone along and hope that you'll support it. Thank you. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions? President White.
 okay i just have one question first we'd like to um thank um mr horvath for listening to the council and the changes and uh the concerns that we had in regards to the original plan and that what we have before us is a compromise and it's all about compromising but also
 what has been done really, I believe, will assist our citizens as it's going to be a phase in, but even the phase in, it's not going to be at the original percentage that we were given. So my question is, we do know at the federal level that there could be a federal infrastructure bill coming forward. And if that occurs,
 I would like for us to come back and look at those dollars, and if we could decrease rates and also look at infrastructure, if we have those federal dollars, it'll be a good opportunity for us to respond again to what the needs. We're looking at capital improvement and we're looking at operational. Hopefully that federal infrastructure bill
 forthcoming and that we will have the opportunity to revisit this again and to look at our race as well. Yeah, we would be happy to do that in the event that the you know we do get money in the federal infrastructure bill that can go directly to some of the capital needs that we have. We'll absolutely sit down with the Council and take a look at
 being able to add additional capital or being able to reduce rates in accordance with those monies coming in. If it's something that is money like lead service line repairs that we don't currently have in the program,
 and it's only used for that, then obviously that we can't adjust rates because we don't have the rates built for that part of the program, but any other capitals that we've got built into the program, of course, we can sit down and do that. Appreciate that. Thank you. Welcome. Councilman Warner. Thank you. I want to thank you, Eric, through this process.
 It's been seven weeks, six meetings now, four opportunities for public hearing and kind of being very open to discussion and creating the compromise. So you said even with this, we're looking at $100 million short on current infrastructure needs.
 we've got the need for the EPA consent decree of 267 million correct and is that going to are we still looking at bonds through that or are we going to in you know five seven years have to try to find money for that yeah so um
 DEFINITELY THAT'S AN ISSUE THAT WE NEED TO STILL RESOLVE, BECAUSE THAT'S, YOU KNOW, IN OUR CURRENT CONSENT DECREE, WE HAVE 10 YEARS TO DO $713 MILLION.
 CSO work, the consent decree that we're working to get DOJ and EPA on board with is a $276 million consent decree, but it also gives us an additional, I think, seven years, seven or eight years to do it. So, it gives us additional time to be able to spread that burden, but that will be a burden that comes. And so, one of the issues is as
 Bonds roll off and you free up room from previous bonds. You can roll new bonds on without having impact on rates, but some of this will have additional rate impact over the next 18 years to be able to get to the $276 million, unless we have a significant amount of federal dollars that come in to support a CSO program.
 so hopefully that answered your question it did yeah i think uh you know we've made a compromise but i just want to be clear that even though we've made this compromise now the council uh you know we're putting a lot on the next council the council in seven five years or seven years may have to consider significant great hikes yeah thank you i appreciate all your work on it welcome
 Councilman Lee. Yes, Mr. Hall, I thank you for going back to the drawing board and trying to find compromise. One of the things that I was asking is what about the people who are not low income but moderate income? Can you talk again about the compromise that you guys have made and how people who may not be low income but still struggling to pay their bills can be a part of the program?
 So, again, you know, one of the things that we're trying to do is actually make it so that it's easier for people to be part of the program, period, and have barriers to entry be reduced so that of the 17,000 people who are eligible for being in the new program, we can get a considerable number of them in the program.
 But as part of this too, we actually expanded the limits on what the income eligibility would be. And so we went from what used to be 60% of the state median household income to 80% of the area median income, and you can see on this chart here that the first or the middle
 column here that says current program, annual income. That's where
 our eligibility guidelines are at this moment in time without the new substitute bill ordinance being passed if we pass the new ordinance it'll go from 25,961 for household of one to 41,200 as their annual income so if they make 41,200 or less in a household of one they will be eligible for the new ordinance and they will be eligible for the new ordinance.
 for the lowest tier of our program. So, and that tier is $8. And then the second tier is 14.25. The third tier is 19.25. And the fourth tier is 25.50. The last three are all 25% more than what the previous program was.
 So you can see in all cases, these income guidelines are a little bit higher. So they were trying to catch people on the fringe who are still, you know, the people are still in need and impacted by large utility bills across the board, whether water, sewer, electric, heat, anything, as well as all of their other bills that they have due.
 one of the things that we looked at as we were looking through the proposal and the changes was the fact that uh the the impact you know us coming out of covet pandemic and the years uh really won't start seeing an increase to about 23 20 is it 20 20 2023 um so there will be increases in in 22 primarily um
 on the water side. This is passed, though we do need to go through IURC and that is no short process. The last time we did water rates, after the council passed the rate, it took,
 probably at least a year might even been over a year before the iurc approved that rate uh so you're probably uh somewhere between nine and twelve months before our first um water rate would take a take effect and that was one of our concerns is people still being in covet and being hit with a higher or higher water rate i i did see that there was there were there were savings and things were pushed back eventually we'll we'll have to
 We'll have to get there, but at least we can slow down that before it.
 While we're not in this season, so yeah, if I may again, there's this low income household water assistance program that will provide assistance for water, sewer, trash. That program has not been rolled out by the state yet, but it was money that was that came in through the CARES Act and subsequent act.
 And so they're still trying to figure out how they're going to manage that program. But the hope is that we can use that program to significantly bring down people's burden that they have right now. And I know the mayor is also very interested in working with the council on additional pandemic relief on existing debt that individuals have on their water and sewer bill.
 We are very concerned that when we get to the point that we go back to shutting people's water off for non-pays, that we don't want them to be in such a big hole that they'll never get out of it. And so we'll definitely be working with the council in the near future on some of that and hope that you'll support additional pandemic relief for our customers. Councilman Wags?
 Thank you. And thank you, Eric. I appreciate the work that you've done, being responsive to the feedback of me and many of my colleagues. As far as the CAP program itself, I haven't crunched the numbers. Is the total amount of assistance greater than the initial proposal? And I know you can't fully answer that without knowing who applies yet, but...
 Do you have any analysis on that?
 No, so on the previous program, I can tell you that we made some assumptions on the number of people that would be in the program based on Indianapolis's program. And we have not, you know, now that's starting January, so we're not even one year through, but we have not met those numbers. And so currently we're taking in about twice as much in income than we're paying out in the credits.
 in the existing CAP program. In the new CAP program, again, these were intended to be revenue neutral when we set them up, and we'll continue to monitor the money that's coming in on the credits and the money that we're, I'm sorry, the money coming in to pay for those credits and the money going out on credits.
 We do anticipate that we will not be able to meet that full need and that we'll be subsidizing the cap fund to the tune of somewhere between $1 and $3 million over this period of time. So that's our best guess right now. And those are based on, I believe it was, you know, I'll have to figure out what the percent is.
 uh coverage was on that i don't recall if it was at 60 or 90 percent but and that makes it that makes sense to me with uh arp funds which are intended to assist people in light of coven and difficult situations that they're with my concern is that we're in a sense ramping up a program that at some point the funding's going to go away and then you said we might have a gap of one to three million
 I don't envy the next council, whoever they may be, that has to be at a decision where their choice is to either cut this program that people have been relying on or to have a separate rate increase to cover this difference here. So, yeah, that's something that makes me nervous.
 Well, I appreciate your comments and I think you know one of the things is we need to make sure reporting back to the Council. We need to be watching those numbers ourselves to make sure that.
 We're getting a good feel for what direction they're going in. We did decrease the credit by from 50 to 25% because we were also worried about that. And then we also built in increase in the cap rate in years 23, 24 and 25 to tune smaller than we originally had. But by the time you get to 2025, there will be a 43 cent increase in the customer assistance program.
 the the charge that we have on that side of things so we'll go from a dollar 75 right now to that plus the 43 cents but again this this isn't being presented as a temporary covid measure this is being presented as a long-term fix yeah okay thank you yep Councilwoman McBride thank you I have a couple of uh concerns still with it being a
 the long term fix some of my conversation. It while I do appreciate the compromises and appreciate looking at the information that administration have provided, it looks like it was just merely a delay. And still the residential impact
 the burden is still on the residents and I know that it from the storm all of my charts that that increases staying at the two dollars and then going up to 225 but it's transferred in the other areas of trash and I can't remember what I just did with all my paperwork
 But it's still showing over the course of the five years, unless I'm misreading it, that it's only a 50 cent change in the original proposal. And I know with property taxes being high and still not out of COVID, it seemed like the numbers are rising and mandates are being put in order.
 My thought has been, unless there's something different, because if I understood it correctly, and it seems like it was just confirmed, that once we pass this, it's not like the council can come, it's not an appetite for the council to come back and say, if we want federal COVID funds, we can now take a look at it and lower the rates back. So...
 I just think that it's a burden still. People are having a negative impact and with property taxes and a whole plethora of items that are happening to the economy, still I've always stood on why not pass the
 American rescue plan portion and come back and revisit it in a year or so with a projected because all of this is unknown. The only thing that's finite to me is increasing the residents increase and that's going in blind with not knowing. But once we do it, it's not like we're going to say OK, we're going to now take it back and the increases are going back down. So I'm still unsure of that.
 Is there any other comments from Councilwoman Hammond? Eric, thank you for the presentation and for listening to the Council's concerns around this issue. Could you just give an overview of what the community outreach is to inform people of their eligibility for these types of programs?
 How does that transpire? Sure. Yeah, so we have a marketing director that works really hard to make sure she's getting the word out and I can send you a list on any of our programs.
 how many times we've tried to promulgate something, whether it's through social media, whether through sending out postcards to each individual resident, whether it's putting in a water bill, whether it's a news article or on the radio. There's probably more we can do, maybe even with radio PSAs and some other things, but yeah.
 Again, I'm all ears if council members have suggestions, and I mean that with true sincerity because it feels like,
 we try really really really hard to let people know about programs but it's very difficult to get people to understand they've got so much going on in their lives to get it to the point where everyone does know about the program and so if this is passed one of our big things will be the the CAP program
 We've got the credits in place through the end of the year. We would start the new program at the beginning of 2022, and we would use the remainder of the year to really try to get people geared up and get him to start doing the application process. We'll have an online application
 We're trying to limit the number of questions that they have on there. We're trying to make it easier to reenter the program so that once you're in it, if something doesn't change with your income, you don't need to go through that full process again. We will retain students.
 The right to check on information that we've been given, but there's not going to be a direct verification process, so I think you know a lot of those things are all intended to make sure that as many people as are eligible in the city South Bend for the programs we hopefully can get them into the programs. But I'll tell you anywhere you go anywhere
 in any city you won't see 100% use of any program. And so, you know, our goal will be to get as many people as we can and to do as much as
 you know, marketing of the program as possible. Again, I think I shared some of the flyers we sent out on the emergency rental assistance that the county was very helpful in doing with us. And they paid for the printing and mailing of those. And we sent them out to quite a few of our customers that we felt like were,
 uh customers that would be in need of that program and i think those are types of things that we can do is direct mailings we can do direct ads on social media that are targeted to certain areas so that we can try to make sure there's a better chance of them seeing it um you know thank you welcome president white i just have one last question that as we look at the projected hopefully federal infrastructure dollars that
 this council along with administration would come back and talk about the impact. And based on those dollars, we could actually reduce some of the proposed rates. Is that correct? Yeah. And by the time this council can reduce rates. Yes, absolutely correct. So we're not logged into this. I mean, we're passing it if it passes, but it does not say that we cannot come back and revisit this again. That's right.
 absolutely sure councilman warner yeah go ahead um so are you this plan uses arp dollars and proposes to use arp dollars i think that number was between five and seven million is that right you might remember right yeah um so
 I can't speak to whether it be ARP dollars. What I can say is it will be non-utility water, wastewater or solid waste dollars. There's likelihood that significant amount is going to be ARP dollars. Councilman Davis. Yeah, I asked a question last time you were here about the amount of people that will be turned off if the moratorium ended or we started enforcing the water rate. Did you get that number for me?
 Oh, shoot. I don't know if I do have that number. If not, you can get to me in the morning. Seriously. Yeah. So and I will send you that. So two things.
 We do intend on making sure that beyond the federal assistance that we're going to try to get people taken care of, that we work as administration and council on a relief package so that we make sure we don't, that we're not in that situation where we're turning people off when we go to start the shutoff program again. Now there has to be a point in time that we're going to have to come back to that.
 but we don't feel that that time is right now. And, you know, because this has gone on for a year and a half, we've got people that have multiple months of bills that have accumulated that if we don't get them out of the hole, they're they probably will never get out of the hole. And we'll just be in this,
 you know, horrible circle of turning them off and having them pay extra because they got turned off. And that's not a good place for any of us to be. Well, I only ask because that would give me a gauge on how many people really are in a situation where they can't pay. Not that I will believe the 100 percent of people that are not paying are in that category. I won't believe that. I just think some people will take advantage of the situation and they do.
 But it will still give me a gauge on, you know, the approximate amount of people in this city who obviously need the assistance that the government can and should give out. Thank you. You're welcome. So I'll get that done before you tomorrow, right? Yes. Okay. If not sooner. Okay. Is that all this? I'd like to say something. I'm sorry, Councilor, I just want to ask some more. I don't have a question, but you said we could.
 This is for the, yeah. I just want to be clear. I just want to thank you, Mr. Horvath, for all your work and listening to the council and whatever public comments came in about this bill. I, you know, no one wants their utility rates increased. I mean, that's...
 That's the honest thing. But we all, I think we all agree that we want clean water, not just for us, but for future generations. We want to be able to maintain our utilities and these projects. And so I very much appreciate the compromise that you're proposing here.
 My.
 And I and I support them. I I'm what I what I'm afraid of is that, UM, you know, we continue to kick the can down the road, and we've done that too many times already. And so this doesn't pay for everything that we need to do. And so we just need to keep that in the forefront of our minds. We have this is what government does. This is our responsibility.
 to be able to upgrade these utilities. And so they're hard decisions, but it's something that we have to do. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Horvath. And I would like to thank you for, again, coming for us tonight and, again,
 making the presentation, making the compromise for us once more. I don't have any questions. I think all the questions have been vetted here. So at this time, I'm going to probably go to the public hearing portion of the meeting. So at this time, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 101-21? If you could please state your name and address for us, please.
 My name is James Sims. I live at 1636 Florence Avenue on the west side in South Bend. I know you're saying that this bill for to increase the revenue for water and all this different stuff. I noticed on my bill there's about 10 or 12 different things that I'd be charged for on my water bill. One of them is clean air.
 I'd like to ask this gentleman, what is he using to clean my air? Are you speaking in favor of the... No, I'm not speaking in favor for the bill. I'm speaking because I want to understand what am I being charged for. Okay, at this point, the public hearing, we are hearing those speaking in favor of the substitute bill. And then after that, we will go those into opposition of. Oh, okay. That'll work too. I'll wait. Thank you, sir.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of substitute Bill 101-21? Clerk Jones, is there anyone in the chat that wishes to speak? There's no one in the chat that is wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Okay, thank you. Then at this time, we are going to, if anyone from the public wishes to speak in opposition of Bill 101-21. Sorry, sir, I didn't know how many people may be in the chat.
 And please just make sure you state your name and address for the record. Sharon Benicki, 3822 Ford Street.
 I've been crunching some numbers and going over things, and I know Eric hates that I bring up the tax rate. But the fact of the matter is, if my house was in Mishawaka, my property tax bill for the year would be $117 less than what I'm paying to live on the west side of South Bend. If you took my house and put it out in Warren Township.
 my tax bill would be $234 less a year than what it is to live on the west side of South Bend. Now, he says we can't use all our tax money for update. I keep saying if you weren't taking so much of my tax dollars in property taxes, I wouldn't be here complaining about $3 a month.
 every month for five years, increasing it. You're taking it every which way and we don't have it. I did send in a FOIA to the city legal. I asked them two questions. I wanted to know how many residential customers there were as of March 31st, 2019, 2020, and 2021. And as of
 March 31st, 2021, how many customers were current? 30 days past due, 60 days, and 90 days. The only answer I got was those of 2019, there were 34,009 residential customers.
 In 2020, there was 33,949. So from 19 to 20, you lost 60 residential customers. They did not give me the number for March of 2021. So I don't know what that number is, but I'm sure you've lost more. And they said that they don't have the capability to pull the numbers to see how many residential customers are current 30 days, 60 days, or 90 days past due.
 I find that hard to believe since he just told Henry he'd get him the numbers by tomorrow. As for the major pickup of appliances, you're going to put scrappers out of business. They live for those that people drive around looking for the major appliances. That's how they make their living. I've got two neighbors that that's how they pay their bills, right?
 by going by and picking up major appliances. So that's not a deal or an enhancement to the water bill. That's it. Thank you for your comments. Well, I'm back again. Thank you. My name is James Sims. I live at 1636 Florence Avenue on the west side. Okay. There's a lot of different stuff that's on my water bill that really shouldn't be on there because I want to know how is he cleaning the air?
 you know i get charged for clean air but my air quality still is terrible my water i can't even drink the city water i have to buy bottled water i haven't drunk city water since oh i would say 1985 last time i drunk city water because city water makes me sick it also makes my grandkids sick
 and i don't don't tell me oh it's probably where you live at it's probably the pipes in your house no it's not i don't care who house i go to i can't drink the city water so uh i don't know how clean the city water or where the city water comes from but uh it's really not that clean if you boil city water and then let it sit in a clear glass
 You let it sit until it gets cold and you look at it, you see the settlement sits in the bottom of it look like slime. So, I mean, I'm not trying to deter y'all from drinking water or nothing. But, you know, he's talking about how much cleaning and cleanliness he's doing. And he's going to raise stuff up to make to get a little more money for the company or whatever. But we'll even when you take a bath.
 You know, you got slimy stuff. I don't want to take up too much time. But anyway, I'd just like, you know, to hear his comment on how he's cleaning the air and the water and stuff when it's not really clean. So, yeah, I can give him the thing if you want. I don't know. Thank you. Eric, do you want to rebuttal at this time? You have five minutes for rebuttal. Yeah, I don't rebuttal. I'll just do clarifications. Okay.
 I'm sorry, Eric. I didn't realize that's after. So sorry. It's been a long night. Isaac Hunt, 138 East Broadway. We always put the increases on the residents. We just did this with the school corporation. And we didn't have a problem with helping our school corporation because our children are important. Our water, clean water and everything else is important. But why is it always on the residents? We got the CARES Act money. This is a projection.
 of what they think, how much money the rates need to be and what needs to go for it before. I mean, in the future. We don't know how much transportation money that we're going to get in this coming in from the care package and that type of stuff. It's not fair to continue to raise our property taxes over and over again. It's not fair to keep raising our water bill. My water bill is astronomical and it doesn't make sense. And I understand we have things that we need to take care of.
 But if we kick the can this far, we can't kick it until we find out what's actually going to be coming in so you can kind of have an actual projected budget. You've been kicking it this long, but then you say we're going to be able to come back and bring the rates back down. Y'all named me one time, y'all took money from us, and you came back and gave it to us. Name one time, because if you did, I missed it. Because if you raise the rates, I guarantee you the next council is not going to come back and lower the rates.
 And Mr. Harford does a great job. I'm not speaking on that behalf. He does a great job. But as a resident that's paying property taxes, that's constantly going up. I could live in Granger if I pick up my house, but I live on the southeast side paying that kind of property tax. It's not fair. And it's just like she mentioned about the county, one county, different stuff like that. We really got to examine where we spend our money and how we spend it.
 And we have funding that's coming in from the federal government. Let's be patient a little bit longer and not put it on the residents that's working at Wendy's for $13 an hour that can't afford to be on that program. Think about that one. $37,000 a year, three kids or one kid, one person. Will they be able to be on it? That's a 50% increase. That's not a lot to everybody else. But I work with a lot of people that that's a lot to them.
 I work with a lot of people that's struggling right now and the numbers are going up. I work with a lot of people that's trying to find employment. Let's just try to keep a driver's license. Now, do we need an increase? Do we do we need some things being done? I believe we do. But if we've been kicking the can this long, let's kick it to see what we actually get in and then make an informed decision and not put it on the next council. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. It's been a long night. Yeah.
 My name is Rodney Gadsden. I live at 734 South Clearview Place. I'm a Westside resident. The lady that spoke previously, she's correct. I mean, if I took the house I'm trying to buy, if I took my house anywhere in the city, Mitchell Walker, I can take my house to Mitchell Walker, and I don't have these problems. But here's something that struck me when Ms. Horvath said, no disrespect to you already.
 We ain't even got the infrastructure right. We can't put a light post right in some areas of our town. I work with tenants. I work with low income tenants. And you're getting them a credit. Some of these people work, let's say they worked at Dairy Queen for a hypothetical. They get $13 an hour. And the current plan, that's $26,000 a year. Guess what? They don't qualify.
 Currently, they don't qualify. If you look at that right behind you, they do not qualify. So you mean to tell me I need to take two jobs in order to qualify for something that's afforded to me already? See, I heard a lot of hypotheticals for the future. You know, my parents used to tell me if Ipsen butts with candy and nuts, it'd be Christmas all day. But I hate to say it, but it's true. Now, problem being is the hypotheticals.
 We don't know the future. The future, tomorrow's not promised to us or those that believe in a God. Tomorrow's not promised to us. So therefore, how can we speculate what may or should or could or would happen? And we're not taking the patience and the time to get a finite plan. Give me a three to five year projection. I see somewhat of a small term plan. That ain't working. I'm gonna tell you that now. Doing math myself, that ain't working.
 Now, your long-term plan, I'm buying into that. You've got to fix infrastructure taxes. You've got to use taxes. I don't have a problem paying taxes. I've got a problem with the management of my taxes. That's the problem I have.
 The management of my money. You've been kicking the can so long. OK, what happened to the money that you had already? As the same question at school corporation, what happened to the money that you should have done these days? You've seen these things on the horizon. Now you tell me that you need extra money from the catch 22 people. You know who the catch 22 people is? The middle class, the people that work all the time.
 the people that struggle to pay for the rich and the poor. That's who we think. The police officer that barely make enough money, the firemen, those people, that some of the teachers, some of these people have to have extra jobs in order to survive. And they know I'm not lying. They're shaking their heads because it's the truth. Now, here's the problem. You're going to take my electric is already high. My water's already high. My gas is astronomical.
 And now you expect me to take it on the chin one more time. You give abatements to millionaires. 10 years and five-year abatements. Hey, y'all can take this. The working class, I don't get spit. When does that end? Let's go ahead and let's plan better is what I'm saying. I mean, if we're going to really look at what money comes in, look at what it does, and then come with a concrete answer. Right now, we got too much infrastructure. The west side of South Bend, we ain't fixed it yet.
 I'll end with this. And this is true. The Vidocq over there, last time the Vidocq got repainted, last time, Hesburgh shook Martin Luther King's head. That's how long it was. Now, I'm a West Sider and that offends me from the West Side to the lake.
 To Mayflower, that offends me. You can't fix my side of town and everybody else. I see new stuff over River Park. I see new stuff on the east side. I see some stuff being rebuilt on the north side, but I don't see nothing on my side except one strip in Little Mexico. That's not good. We got to do a better job in planning and pinpoint the problems that we got. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anybody else that wishes to speak in opposition of the bill?
 Okay, Mr. Horvath or Don, do you see anybody in the chat? Yes, there's Justin Howell. Mr. Howell, if you would unmute yourself and state your name and your address for the record, please. My name is Justin Howell, but unless I typed it incorrectly, I meant I was talking about Bill 10221. Okay. Okay.
 That'll be coming up next once we get through this bill. Yes, we're on Bill 101-21. That is it. There are no more speakers wishing to express interest to speak on this. I'm sorry, what was that, Clerk Jones? I said there is no one from the public, no one else from the public wishing to speak on this. Okay, thank you so much. So at this point, I'm going, oh, did you want to rebuttal? You have five minutes. No.
 i'll make brief comments i'm not necessarily rebutting i'm just uh thanking you all for your comments uh want you to know that um we had a number of meetings where we laid out the need and and a significant part of this um are threefold one is public safety to make sure that we don't have pieces of equipment on our water that break down and we're not in a position where we can supply good clean safe drinking water to our residents
 And we do provide clean, safe drinking water to our residents. We meet all EPA standards. The fact that there's minerals in the water in South Bend's case and in many cases across the nation actually helps coat the pipes to keep lead and copper from leaching out and is actually a benefit to us. But it is hard water. It does affect taste. Some people don't like that. Some people prefer it.
 But it's something that is very safe and I can guarantee you that you have clean, safe drinking water in South Bend. A lot of this is also driven by a federal consent decree from the EPA and DOJ, which is asking us to spend $713 million in the next 10 years to improve our sewer system and keep sewer
 from going straight to the river when we have rainfall events. We're pushing back on that because we understand that the burdens are high and we've been negotiating with EPA and DOJ on a revised plan. And these rate increases are responsive to a revised plan, not to the $713 million plan.
 And then finally for operating solid waste right now, the operating revenues don't meet the expenses. And so we would have to do something drastic to make that work without having rate increases. And that would be maybe going to every other week trash pickup or something like that. And that's not something that we're in a position of wanting to do. It's not something our residents are going to want. And so I think, you know, I just want to make sure that,
 that people understand that this was a well thought out plan. We are doing a five-year plan on all this because we wanted to have a bigger picture look on making sure that we're thinking about all of the needs and not just in one utility, but in all of them. So you can see what the full impact will be over that five years. Finally, I'd be remiss if I didn't address the Clean Air Relief.
 You're right, there are a lot of things on your water bill. Some of those are for fire protection that go help for fire hydrants and fire departments. Some of them are for insurance programs like sewer insurance and water insurance that pay for service laterals to the home.
 if they break in an insurance program. But the Clean Air Relief program is been about a dollar. I think it's 99 cents. It's been there for many, many, many years. I'm not sure that when the council passed that many years ago, why it was called Clean Air Relief, but what the money goes to is to support our leaf collection program so that people aren't burning their leaves. We pick those leaves up and, you know,
 and we take them out to an organic resources facility where we compost them and make sure that they're being put back to beneficial reuse.
 That dollar no way close to pays for that program. That program is heavily subsidized by other areas, but I just wanted to make sure that you understood that that's, I get that that nomenclature seems a little odd, but that's what it's for. Finally, I will get numbers on arrearages and do my best to make sure we've got that to you. One of the issues is our number of accounts does change every single day.
 So we have 47,300 different locations in the city where we've had accounts. If you looked at our active accounts, that varies. The last time I looked is 45,421 accounts.
 And so it's usually right around that 44 to 45,000 accounts area, but we can do our best to make sure you have at least a good feel for
 The arrearages that are 60 days out and 90 days out in terms of total dollars that are owed to the water, sewer and trash utilities, as well as in terms of number of customers.
 So I appreciate the comments. It doesn't fall on deaf ears that it is difficult when you're raising rates. And I do understand that it's a burden to people. And, you know, we're trying to make sure that the
 the money in these programs is going as much as possible directly to needed capital to make sure that you we're going to continue to have safe drinking water that's a reliable system in all these cases that people can that our residents can count on thank you thank you okay so i do not see anybody else so at this point we are going to there is no we already called for that okay
 So at this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 101-21 is now closed. Is there any statements that the council members would like to make regarding this bill? Councilman McBride. Thank you so much. Woman McBride, sorry. Thank you. I would just like to say, you know, again, for the record, I was initially on the, to discuss rate increases issue.
 and also was a big advocate of supporting it at the time. So I want to make that perfectly clear. However, I've been consistent in saying my thoughts and what the constituents, my constituents have been saying in the third district about increases in taxes in light of COVID, in light of unemployment, in light of the unforeseen circumstances, in light of the referendum, and the list just goes on and on.
 While I totally support and believe that we have to do something with our infrastructure at this time, I do not agree with the increase and putting a burden on the residents. And I'll yield one time. Any other Councilman Warner? Yeah, thank you. You know, this is a compromise. I know, uh.
 There's council members that don't like it and it's not enough. And I know I've talked to Eric and the mayor and Dan Parker and they don't like it. It's not enough.
 I will say that even if we put there's probably 5 to 7 million of ARP that's being used, even if we put the whole 58.9 million of ARP towards this, that still is leaving just on the infrastructure needs 100 million short. That doesn't even touch any of the EPA consent decree.
 do we want to raise rates no i think uh as we saw in the the presentations the city currently has among the lowest rates in the whole state right now even with these increases we're still in the very bottom half so that tells me that the city is doing
 A job as efficiently as as they can and are making do with with as little money as they can. The five of us that took a tour and saw the facilities we saw those needs. I think all five of us have pretty much agreed that doing nothing isn't an option that there are upgrades needed.
 money is needed for new wells and at the filtration house. And I think although it wasn't presented tonight, this is part of, as Eric said, is part of a five-year plan. We have to, the can has been kicked in 2019 and 2020, and here it is in our laps. And I do, you know, honestly, if you look at the numbers,
 the council in seven years or ten years is going to have to be looking at seven and ten dollar increases um unless there is very significant federal dollars coming so um you'll have to convince me i'm not sure councilman is does it matter if it's a draw okay councilman councilwoman hammond i want to try and find myself um questioning and
 wishing that we could delay this until we know the amount of money coming in from the federal government. If that is not possible for the community, is there a way of inserting language in line with what President White has suggested in terms of allowing us to revisit if that money does become available?
 I think it's a valid question for the community members to be asking. There seems to be a significant amount of federal money being promised and to vote this in prior seemingly just prior to the passage of that federal bill. I don't know if that that doesn't make sense to me and I don't know what it for the rest of the community. Councilman Wax, thank you. I've been.
 really of two minds throughout this process. I think, what do you say, with six meetings? Yeah, we've had six meetings on this bill. I've taken the tours, I've been to the meetings, I've gone through the numbers. I really hate this. But I've also seen the state of the current infrastructure and it's really a problem that needs to be addressed. And I'm afraid to push it off much longer.
 I expressed in every meeting until now that I found it unacceptable that the city was looking to the ratepayers for the entirety of it. The city has heard that a little bit. They've clearly made some changes recognizing that and are trying to reduce the increase. I wish it was more. I think that.
 as many of the public commented you know we have a general fund that's what people are paying taxes for to then come into the ratepayers when we're doing 150 million dollars of infrastructure that should have been done over the past 50 years to put it all in the ratepayers right now is a tall burn and and I don't like it I do appreciate what the city has done um as an attorney I tell my clients every day though that um
 definition of a compromise and a settlement is where both sides are unhappy. And I can assure you that I am unhappy. So maybe that means that this is a good compromise. I really wish there was more movement from the administration, but it's my impression that this is where we are and either we make the upgrades and do the capital improvements or we don't. And I think those improvements need to be made. Thank you.
 thank you can I just one absolutely say that the I am concerned with the CAP program especially when we are currently aware that it's unfunded in the long term uh and it's the program itself isn't the the ordinance doesn't sunset it so um I am afraid that the public will get the impression that this is a indefinitely funded program where
 We know today that it's not, and I don't envy the conversation that we're going to have, whoever it will be, but in five years when there isn't ARP funds to cover that. And then rates are going to  either the program's going to have to be cut or rates are going to have to be increased even more to cover that program. And I'm not looking forward to that.
 uh following up with Councilwoman Hammond and also to see if there is a um appetite to add language to the I think this is the substitute bill that speaks to that once we are aware of the funds available through the federal infrastructure bill that uh
 This will come back to the council for further discussions in regards to how those dollars will be spent and the impact on the rates. I have a thought on that. I think he's kind of told us and committed to do that. And I think...
 I trust Mr. Horvath to follow up with that commitment. I trust him too, but I want to make sure that the audience and our citizens really hear us that that is going to happen. And so once we become aware of what's available, that it will come in back and have that discussion with the council in regards to one, the dollar amount, how they can be used and the impact on the current rates.
 Councilman Lee, did you have a statement? I just want to say that I was never one in favor of rate increases. But once touring the water facilities, it did open my eyes. They are literally MacGyvering our water, some of our water systems to keep things going. And that scares me because...
 I have relatives who lived in Flint and when their water went bad it affected people they got sick they you know safe drinking water is is very important and you know one of the things we told them to come back with it was with plan b and a compromise and though they have shifted things to lessen the blow during the pandemic they did go back and make some changes
 As it was stated, we're paying the lowest rates in the state of Indiana. And even once the increases come, it'll still be cheaper than most places in Indiana. So this has been a tough night tonight. And so that's just my thinking is.
 We can continue to kick the can down the road, but it's going to eventually one day, somebody's going to have to take it up and deal with this. And so, you know, as much as I don't like it, it is a compromise, as Eli said. A good compromise, nobody's happy, and I'm not happy with it either. Councilman Wax. May I respond to President White's suggestion?
 Any funding that comes in will need to be appropriated by us. And I'm giving my commitment here that if there's additional infrastructure funds, I'm not appropriating anything until a significant chunk of it goes to cover capital improvements for water.
 obviously it would have to be consistent with the law governing whatever funds they are be they are but if there's funds that are eligible to cover water infrastructure I'm not going to be appropriating it to other places if it could be done for the water program and I think that's going to be the check on the administration on that Dave when the mayor came he was talking about how
 ARP was designed to cover other forms of relief for COVID, not infrastructure, and that the right time to fund infrastructure would be with the infrastructure bill that he was hoping was going to come down the road. I intend to hold him to that, and I'm sure my colleagues will as well. And I think that's where we could have the check in place. So I'm making that commitment, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to that
 Thank you. I ask one question. I'm sorry. Has everybody had a chance to make a statement? Ladies first. Because I know, okay. Councilman Warner, you mentioned that there's five plus million dollars of the ARP money factored into this. It could potentially be ARP money, yes.
 so our voting on this is this our consent to that amount of arp money no there would have to be an allocation okay thank you bill that would take councilman davis hey hey i'm still down here halfway here but i'm still down here um no one has to answer this question but i do know i asked for some support with these numbers
 with through the Redevelopment Commission with TIF districts. I still haven't heard any response about that. Everything that I asked for, I still haven't got a response for. And it was like, I gave a list of three things.
 I still haven't got a response for those things. I'm still waiting on the water cutoffs, the numbers for water cutoffs. I'm still hearing about waiting for the infrastructure, which Eli was just talking about. I know redevelopment can handle those some of those things. Still haven't heard that question answered. Nothing I asked for has been answered. So clearly you don't want my vote. I'm done. Okay. Thank you. So at this time,
 I would just like to state I did do the tour with my fellow Council members and the infrastructure is in need of improvement. Even if we were to take all of the money that we were going to get from ARP, it is not even close to what needs to how much money we need to really do the improvements. What I believe the term was what over $200 million. It's aging. It's almost 100 years old. Nobody
 raise rates on anybody. But we asked them to come back to us. They did do a compromise. We've been back and forth six meetings publicly committee meetings.
 So at this point, I mean, and if we have a commitment to bird dogs, so to speak, additional dollars that could come in to support that, at this point, I'm in favor of us just moving forward so that we can at least say that we have a five-year plan to begin to address our aging infrastructure.
 because maybe something will come up at the next meeting. It'll be, oh, we can't do it then, or we're gonna kick the can down the road. And then a year later, we still don't have a plan for infrastructure. And that's what I know has happened in this case because it was a couple of years ago, and then it was, well, we're gonna see it a new council. And so there's always some excuse down the road, why it is that we're not addressing our aging infrastructure that's leaking
 that needs to be repaired, that they're saving parts off of old things to try and salvage and fix what they have there because they can't even get these parts anymore. It's not a matter of they can just go to the parts store and get them, they can't find them. So, I know it's been a long night and it's been a long discussion and I appreciate all the input this evening. So with that,
 I will entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 101-21. What's the pleasure of the council? I would make a motion to send substitute bill 101-21 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second. Okay, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President McBride. Nay. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Did you say aye? I did say. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. We have six ayes. Substitute Bill 10121 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Okay, so our last bill of the evening is Bill 102-21. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 102-21 a second reading? 102-21, public hearing on an ordinance to vacate the following described...
 The east 100 feet of the first east-west alley lying north of Northside said alley being bounded on the west by 27th Street and on the east by the first north-south alley lying east of 27th running for a distance of 155 feet. Is there a committee report? Right. I think that's your committee. Oh, yeah. I'm sorry.
 I just thought, oh, that is my committee. Sorry, I lost my place. This did come out of the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? If you are, please state your name and address for the record. Still there. Yeah, my name is Terry Lang from Lang Feeney and Associates. Our address is 715 South Michigan Street in South Bend. I represent the petitioners here for the alley vacation.
 The alley that's being proposed to be vacated here affects basically two property owners, the Willow Shores Condo Association and the property owner immediately to the west.
 It's solely used by those two entities. It's very difficult for any city vehicles to make the right hand turn at the terminus of that east west alley into the alley adjacent to Nooner School there.
 the Willow Shores Condo Association owning the properties of North would like to create a small recreational area there for the condo association and still allow rights to ingress egress for both them and the adjacent property owner to the west of that. Any existing utilities that may be
 be within that area will continue to have the right to be there. There's no visible utilities there at this point, but most utilities run in the North South Alley adjacent to the Nooner school there, and it's basically a dead end alley at that point. There only 155 feet long. That's the reason for the petition before you. OK, thank you. Council members, do you have any questions of
 Seeing none, we're going to move to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 10221? I don't see anyone in the chat wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Who is Justin Howard? I'm sorry, Hal. He was speaking in the previous bill.
 Okay, is there, seeing none, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 10221? I don't see anyone in the chat wishing to speak in opposition to this bill. I did post in chat. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Would you please give your name and address for the record? And are you speaking in support of or opposition to? Opposition to. Okay, thank you.
 My name is Justin Howell from 1205 South 27th Street, South Bend, 46615.
 I originally joined the meeting helping out the property owner directly to the north of the next property owner to the north of this alley. He wanted to speak in opposition as they do use the alley quite a bit to get to their property, the back of the property where they park their vehicles. His main complaint was going to be the
 alley that it runs into, the north and south facing alley, doesn't have good access going down to Northside Boulevard. And so the way he gets in and out is via this alley. And he wants to be able to continue doing that. So unfortunately, because of the late hour and all of the other
 important work going on that ended up happening before this. He wasn't able to stick around. So I mostly came along to pass along the message. I'm not sure how it works after this, but hopefully there are methods for him to submit his opposition besides wait until this late hour. Okay. Thank you. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in opposition to the bill? At this time, I don't see anyone wishing to speak in opposition of this bill.
 Okay, at this point, the public hearing on Bill 10221 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding this bill? We have a rebuttal. Where? Oh, I'm sorry. Based on the person that spoke in opposition. Oh, Mr. Yes, you do have a five-minute rebuttal if you would like to address that.
 what the gentleman just stated in reference to the closure of the alley and the access to his property, which I was trying to find on that map. To address this question, the alley itself is accessible both from the north and from the south on that north-south running alley there.
 It's 20 feet longer maybe to go south than it is to come in and try to make that turn at the right angle there to get to his parcel to the north. So it is accessible. I drove through it myself.
 when I visited the site, so I don't think it's going to be anything that's a major inconvenience. If anything, it's a little easier to make one turn into his drive than it would be to make two right-hand turns to get into his drive. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay, now the public portion is now closed. We have heard the rebuttal, and at this point, I would entertain any council members to make statements they wish in regarding to this bill before us.
 councilwoman i just want to um it's just a clarification this uh this came from the committee um with a favorable recommendation pending there was language pending that they create mutual access easements so all parties can access their property is that correct yes that is one clarification of that that was pending from the board of public works was their recommendation and that was added into the language okay
 During the committee meeting. Thank you. You're welcome. OK, at this time, if there's nobody to wish to make any further statements and thank you for that clarification on that that that language was added in, I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 10221. I like to move that we send Bill 10221. I'm sorry we're not in the Committee of the Whole, send it.
 We are in the committee. We are still in the committee of the whole. I'd like to move that we send Bill 10221 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'll second. So there's been a motion and it's been seconded. Can we please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Attorney Palmer is...
 The language that was referenced that has been added to the bill that we are voting on. So all residents have access to their properties. Correct. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 102-21 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and repair it back to the full council. So moved. Second. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded. Will you please call the roll? Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskotsky. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is where bills will be given a third reading. Clerk Jones, would you please read Substitute Bill 101-21 and give it a third reading.
 101-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending various sections of the South Bend Municipal Code within Chapter 16 at Articles 1 and 2 and within Chapter 17 at Article 2, Division 4, Article 4, Article 14, and Article 15 to provide a comprehensive adjustment to rates for South Bend utility customers in the city's
 Furnishment of refuge, sewer, water, stormwater, and the low-income customer assistance program. Councilwoman Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole?
 Yes, President White. The bill, Substitute Bill 101-21, was sent to the council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Council members, is there a recommendation regarding Substitute Bill 101-21? I move for passage of Substitute Bill 101-21. Is there a second? Second. Mary Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Hammond? Nay. Vice President McBride? Nay. Okay.
 council member davis nay council member lee yay i'm sorry i didn't hear you that's a mixture between yes and no yay no yes hi council member warner hi council member wax hi
 Council Member Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President White. Aye. Six ayes. Substitute Bill 101-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give a third reading to Bill 102-21.
 Third reading on an ordinance to vacate the following describe the east 100 feet of the first east-west alley lying north of north side said alley being bounded on the west by 27th Street and on the east by the first north side north-south alley lying east of 27th running for a distance of 155 feet. Yes, Councilwoman Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole?
 yes president white bill 102-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 102-21 move for passage is there a second we have a motion and it's been seconded clerk jones will you please call the role vice president mcbride aye council member davis
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 102-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, would you please give third reading to substitute Bill 108-21 as it has been amended in the Committee of the Whole.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Division 2, Sections 2-12.2.2, 2-12.2.6a, and 2-12.2.7, to remove the office of the city clerk from...
 from the operation and implementation of the Community Police Review Office and to transfer the jurisdiction of the Community Police Review Office, including appointment and discipline of the director, to the jurisdiction of the Mayor's Office. Councilman Miszkowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 108-21?
 Yes, President White, that was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 108-21 as amended in the Committee of the Whole. Question. Were we going to have a reading of the mayor's letter? We can probably, if it meets the pleasure of the council members, can we read it after we pass this particular substitute?
 I have a point of order, point question. Would it be possible for attorney Palmer to reread the amended section, the sunset clause once again? Yes. And just ask for clarity. Attorney Palmer, could you read the amended section as it was amended in the Committee
 I can under section 2-12.2.7 paragraph I is added to the end, which states the transfer responsibility for the community police review office shall revert back to the office of the city clerk upon passage of a resolution of the common council upon election of a new city clerk.
 are there any additional questions we do have a motion and has been seconded at this time um i would ask that uh for roll call council member davis aye council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax aye
 Aye. Council Member Noskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Substitute Bill 108-21 has been passed as amended in the Committee of the Whole. There is a letter that was submitted to the Mayor, I mean from the Mayor. I do not have a copy right in front of me.
 Attorney Palmer, do you have the copy or if one of the council members who do have a copy of his letter, if that can be read so that becomes part of the record? I have a copy of that, President White. Would you like me to read it? August 9th, 2021. Dear President, dear Council President Karen L. White.
 I write in support of the Common Council's amendment to the Community Police Review Office and their expeditious passage during today's meeting. As you know, there is unfortunately no successful path forward within the current structure and every day that this embarrassing episode continues and the more damage will be done to our community and the credibility of this important initiative.
 When we worked together last year to establish the Community Review Board and office, we agreed that there would be such that there should be as much independence from the administration as possible and that the Common Council should lead this effort.
 That's why all board members are to be appointed by the Common Council, and that's also why the office was originally placed under the city clerk, whose office supports the Common Council administratively.
 Unfortunately, the city clerk excluded the Common Council from reaching a consensus on the hiring decision for the director, refuses to take the obvious action to terminate the director after damaging revelations and a lack of transparency during the hiring process, and has recently pursued legal services for the review office without an approved appropriation or even a discussion with the city's fiscal body.
 The director and the city clerk have also disregarded key provisions of the ordinance that guide how the board and office should operate. In short, the city clerk has inadequately collaborated with the common council at each and every step of the way, and at times seems to work in defiance of the common council and the broader community.
 While neither the Common Council nor I can bind a future mayor on this matter, I can commit that I will exercise the option outlined in paragraphs 2-12.2.7b1-2 for as long as I serve as mayor. With my commitment to this process, there will be a much greater role for both the Common Council and the community.
 The hiring and the discipline of the director will have to gain the majority support of the Common Council by a resolution approved through the normal public process. The appropriations and procurement process for the office will remain the same.
 Under state law, the executive branch is the only entity that can initiate or increase appropriations for the office, regardless of where it is placed. Since last year, I have shared with the city clerk and the Common Council that I would not initiate additional appropriations until we have had a plan that both the administration and the Common Council support.
 I have shared and reiterated feedback on what is needed several times with the city clerk and have offered assistance. To date, we have had no such plan or progress. To date, we have had no such plan and progress has stalled.
 The recent months, the city clerk has canceled our meetings either without notice or just before our scheduled meeting. In summary, no additional taxpayer resources will be provided to the office until there is a new director and a plan that my administration and the Common Council support.
 Thank you for your efforts to this important initiative and get it back on track. I look forward to signing these amendments into law and receiving a candidate from you as soon as possible to appoint as the Director of the Review Office. Sincerely, James Mueller, Mayor, CC Common Council.
 Thank you. We'll now go into the resolutions. Clerk Jones, will you please read resolution 21-14? Resolution 21-44, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, calling for an updated comprehensive plan for the City of South Bend generally, and more particularly for property west of the St. Joseph River.
 i would like to entertain a motion to hear substitute bill 21-44 so move clerk jones will you please call the roll yes council member lee all right
 Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Wax. Aye. Council member Naskowski. Aye. Council member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Aye. Vice president McBride. Aye. Council member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there a report from...
 Sure. Yes, I'm sorry. I'm going to ask before you go any further with this. I'm looking at the clock. I'm looking at everybody in here. The folks that were here to support this particular resolution has gone home. I'm going to ask if we have a continuance on this particular matter.
 to our next meeting yes ma'am thank you there is a motion now based on the time but also that individuals that were here to really um support or speak to this bill that we would continue um substitute bill 2144 to the next council meeting second there's some thank you mr davis you're welcome there's a motion and it's been seconded uh clerk jones will you please call the role
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskowski. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes.
 the early part of the meeting that all bills that were scheduled for first reading were read is there any any unfinished business at 11 35 any unfinished business is there any new business
 I would like to just thank the council members for the work and the commitment and the time that you've given to this meeting, but also to the public for coming and sharing their concerns, their recommendations as we, the council, continues to move forward. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under privilege of the floor? I don't see anyone in the chat. We do have someone in the audience. Will you please come to the podium?
 Oh, we have individuals. Now, in terms of the privilege of the floor, you cannot speak to any items that were discussed tonight or on the agenda, and you will have three minutes to share your concerns. And I would ask our attorney to keep time in regards to the three minutes that is allotted. So state your name and the address, and you have three minutes.
 My name is Rodney Gadsden, 734 South Clearview Place, and I'm also the president and founder of the South Bend Tenant Association. My concern is something very simple. It is the 501 tenants. I have personally witnessed, been through, I understand on both sides, issues with tenants. I understand both sides, issues with landowners.
 You know, everybody ain't forthcoming with the truth at times. Let's just call it what it is. But let's make some clear facts. The building at the 501 building is unacceptable, uninhabitable, and unlivable. Last I checked about HUD regulations, it talks about you have a safe and habitable place to stay. Now, we didn't have more violations in that building than we can count with the code enforcement. That's not right.
 That's not fair. In talking, I don't know how we got this confused before, but in talking previously with the, I'm sleepy and I'm tired, with the director of the housing authority, I agreed to her midterm and long-term plan on the goals. The goals were good and they were set and they were something found. I'll say that for the record. However, we disagreed on the short-term exit plan.
 Well, let me explain that right now. I think there should be within 60 days that that building should be, the tenants of that building should be removed and temporarily housed within 60 to 90 days. Why? Because that'll give you two things to do. Either assess the building to say it's not habitable and we need to tear it down or to fix it in a proper manner that maintenance can go in there uninterrupted
 And make the building whole. Now, we have emergency fund money that I know we lost some money doing an investigation. I ain't going to go into all that. Because we got to learn from the past, too. The other thing I would ask, especially of the board current, that there should be better oversight in their positioning.
 There should be no way on God's green earth that those things that went on should ever go on again. Because just like you just stated here before about processes not being adhered to, we got to hold everybody accountable equally. 30 seconds. So here we have it. The exit plan that we want to describe is to get tenants safely out of the home because winter is coming.
 what we're going to do we don't want another rabbi schumann place thank you thank you hello my name is daryl mckinney 425 alonzo watson drive i'm going to go ahead and say kind of what he just said about the 501 and the quads also but i'm going to start with myself as i live in the quads over that 425 my car was actually told now tore up the undercarriage
 My car was new. I had just purchased it.
 you know she said she couldn't see the license plate so they couldn't see the license plates on it the car was in the license plates was in the back window of the car because the car was hit from behind and that's why places i just got it registered do tags and everything and no one has done nothing about it and every time i go to the mayor's office well the south bend housing authority is this and that is tough to get to them but i lost the car and had to pay for it
 I just paid for the car and then had to pay for it, excuse me, not out of towing, to get it from the ASAP towing junkyard. You know, and that's just, you know, I'm not going to let that go. And Ms. Lambert said, well, it is what it is. No, it's not what it is. I just paid for that car. So the only thing was wrong, the only thing was wrong with it was the damage in the back and maybe the battery would die sometimes. And I'd like to know, I need some help so you see who I can talk to.
 and like my gentleman just said before they just uh at the 501 and the quads over there where we live they uh took out the small dumpsters and replaced it with one large dumpster now trash is all over that large dumpster dumps you know trash is all around that large dumpster dumpster excuse me and you know that's going to be rodents that's going to be unhealthy and we have old we had old tenants over there and handicapped tenants and they can't get out that far
 to that dumpster and with winter coming it's going to be you know just horrible because the south bend housing authority is not going to come over there and shovel that snow like they're supposed to so if they thought it was bad with a with a tenant trying to get from here to right over there imagine that to be twice three times as long and for to get in their wheelchairs to get up in that dumpster so i like to see who i could see to talk to about this because i talked to many tenants
 you know the other day and the mayor has that too i got assigned uh a letter and the mayor has that too as well as about my car i need to see who i can talk to and i called henry davidson young up the phone on me thank you mr mckinney one second fernando malone 2015 western avenue suite one one one um first of all back in
 July 23rd, 2019, South Bend seeing the first mass shooting at Kelly Pub. For two years, the owner, Mr. Kelly, had shut down his weekend club. We met with Mr. Kelly, my organization, with Councilman Sharon McBride, and we had reopened Kelly Bar on Fridays and Saturdays from
 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. We are going on the fourth week with no shooting, no 911 calls, as well as no problems inside the bar. The first week we opened, Councilman, I'm sorry, Councilwoman Sharon McBride came out. And please take note, all councilmen, people still ask what's very happy to see the city
 rep for that district to come out so when you hear about things in your district people really want you guys to come out homicides whatever because this was a homicide um case so um we we have a pla
 as well as a rock with Brandon name on it. We will be put out and I know Sharon McBride working on other things, but I just want to announce you, Sharon, because the community when you left was happy that you came in and, you know, we're just a normal person. So thank you for that.
 ronaldo malone again on behalf of lorenzo jackson i have consent he's a client of ours we speak for him he's lived at 501 alonzo drive the 501 building um he called my organization to come out because nobody would help him we went out there went through the building and i encouraged karen white
 and Henry Davis to contact my office and let's do a walkthrough over there, please. When we got there, my team, we could not stay in his apartment just to write some notes. That's how bad his apartment is. I sent out some photos and I know Trina Robertson is gone, but she called me. She said, you sent me a vagina. I said, no, that's a mad lag.
 Bad bugs is eating him alive as he lay in his bed. He's getting no help whatsoever from anybody, staff, anybody. The director told me the building's need to be turned down. So why is she asking let's repair the building when she's telling us it need to be turned down? So I'm speaking on his behalf, Henry Davis.
 but the tenants want to see you over there i know you've been in contact with some but um if you and karen could just set up a time my name in here and i'm going to tell you why because that man's apartment was remodeled i spent an
 entire night down in Indianapolis with my son on his basketball tournament and that apartment was remodeled we found him in the parking lot in his car and gave him back his uh access to his apartment so tell the whole story okay don't don't do that to me don't do that to me please I'm sorry that's his apartment have not been redone I'm going to take it to the
 privilege of the floor so is uh mr malone are you still speaking on behalf of the the gentleman that's standing next to you yes i am is he going to be speaking on his i'm going to let him just speak because mr davis said his apartment been okay let's go back but you have three minutes and i'll
 attorney palmer how much time do we have does he have left 45 seconds okay so you have 45 seconds yeah my apartment ain't nobody been in my apartment did anything my problem has been like that about going on six months now i got flooded three times then nobody came in and got no carpet anybody got no water up and they didn't do nothing my carpet smelled like mold i got mold all through my house i stand 123.
 and 23. and ain't nobody been in my apartment and did nothing okay i mean not absolutely nothing didn't come getting the water up game today like i got i got i got i got mold going all around my baseball all on the back of my speakers on my furniture and everything anybody came there and did oh not one thing
 Thank you. Nothing at all. Then, too, I'll get with you, but have you contacted the health department? Yes. Yes, my friend, the health department here, they were just clueless. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 And we have another person from Privilege of the Floor. No, we have two. Sharon Bedicki, 3822 Ford Street. Karen, you know what's coming. I brought in pictures from Bob the Builder. You can see where his foundation starts. It was red-tagged July 29, 2019 for the foundation. They followed up on August 29, 2019, where they placed a cease and desist.
 They came back out October 9th because he continued to build on it. They came back out October 15th of 2019. They did a structural inspection, and he was told to dismantle it. He finished that project, and not only did he finish the red-tagged project, he is now building an addition to the red-tagged addition that has been red-tagged.
 When I called the building department, this was sent over to City Legal in July of 2020. And there it sits. So somebody needs to jingle City Legal and get them going. But here's pictures for you. And just some more numbers for you. I meant to bring them up earlier, but I forgot. On the current tax sale. Okay, you can't. You're talking about the tax sale? I'm talking about the tax sale. It's not related to the water rates. No.
 No, you're fine. And then also I would like to have that address about the builder. 3818 Ford Street. Thank you. And you can have these pictures. On the current tax sale, there are 2,527 properties up for sale. Of those, 1,793 of them are in the City of South Bend Portage Township, 71%. Most of those are in the 2nd and 6th Districts.
 Keep those numbers in mind when you're raising rates and raising fees and raising taxes. 1,793 people are going to be losing properties in September. Thank you. Hi, my name is Emily Motz. I live at 747 West North Shore Drive. I'm here to talk about traffic safety and speeding on our street today.
 My husband and I moved into the neighborhood in the spring of 2014. We have four children. We moved into my husband's childhood home, and his parents live three doors down from us at the home that they inherited from my husband's grandmother. Since we've lived there, their speed on the curve, we live on a curve on the river,
 has been a real issue and sometimes quite scary for my kids playing in the front yard and riding their bikes. However, in the last year, there has been four quite serious accidents, literally three of them in my front yard and one in front of my in-laws house, which just happened this last Wednesday morning at 2 a.m.,
 The commotion awoken my father-in-law who went out to see what was going on, and they're usually all hit and runs. And anyway, he was injured by a downed power line that was hit by a car, a passing car, and he's in the hospital now. He's unable to walk. And anyway, in the fall, I talked to 311, I believe, twice.
 I submitted, um, online forms to the city portal and, uh, was told that I would probably hear from someone within a few weeks and I have not. Um, and now one of my loved ones have been hit. Um, anyway, not actually hit, but, um, yeah.
 My request is that I would like the support of the committee to one conduct a comprehensive traffic study, including traffic count and speed data to pull and review reports to 911311 and the city portal going back at least two to three years.
 Three, investigate the possibility of speed monitors being placed at both ends of the curve. And four, assistance from the public works staff working with our neighbors to find a traffic calming plan and identify a feasible solution. Thank you. Been a long night. Long night.
 okay samuel brown 222 eastern street city salt man uh i'm gonna make this real quick i went to the mirrors speaking about what he wanted to do over on the west side with king center i've been going to put the money into it but yet still we are ducking bullets in that neighborhood around the west side the police chief said before the police were short
 I don't get it. I really don't get it. We're doing all these fabulous things. We're spending all this money. But we are ducking bullets on that West Side. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to have access to the public records and pull up some of this information, and I'll be back to you. It's crazy the way we're living on that West Side. But you want to put money into the Dream Center, it's going to be a nightmare. It's not a Dream Center. Because when the kids go there,
 they will be decked in bullets when they come out of there. We've got to rethink this. We need the police. We need to get the resources to clean up the inner city. Thank you. Is there anyone else wishing to speak on the privilege of the floor? Based on some of the comments from the citizens, I will get with them.
 district representatives who can reach out to you and then i do believe i have a telephone call tomorrow yes okay and uh and you live uh in the third district yes that's my address that's third district me yeah yes i live in the north store triangle what is the street name
 Is that in the first district? Is that the first? Yes, I'm sorry. Okay, that's in the fourth district and your representative is Councilman Troy Warner. I have emailed him. Okay, great. And then we have Bob the Builder. It's the sixth district and then we have the House Authority
 Yeah. Okay. Well, if there's no anything else. There was a question that I have. That's real. Mm-hmm. Okay. There's a collection of petitions. Mm-hmm. You want people to be bumped. Yes. And they got petitions in there because public works told them to fill out this. So we need to see.
 And I'll do my best to try to summarize them on the privilege of the floor. I'm sorry. I'm not sure Steve Motz had indicated he wanted to speak. I didn't see it. I'm sorry. And then it was Greg.
 Great, Mark. I got him on the phone if you want to hear him. You just say your name and address and you have three minutes. Dad, that's it. Okay. I put some stuff in there before, but my name is Steve Motz, M-A-T-Z, with North 719 Shore Drive. And the traffic patterns have evidently changed in the last few years.
 I have lived on North Shore Drive about 40 years and now I'm getting, we're getting accidents and we're getting more and more severe. The speeds on North Shore Drive are getting excessive and to the point where people are wiping out utility poles, trees, all kinds of stuff. They're running up into yards.
 I mean, with multiple, multiple accidents that have not happened before. And I think that some of the traffic patterns probably have changed a little bit in the city. And they're using that wide open space to run through it. And we've got to, I got injured Wednesday morning. We've got to do something to reclaim safety.
 offshore drive back to being a residential street. It's not only happening to 700 block, I know it's happened down into 200 block and 300 block. I'm aware of other people having been run into and cars broken, bushes and trees taken out.
 I'm proposing we put some stop signs at Fairquoy and Lafayette and Anchovies to try to slowly do something about that curve. They need to have a light flashing to slow down that there's a stop sign ahead or something because I've got grandkids down the street, right? We need to protect them and every citizen that...
 lives and walks the big walking avenue something we have to do that I recommend three stop signs like well maybe a flight with a camera but whatever it takes we've got to slow the traffic 30 seconds thank you the next person that's waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor Clerk Jones is there anyone waiting there is
 There's no one waiting to speak on the floor. I'm looking at Greg Motz also. And I don't know if that who is who just got through speaking. Yes. Okay. Cause he was speaking for Steve. Well, yeah, yeah. No, no, no. Actually dad was speaking. That's my, that's my dad too. But, but I had to, had to pick him up off the ground at one time.
 to take him to Memorial, which is right around the corner from here. And I realize we had a lot of stuff that was really important tonight. And I really respect all the stuff that came before the council tonight. And I...
 But my biggest deal is my dad, okay? Thank you. Okay. Thank you. We appreciate that. Is there anyone else? There is no one else wishing to speak on the privilege of the floor. Seeing there's no one else waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor, this meeting is adjourned. And again, I thank the council members, the clerk office, and our attorney, and you, the audience, for still being with us at this particular time.