Common Council meeting will be legally held by way of a virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams application. At this time, our city clerk, John Jones, would like to make some comments regarding the link and other areas that you would need to be made aware of. Okay.
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings.
 Also, if you would like to be called on, no, for citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following to the chat and the council president will call on you during the relevant time for public input. My name, your full name and your address and you will then be given three minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks.
 Thank you. It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr. Kyle Kuypers, Area Director of Young Life. We're so happy that he will be with us and he will give us our invocation. Mr. Kuypers? Kuypers, I'm sorry. Yes, it is Kuypers. Thank you. Thank you. Holy God, we acknowledge that we cannot control life, yet we can control how we respond to life events.
 We pray and ask for your guidance in this meeting. Give the leaders of this city wisdom and empathy in how to care for the citizens of South Bend. Let us respond in a way that provokes kindness, empathy to understand the needs of others, and action to help fulfill those needs. God, we pray for safety for our students in K-12 and our higher academic institutions surrounding us.
 Protect all the teachers, administrators, and school workers from this disease and pandemic and its spread. And help us to endure, but endure with strength to not look out after only ourselves, but to show love for others. As we love our neighbors, as we love ourselves. It's in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. We pray. Amen.
 Thank you Mr. Kuipers for that inspirational invocation and again thank you for joining us for our meeting this evening. Mrs. Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee? Councilmember Lee? Present, I'm sorry. Councilmember Davis? Henry's here. Councilmember McBride? Present. Councilmember Warner? Here. Councilmember Teschke? Here.
 Council Member Nesgotski? Here. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Present. Council Member Hammond? Present. President White? Present. Nine present. Thank you. We'll now entertain
 A hearing in terms of asking our city clerk to read report from the subcommittee on minutes. Okay. Report of subcommittee on minutes to the Common Council of the City of South Bend. The subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the July 27, 2020 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. I will not entertain a motion to accept the report from the subcommittee on minutes. Okay.
 So moved. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee? Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teschke? Aye. Councilmember Nosgowski? Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. President White? Aye.
 9 ayes. Thank you. The report from the subcommittee on minutes has now been accepted. We'll now move to special business bill number 2025. Clerk Jones, will you please read this resolution, please?
 Bill number 2025, a resolution of the South End Common Council honoring the work of Pastor David Schrader of Grace United Methodist Church. Thank you. I do know that we have a presenter, 5th District Councilmember Jake Tuska. Will you please introduce yourself and give us your home address as well? Yes, thank you, Madam President. Jake Tuska, 5th District Councilmember 2419 Chesire Drive.
 I'm looking in the chat here. I don't know, Chris Rowe. Is Chris Rowe here or anybody else with Grace United? I'm not seeing them. Hopefully it's just technical difficulties and everybody's okay with the storm, but we'll just move ahead.
 This resolution is to honor Pastor David Schrader, who's one of the longest serving pastors of Grace United Methodist Church, a large church on the south side, serving many of the 5th District constituents.
 and he is going to be retiring, and so we'll present this to him at his official retirement celebration. And I will read through this here, and maybe if somebody from Grace pops on, they can give some comments. But a resolution of the South Bend Common Council honoring the work of Pastor David Schrader of Grace United Methodist Church.
 Whereas Pastor David Schrader was ordained in 1980 and has been in ministry for 40 years, 35 serving churches and five serving as district superintendent. And whereas Pastor David is a graduate of Indiana University South Bend, where he earned the highest award for his major, philosophy and an international award for work in his minor area of study, which was history.
 He went on to earn his Master of Divinity from Garrett Evangelical Theological Seminary and his Doctor of Ministry from the Graduate Theological Foundation, with classwork done at Christ Church College at Oxford University. And whereas during his career in ministry, Pastor Schrader has baptized 250 people, conducted 412 weddings and 354 funeral services.
 And whereas Pastor Schroeder has served seven churches throughout his career, including the last 13 as pastor of Grace United Methodist on South Bend Southside, he's the longest serving pastor in that congregation's 152 year history. And whereas as the co-founder and president of the Board of Directors of Children of Abraham, David helped provide hundreds of millions of dollars in medical aid to free clinics and hospitals in third world countries.
 And whereas throughout his career, Pastor Schrader has served the United Methodist Conference as Secretary of the Bishops Cabinet, Chair of the Human Resource Committee, Chair of the Conference Board of Global Ministries, Chair of the Division of Financial Stewardship, Vice Chair of the Board of Ordained Ministry, and as a liaison to the Garrett Evangelical Theological Seminary. He was also a representative to the 2001 World United Methodist Conference in Brighton, England.
 And whereas Pastor Schroeder has served the extended church as adjunct professor of United Methodist Studies and field education at the Associated Mennonite Biblical Seminary, a trustee of Evansville University, and is a member of the board of directors of Methodist Hospital. He also served as a part-time prison chaplain at both the Joliet and the Westville Correctional Facilities and as associate chaplain at LaPorte Hospital.
 Now therefore be it resolved by the Common Council, the City of South Bend, Indiana as follows. Section 1. We thank Pastor David Schroeder for his dedication to excellence in all ways in which he has served our community and beyond. We congratulate Pastor David on his retirement and wish he and his family all the best in their future endeavors. Section 3. This resolution shall be in full force and effect from after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the Mayor.
 Thank you. I will now ask Mr. Graham Sparks, is there anyone waiting from the family or from the Grace Church that would like to speak in support of this resolution?
 Yes, Council President White. I am not as familiar as Council Member Teska may be with the certain names of the individuals, but I haven't seen anyone speak up. Council Member Teska, you could probably ask if there is anyone here. Yeah, unless somebody, I mean, there's a couple of guests without names specified. I'm not seeing any names. Again, we just had a pretty rough go of it here on the south side. So it's possible that maybe somebody, some folks are without power or something like that. So yeah.
 But I'll add just that, you know, again, Pastor Schrader has been serving our community for quite some time and has served in a lot of roles beyond South Bend. Again, mentioned his ministry at the correctional facilities, both
 here in Indiana and in Illinois. And, you know, he's just done so much. I mean, as I read through that, and that's not all of it, it's hard to believe one man can do so much. So just grateful for the service he's given to the South Side and the 5th District and the folks that live here, and would ask for all of your support in passing this special resolution.
 Thank you for your comments. Mr. Sparks, is there anyone prior to the time that I would go to the council members waiting to speak in support of this resolution?
 Council President White, I see no one willing to speak in favor or in opposition to this legislation. And if I may, as a point of just information, Council Member Teschke, if there is anyone from the family or otherwise that would like to submit remarks as part of the public record, they may do so. We can definitely add that as part of this bill. Perfect. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you as well.
 Is there any council members wishing to speak in support of this resolution bill 2025? Anyone from the council wishing to add comments at this time?
 President White? Yes. I don't know if you can see my hand. I still can't see your hands. Councilwoman Sharon McBride? Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Teska, for bringing this very important resolution. And to Pastor Schrader for your tireless work in our community and all throughout the country and the world. I've heard I'm very honored today.
 for you to be recognized tonight. And I know that your retirement is going to include continuing to serve. And so I just want to say congratulations on your retirement and thank you for your tireless efforts and your commitment to serving others. Thank you. Any other council members? Pastor Kenneth Lee. I would just like to thank Pastor Strader
 for his work in our community and how much it has enhanced the lives of so many individuals. I was reading about how many weddings he's done and how many funerals he's done. And I just wanted to share just in this moment of retirement and just to say thank you for being a servant. Thank you for helping so many people. And we wish you continued success.
 Though you may retire from the occupation, you never retire from your cause. So I just want to say thank you for being a great example of what a pastor can be and what a pastor can do. So thank you very much. Thank you as well. Any other council members?
 Seeing none, I would like to add my words of congratulations. I've had the pleasure of working with Pastor David as well as with his wife when I was a member of the IU South Bend community. And I can tell you, a fine public servant, but also a servant of the ministry in which he's been called in. So I do wish him the very best.
 get some rest and remember your work is never done thank you so much I would now like to entertain a motion regarding this resolution I move for passage is there a second second thank you so much clerk Jones will you please call the roll councilmember Davis councilmember McBride councilmember Warner I councilmember Teshka councilmember Nizgatsky
 Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Council Member Lee? President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. Now we will not have any reports from city offices. I would like to entertain a motion we will not resolve into the committee over the whole. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 1220.
 President White, I would like to make a motion to continue Bill 12-20 until our August 24th meeting. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Tashka? Aye. Councilmember Nisgatsky? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. We do not have any resolutions for this meeting. We'll now move to Bill first reading. Clerk Jones, would you please read Bill 33-20?
 33-20 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Penn Indiana to vacate the following described property east-west mid block alley from Cleveland Avenue to north-south alley between Cleveland and Diamond Avenues Councilman District number one South Penn Indiana 46628. Thank you now I'd like to entertain a motion regarding bill 33-20.
 the recommendation would be that this bill would be sent to public works and property vacation committee set for a second uh reading as well as a public hearing and committee meeting i'll make that motion second the motion's been made and seconded clerk jones will you please call the role council member warner aye council member tashka aye
 Councilmember Nieskowski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? No. Councilmember Hammond? Sorry, aye. Okay. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. Could you now give first reading to Bill 34-20?
 3420, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, North South Alley from Thomas Street between McPherson and Laurel Streets, then South,
 134.475 feet to the northernmost portion of the first east-west alley between Laurel Street and the north-south alley, Councilmanic District number 2, South Bend, Indiana, 46601.
 I move that this bill be sent to our Public Works and Property Vacation Committee for second reading and public hearing on August 24th. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Tashka? Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Council Member Hammond? Council Member Lee? Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Will you now read your first reading to Bill 35-20.
 35-20. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the following described property, Business Center Drive and the west half of a cul-de-sac of Ameritech Drive, all south of Cleveland Road and directly east of the St. Joseph Valley Parkway, Councilmanic District Number 1, South Bend, Indiana, 46628. Thank you. Is there a motion? Yes.
 I'd like to make a motion to send Bill 3520 to Public Works and Property Vacation for second reading public hearing on August 24th. Thank you. Clerk Jones has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you now call the roll? Council Member Niesgotski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Lee?
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Tashka. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you so much. We'll now move to our unfinished business. I don't believe that there's any items that will fall under unfinished business at this time. We'll now move. Yes, there will be. Okay, excuse me. Who's speaking? I can't see your hand. This is Henry. Okay, Councilmember Henry Davis, will you state your name and your home address,
 Henry Davis, Jr., 5117 Idlewood Drive. Why do I have to speak my home address? Well, you know, I'm just used to doing that. Okay. Most times. But if you could go ahead and make your comments. Sure. Thank you. Okay. This stems back some time ago. I emailed members of the council, leadership team.
 and also mayor. Some time ago, we had a meeting about how the council is gonna continue communication with administration.
 And I, during that meeting, because we finally got it, pleaded with James Mueller, Mayor Mueller, about how do we have this discussion. And I asked, you know, emphatically for, you know, each council meeting or maybe once a month to have the report from city offices to include a department head.
 And the reason why I asked for that was twofold. It was for better information and also for us later on when we have budgeting, it makes it a little bit simpler during presentation time. Since my district has been impacted by many things, a lot of the things that we're paying attention to that are in the news are second district issues.
 From homelessness to the police, you know, ramping up enforcement, etc. But I want to talk about the day that members on Elmer Street was awakened by loud horns and folks banging on their doors. The folks that I'm talking about are contractors.
 There were contractors that were knocking on folks' doors telling them to move their cars because there was paving that was getting ready to happen. Well, the paving wasn't supposed to happen until the next day.
 So people had their cars out in front of their homes because they had a whole another 24 hours to remove their vehicles. After many phone calls and people being forced outside their homes, elderly people, may I add, we ended up in a situation where people were able to respond, but that was very unfair. It took places that I ended up calling Toro Villa and finally getting in contact with public works
 And he was able to speak with the contractor and tell them that was no good and they were out of line for doing it.
 But it was just another level of disrespect that many residents do. They take in on a daily basis with some of these things. You wouldn't believe some of the stories that I have. Then as we move forward, we're talking about the press conference that took place as it related to the second district and the level of enforcement needed to happen on Bertrand Island. I got no understanding. I got no no one asked me anything.
 No one asked me anything. That's my district. And I don't understand how we are going to work together if we not include the district representative on some of these things.
 I'm not fearful what may happen because I know what's gonna happen but if we are going to work as a council we're gonna work together then these things need to be spelled out just out of respect I don't understand how I did not know about the press conference I'm not I don't know how you know I didn't get anything I was I found out about it like everyone else did on the internet I was sitting at the table with my mother I was
 I turned on WNDU and there it was through Facebook. So, you know, there is a level of respect that we must have for each other. I think we've had, you know, an inservice about that as well.
 And I don't understand why we continue to step over the idea that we have other people that we're working with and supposed to work with in order to make sure that these things are happening in the best possible manner. Now, I may disagree. I may not disagree. I don't know. But allow me an opportunity to to to be that person. And so when people are calling me, asking me questions about what's going on, I can't properly respond.
 And I don't know if that is a part of what the game is, you know, that we're trying to make him look like he doesn't, you know, know anything. But it doesn't bode well for me or any other members on the council. If I look bad, all you look bad. It works like that.
 So I'm asking for a little bit more fluidity in conversation, but I'm also asking that we do employ that piece in the council agenda that reports for city offices. It will help. I also have a level of discussion with members of my residence about trash pickup.
 I've been getting a lot of phone calls about the lack of trash pickup, the timeliness of it, and also recycling. I know that we're having a problem with people not coming to work or not wanting to work or even like putting people in position to work.
 But, again, here we are. I sent out an email Friday, or maybe it was a Friday. I sent it to President White and some other people, James Mueller as well, about the fact that I had been dealing with the trash pickup situation and the trash had never got picked up. I get a phone call from 301, and then that turns into a whole other thing about how I'm supposed to call 301, and I can't ask for a department head. But if I do ask for a department head, I still need to state why I'm calling.
 And so the level of discussion and conversation for a council person has changed immensely since 2008. I don't even know if I'm even allowed as a council person to even ask questions anymore. I think that that is like off-kilter. And I think that is like wrong. If I am part of the leadership of this community...
 And people are depending on me to be able to provide them answers about the forward movement and direction of the city. I should have the ability to call 311 and speak with the department head because resident A didn't get their trash picked up. I don't know if we don't care anymore or we just don't care if Henry knows anymore. I don't know what that is, but I'm disappointed. Yeah.
 Councilmember Davis, I can tell you that you do have every right to ask anyone within the administration or the council questions. So this issue will be addressed and as we move forward in regards to updates, I do recall you asking that at one of our previous meetings. And so as we move forward, we will have updates from various department heads as we move forward.
 But again, as a council member, you have every right to ask questions and expect to get responses as well. Any council member has that right. Any other items on the unfinished business? Yes. And one more thing. The resolution that I continue to talk about that came out of the council and the leadership of this council pushing it through was awesome. The resolution I'm talking about is a prisoner of release program due to COVID.
 So it has made its way all the way down to Fort Wayne. It passed through Gary Common Council maybe about a week ago, but left their last council meeting. It was about last Tuesday, as a matter of fact. And so we're looking forward to it going for a vote in front of Fort Wayne's Common Council, I think, in next week or two weeks. I think it's next week. And so we're making our way to Indianapolis. They're still...
 Mulling over the details because they only meet one time a week down one time a month out in Indianapolis. So it will be Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, and then hopefully we'll get Evansville to also pass it. So it's making its way throughout the state. And I want to thank all the members of the council for supporting that particular resolution and also your leadership in it.
 Thank you so much. And I apologize for asking for your address. I was thinking I was at the privilege of the floor, so that's my mistake. New business, are there any announcements or any updates that council members might have under new business? Yes, President White? Mm-hmm.
 This is Councilwoman Hammon. Based on conversations from my campaign, I've begun work on an ordinance to regulate waste tire disposal in the city. And I have scheduled a meeting on August 18th at 10 a.m. with the attorneys from the city
 with Dan Buckmeyer and a couple other department people from Code Enforcement. Mr. Buckmeyer is interested in having any business owner that would be impacted by this type of ordinance and regulation around disposal of boys tires.
 to be invited. So I would like to extend an invitation if any of you have someone that you know perhaps would like to be invited to this meeting on August 18th, please contact me and I will make sure that they receive an invite. Thank you. Thank you. Any other council member?
 I would like to make the announcement that we will be starting our budget hearings. The first one will be this coming Wednesday from 5 to 7, if I'm not mistaken. We'd like to encourage our listening audience to really be able to log in. This is the beginning of the process. We'll be having budget meetings.
 from every Wednesday in the month of August, as well as a couple weeks in September. The calendar is available and the public will be able to ask questions as well. Does someone else have any new business that they would like to share?
 Well, President Wyatt, I wanted to thank the council for being a part of the community rally that we had with the school systems of South Bend and Mishawaka and Notre Dame. It was a great turnout. We passed out over 2000 bags and masks and hand sanitizers. And I'll be contacting each council member shortly to have another community rally for getting out to vote. Thank you. Thank you. Any other council members?
 If not, Mr. Sparks, is there anyone waiting under privilege of the floor? Yes, Council President White, there's one individual, Mr. Jesse Davis. Jesse, if you'd like to unmute yourself, please say your name and address for the record. You have five minutes, and I will be keeping time. I think it's three minutes. You have three minutes. I stand corrected, but I will be keeping time. Thank you, Mr. Sparks. Thank you, Mr. Sparks.
 Jesse Davis, PO Box 10205, South Bend, Indiana. I just wanted to jump on and make sure that we don't take our eyes off of the issue of the homeless. I heard this week that at least one person in the 10th city possibly had been hospitalized and at least one person over there had tested positive for COVID-19.
 I had asked the question sometime back when they had winter amnesty open if they had done any mass testing of the homeless people. And at that point, I was basically told no by all the advocates who are out there. So I'm not sure if that's happened. I know that we have.
 shut down the quarantine hotel. And basically, I believe the mayor had said that he has now left the quarantine part of it in the lap of the, um, county health department. So, you know, in light of the fact that someone has tested positive in that homeless encampment, um, I think it's,
 something that's necessary that maybe we look into pushing the county to visit one of the places, maybe Broadway Church or Our Lady of the Road or somewhere where the homeless gather and we try to accomplish a mass testing.
 to make sure that we know exactly what the status is. These people are out there in our community every day. And if they're walking around and they have COVID, they're going into gas stations and other local businesses and things. And a lot of them don't have masks and probably don't have sanitizers. I'm not sure if the,
 hand sanitizer station is out there yet. I was told they were gonna take some Joy Johns and a hand sanitizing station out there, but I just wanna let you know that there has been some positive COVID cases there and we need to stay on top of the homeless issue and keep pushing to find a solution. Thank you, Mr. Davis. Mr. Sparks, is anyone else waiting? Council President White, that exhausts the speaker's list to my knowledge.
 Thank you. If there's no other comments or no one waiting on the privilege of the floor, this meeting stands adjourned. I would ask Council members that you stay safe and healthy and hopefully when you return home, when you're at home, that everything will be well. I do. I've received a lot of emails in regards to the impact that the storm has had on some of our
 So appreciate each and every one of you. We'll see you on Wednesday as we begin the 2021 budget hearings and as we move forward and do the very best for our city, but most importantly, for our residents. Take care. This meeting now stands adjourned.