I went to Desi and I said, I'm going to come to some place. Who's going to be here today? Who's going to be here today? Henry, Walt, Lori, and I think Troy, maybe. Can you hear me? Now we can hear you.
 Good evening. I would like to call Monday, August 14th Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link to this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. To ensure a decent audio quality for everyone during our meeting, all virtual attendees will be muted by default when they are not speaking. If you wish to speak during the meeting regarding specific agenda items during public input,
 Virtual audience, please submit your requests in the chat with your full name and address. Those in the audience in person, come up to the podium and state your name and address for the record, please. Instructions for the virtual audience are also available in the chat.
 During the public input session, each speaker will be given a maximum of five minutes to address the council. For citizens who would like to speak during privilege of the floor, please enter your name and address into the chat. Or when you come up to the podium, you state your name and your address. The council president will then call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak.
 Remember, virtual audience, to unmute yourself before making your comments. Your participation and feedback are valuable to us, and we look forward to a productive meeting. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to welcome Pastor Andre Stoner up for our invocation this evening. Welcome. Thank you, President McBride. I invite us to pray. Good and gracious God, we remember the words you spoke through the Hebrew prophet Jeremiah. Amen.
 Seek the welfare of the city and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare. God, we do seek and pray for the welfare, well-being, wholeness, peace, shalom, justice of our city. We pray for a city where everyone has a roof over their head, where
 When they're in crisis, they get the help they need. When they work a full-time job, they can support their family. God, we pray and seek with our mouth and our hearts, with our hands and our feet, and with our decisions and our votes, because our well-being is interconnected. In its well-being, the well-being of the city, you will find your well-being
 God, I pray tonight for these leaders that you would give them stamina and courage and wisdom. And I pray for our whole community as we together seek the well-being of the city where you have sent us. It is in your holy name we pray. Amen. Thank you. At this time, will we stand for the Pledge of Allegiance? Thank you. Burt Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. He is, I don't know if he's virtual. He's coming for us.
 I don't know. He wasn't. He had said he was coming virtually. You can check. Thank you. I'm checking to see if he's in the virtual audience. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. He's absent. Yep. Vice President Noszkowski. Present. Present.
 president mcbride present we have seven present thank you the reports from the minutes on subcommittee yeah i would uh i would just ask to have this table to the next meeting i'm not with what's been going on not had a chance to review the minutes if we could please make that request mr palmer do we need a motion for that yes
 So I would make that motion to table to the 28th of August. Second. The motion in second and clerk Jones to roll, please. Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member wax. Aye. Council member white. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council vice president Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, I would just like to say, if you are here for questions,
 Bill 2323 that has been tabled until August the 28th and also Bill 4823 has been tabled until August the 28th. With that, I would like to entertain a motion to rise for the committee of the whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye.
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed,
 and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 27-23 a second reading? I'm sorry, 27-23. I want to...
 27-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance and seeking a special exception used for property located at 1319, 1323, and 1333 Lincoln Way West in Councilmanic District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. Bill 2723 was heard in the ZNA committee this afternoon. It was sent to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. As a petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and give us the key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the City of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of this building. The property here in question is at the corner of Lawndale and Lincoln Way West.
 As it's highlighted here in the screen, this used to be a gas station, which then became an auto repair for quite some years. It was an auto sales for a little bit and then sat empty for some years as well. And upon trying to renew their license for auto repair, it was determined that their legal nonconforming status had lapsed. And so we're before you this evening to bring this into conformance.
 As part of the West Side Main Streets plan in the 2020 zoning ordinance adoption, this property was designated as medium density residential. As we've talked about before, sometimes when we have these lots that were auto oriented uses, even though the contaminants have been cleaned up, they're not necessarily great spots for residential. And in this case, the buildings existed for quite some time and the owner is just looking to re-legalize it.
 The site has the old station on it, which has multiple bays, which they would use for the auto repair.
 As it's getting a rezoning and a special exception, this will require some improvements to the property, such as the proper landscaping, addressing the entrances and stuff we've discussed in the past that go along with those approvals. And we've been working with the petitioner to utilize the Vibrant Places grant to help bring that corner up to a little bit higher standard.
 The site's currently vacant as they go through this process. I'll allow the petitioner to come up and talk a little bit about what they do. But this comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation for the rezoning and the special exception. I'd be happy to answer any questions. All right. Can we petitioner? We ask that you state your name and address for the record. My name is Keith Guyton. My address is 1121 Goodland Avenue.
 Just looking to get my building back up to compliance so I can go back to work, get it back operating how it used to be. We just do basic general auto repair there and some sales and service work. All right. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions for the positioner? It's not a question. It was a question was asked in the committee meeting that the underground tanks had been removed. Yes. And that is the case. Correct. Thank you.
 Any other, any other council members? If not, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 27-23? I first want to acknowledge that Council Member Davis has joined the meeting. So I just want to state that for the record. And there is no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak on this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition?
 there is no one um expressing interest to speak in opposition as well at this point the public hearing of build 27-23 is now closed council members are there any statements or anything that you would like to make at all i would just like to say thank you for getting the building back in in in the proper shape and hopefully with the vibrance grant um
 We would love to see Link away with a facelift. And so hopefully they'll be able to help you to be able to do that, to make that spot a welcoming place in our community. So thank you. All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 27-23. Make a motion to send the bill to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll, please.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. State Ayes. All right.
 Um, bill 27 dash 23 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It's been moved and second clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council member white. Hi. Council member Tomas Morgan. Hi. Vice president is asking. Hi. Council member Davis. Hi. Hi.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Motion carries. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 2723 a third reading?
 27-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance and seeking a special exception use for property located at 1319, 1323, and 1333 Lincoln Way West in Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 2723? Yep. Bill 27-23 was heard on the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 2723. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Watts? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 2723 has been adopted. There are no resolutions. We'll go to bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4923 a first reading?
 49-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the acquisition and construction of certain additions and improvements to the municipal waterworks of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the issuance of additional revenue bonds for such purpose in the principal amount not to exceed $47,700,000.
 $91,000 to provide funds for the payment of the costs thereof, addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 4923 to Person on Finance for public hearing and third reading on August 28th. So moved. Second. Moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. At this time, I would open it up to see if there's any unfinished business from council. My council colleagues on virtual, do you have any unfinished business?
 If not, I'll turn to new business. Is there any new business from council? Council Vice President Niskoski. Thank you, President McBride. I just wanted to inform everyone about the kickoff for the budget is going to be this Wednesday from 530 to 730 at Pinhook.
 just out informing residents about this issue with the budget hearings. So all the departments come to the council, they present their budgets, and that is the snapshot of what we're looking at going into October to vote for the budget that's for next year for 2024. They also have what's called Build the Budget, and there's a website on the city website.
 a webpage about Build the Budget. It has all the dates for the budget meetings, all the locations for the budget meetings. Three of them this year will be off-site, so I encourage everyone to go and look at that site. There's also a survey, and that survey is open until September the 10th, and that gets input from residents on how they see the budget to be spent and what they believe the dollars are best to be used for.
 So I just encourage everyone to attend if you're available. And I'll see everybody on Wednesday for the kickoff of the budget. Thank you, President McBride. Thank you. Anyone else? Just want to say that our...
 It was a great event. The various parades and backpack giveaways this past weekend, South Bend Community School Corporation, the Charles Black Center. It was it was amazing. The Brown Intermediate Learning Center event.
 Tons of people, a lot of backpacks and resources given out to the kids. So I just wanted to say thank you to all of those that participate in Southland Community School Corporation and Charles Black Center and all of those that venues, parks and arts and all of the people that work to give back to our kids. It was beautiful. Thank you.
 At this time, I would open it up to the purpose of the floor. If there's anyone in the audience that would like to address the council, you have three minutes. The maximum time for this portion of the meeting will be 30 minutes, and you cannot address anything that was on the agenda for tonight's meeting. So at this time, I would open it up for the purpose of the floor. If you would like to come up and address the council, please come up to the mic and state your name and address for the record. Yes, ma'am, if you...
 Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Alicia Gonzalez, 1348 East Dubelle Avenue in South Bend, Indiana, 46613. Yes, ma'am. Okay. I'm here. This is my first time, but I had some concerns about our neighborhood. Our trash is out of control. The trash is
 On the city grass and then a lot of people putting them in the street. Not just my street. I'm in the 1300 block of Dubelle Street, but all in the rounding areas of Lear Street, Vernon.
 Lear Street, Vernon, Clyde, Dubelle, Dayton, Randolph, people just putting their trash cans out. And trash is so bad where we got critters, groundhogs, raccoons going through it and everything. They're overflowing, people not caring. We just need some help. I don't know what to do. So, and then my second thing is,
 A friend of mine called me and he found a snake in his house. And when he found the snake in his house, he said this woman down the street had put out a flyer that she had lost her snake. And he don't know how it got inside his house, but anywhere I think is.
 It's on Indiana Street and Clyde Street. It's a blue house at the bottom and white at the top. I think it's 1322. I couldn't see the address very good, but it's also right a few feet to a daycare.
 And so I just wanted to call that to you all's attention. I think we have to have a license for dogs and cats. But, you know, it seemed like people need to we need to know if people got snakes and things like that around. And this snake got out and ended up in a house, two houses down the street. But it's real close to a daycare.
 Thank you. Thank you. I'm your council representative. So after the meeting, I can speak with you right here in the middle. Yes. Amen. So I can speak with you after the meeting. Sir, please come up. State your name and address for the record. It's Logan Foster at 1138 College Street. So members of city council.
 From March 1st, 2023 to July 20th of this year, there have been 67 police responses on the 1100 block of College Street on the northwest side of town. For scale, there are 24 houses on our block, 12 on each side. Of those 67 police and 911 responses, there have only been six police reports generated
 That's less than 9% of the service responses have generated a police report. So you can ask me and say, well, maybe they only report certain events. Police reporting should be closer to 100% than to 0%. 9% is not acceptable, especially when we have a pandemic of crime in our city. Specifically, Police Beat 19, where this is referenced and where I live.
 South Bend Police Department Policy 323 defines when officers need to generate reports. At the end of the day, South Bend police are not doing their job, and they are allowing this criminal behavior to continue. If police officers refuse to enforce and write reports for vandalism, suspicious people, nuisance, disturbances, noise, traffic,
 or anything, any other policies or ordinances that the Common Council writes, how will anything change? Why are we here today if they're not going to enforce anything? Just to give you one example, after an argument across the street from my house, a lady drove her car into the crowd of nine women onto the front lawn. Police responded, collected witness testimonies, and no report was created. I even sent them the video
 from my cameras that captured everything and they still did not create a report. This person is walking around free to drive into more crowds of civilians and other front lawns as we speak and I just want to take a second to let that set in before I get to the second point here. And with my remaining time, I would like to share that on June 5th I wrote to my councilman Henry Davis Jr. about the issues going on in District 1 in our block of 1100 College Street
 And I did not receive a response. So Mr. Councilman, who's on this, who's here on the virtually, when I pled for help, I didn't even receive an acknowledgement. So it's now August 14th, two months later. Can you respond to my email? I'm not sure when you email me and in your name, in your name again, I don't mind responding to your email. But what I can tell you, sir, is your issues are with the mayor's office, not with council.
 There's nothing that I can do about telling the police to do their job properly. The mayor can, as well as all the other excitement that you're feeling over there. I will and I can't respond to your email, but I'm telling you where your complaint needs to go in order for it to get the response that you're looking for. What's your name again, sir, please? Yes, it's Logan Foster. And I sent you that email on June 5th.
 Roughly 2 p.m. I probably overlooked it. My mistake. I'm sorry. But your energy is better spent on the 14th floor than with me. But I will respond. And I am, in all fairness, I am spending this energy at the police meetings. And I have cc'd the mayor in with this. And I even asked him to come tonight, too. And he's not here. I'll get to it, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else?
 Please state your name and address for the record. My name is Steve Davis, 1126 College. My complaint is, along with hers, trash. Trash containers being left in the tree lawn, in the front yard, and ordinance says they have to be removed by the end of the day, the day of the trash pickup. I've been told by code enforcement that they are not enforcing this because it's too much of a problem for them.
 And also I've been told by code enforcement, grass height is nine inches. We've got grass in our neighborhood that's over two foot tall. Some places we got it where it's three foot tall. And it don't do any good to contact them because they don't come out and do anything. And the other thing is with code enforcement is that people are parking in their side yards.
 empty lots in their backyards and that is also against an ordinance I've contacted four people here on the council and they all said they'd get back to me and not one of them has gotten back to me on this I don't know who gives code enforcement the authority to not enforce an ordinance but something that should be addressed and found out and find out who's doing it or letting them do it
 Thank you. Thank you so much.
 I would like to say something in response to that. Mr. Davis has worked really hard with trying to keep this area clean. Um, he has one of the nicer homes on the block over here on college street. I've been over there multiple times. I actually went to school with Mr. Davis, his son, uh, junior Steve Davis, junior, uh, anyhow, anyway, um, we've worked really hard. He and I trying to get an attention to what's going on, even right next door to his home. Again, um,
 Our issue is his issue is enforcement of cold. The Council does not push enforcement. And I've said to Mr. Davis that he needs to go and speak with the mayor's office or the mayor himself to get this handled. But under no uncertain terms, I don't think that any resident needs to live in such conditions. If you don't believe me, you should go over there and check it out. But Mr. Davis has been diligent probably for the last two or three years, to be honest with you about these issues.
 And for whatever reason, there is no response from the administration, code enforcement, the mayor himself, et cetera. So I don't know what's going on either. But I think Mr. Davis deserves a response. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else? There's no one virtually expressing interest to speak in the privilege of the floor. Thank you so much. With that being said, this meeting stands adjourned.