Okay, everyone, it is 7 o'clock on Monday, August the 22nd. I would like to call the Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you have some comments you would like regarding the link for the meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat. Directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and address in the chat.
 and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time and the council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you.
 Disrespectful, rude speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in an individual without notice, forfeiting the remainder of his or her or allotted time. So at this time, I'd like to begin by the invocation. We are going to have, we got to have an invitation. Oh, Ken, I'm sorry. Ken Harding is giving our invocation. Sorry about that, Ken.
 Let us pray. Heavenly God, our Father, we first of all like to thank you for your blessings and your mercy and your grace. We thank you for this wonderful city that we live in. We ask for you, for your spirit of peace and guidance and wisdom on our board. We pray that you will touch them and talk to them, Lord. That they work together for the better of the city, for every citizen from the first to the last.
 We ask that you stay with us and keep us in your unchanging hands. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. We're going to now state the Pledge of Allegiance. Please stand. Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. To whom it is due, and to whom it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Could you please call the roll? Roll.
 council member davis here's here council member lee present council member warner present council member wax council yes council member white president council member thomas morgan president council member hammond president vice president niskowski present we have seven present thank you
 Now we're going to move on to a report for, and we do, that means we do have a quorum, by the way, I guess I should say that. We have a report from the subcommittee on minutes. Councilman Warner, I believe you said we had due approval for June 13th and the 27th, but not the July meeting minutes. So do we need a motion to accept the? Okay. Okay.
 Report of subcommittees or minutes. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the June 13, 2022 and June 27, 2022 meetings and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you.
 I would like to make a motion to accept the report from the subcommittee on minutes for the June 13, 2022 and June 27, 2022. Second. Okay, there's been a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, I believe you'll have to call the roll call for every vote since we have members virtually. Yes. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Council Member Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Stasky. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The approval for the June minutes has passed. We are going to move on to special business. Under special business, it was put out there was a special resolution for Congresswoman Jackie Walorski at this time.
 Councilman Eli Wax was unable to attend this and was part of this special resolution, and he has asked this to please be pushed back to the next regular meeting. So that will be at our next meeting, will not be read at this meeting. So if you were here to hear that special resolution, that will be at our next meeting. There are no reports from city offices.
 So at this point, I'll now entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Pastor Lee, are you...
 Yep. Okay. All right. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and separate committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed...
 Ordinance is a zoning ordinance. A report from a staff member will be given and all other situations. The formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Earlier today we had to we had Bill 30 dash 22 that has been rescheduled. Do we do we need to do anything on that at all?
 No, I would just mention 3022 and 3622 were both tabled. Yes, 30-22 and 36-22 were both tabled. So now we will go to Bill 38-22. Clerk Jones, would you give 38-22 a second reading?
 Yes. 3822, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 232 LaPorte Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Yes, the Zoning and Accession Committee met this afternoon and sent this bill to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address. Yes.
 and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening, Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator for the City of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building. The property requested rezoning is 232 LaPorte Avenue. Requesting to go from U1 Urban Neighborhood 1 to U2 Urban Neighborhood 2. The U2 districts are kind of missing middle or gentle density kind of district that would allow for up to four units per property.
 The house is an existing home on LaPorte Avenue, and the property owner actually owns this house in the two vacant lots south of the house. The surrounding properties in the area are all zoned U1 Urban Neighborhood 1.
 As I mentioned, it's an existing residential structure. The residential structure has been occupied by two to three units for quite some time. We found a point in time when the two units was legalized, but we haven't been able to find when the third unit was legally installed and to bring the property into conformance, the property owner has chosen to properly rezone it to the U2 district. Also before you include it in that ordinance,
 which I believe is a substitute. I don't know that we acted on a committee. It is a substitute ordinance. There was not a substitute bill that I'm aware of. It was forwarded to the council as a substitute bill. It said at the top of the bill, substitute bill. It added the special exception.
 Okay, it's not all clear. Do you see a substitute bill come? No, I haven't seen a substitute bill for anything like that. Was I supposed to? I checked my email earlier. I didn't see that. It's on my email. I see it.
 I see it. You see it? I see it. Okay. Was it sent to us? Is this proper, what we voted on out of committee for this meeting? It actually came as a substitute bill out of committee, and I kind of forgot that it was a substitute bill until we got here. I think I'll defer to...
 to make a motion to accept this right i believe we can proceed as long as there's a motion to accept yeah but none of us have read this substitute that's the problem what's the what's different so the difference is the special exception was added for the conversion from a single family to a three family so our u2 district if you're converting an existing home you also have to have a special exception to convert it that was all that was added that special exception was added in there
 It was also outlined in our staff report as the special exception. So we just need to get the substitute. If the council, yeah. Excuse me. Excuse me. I don't want to get too many people. Too many. So at this point, Attorney Palmer, could you please clarify for all of us what we need to do so that the audience and everybody is clear?
 I'm just going to ask for a five-minute recess so we can even read the bill. I don't think it would be responsible on our end just to, like, listen and then move forward. Is that a motion? Yeah, I can make a motion. A motion for a five-minute recess, please. Do I hear a second? Second. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll for a five-minute recess? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Seven ayes. We are in recess for five minutes. Are you able to forward that or would you like me to? Yeah, that'll have to substitute the bill. Are we ready to proceed, Vice President Naskowski? Are we ready? Can you guys hear me? I hear you, Council Member Lee. Council Members online, have you all had an opportunity to look over? Yes, it was emailed to us.
 Okay. Does anybody have any questions? I don't have any questions. Lori, you're muted. Thank you. I have no questions. Okay. Make a motion to accept Substitute Bill 3822. Second. Okay. There's a motion, and it's been seconded to accept the Substitute Bill 38-22. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member White? Aye. Okay.
 Councilmember Tillmast-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The substitute bill has been accepted.
 Sorry for the confusion. I'll continue. No worries. I'm sorry about the confusion on our end. We were not aware there was a substitute bill. So please continue. We appreciate your... I forgot to include that this afternoon. So the rezoning is for the U-2. The special exception comes in when you have an existing structure. This was the clause that we added to the zoning ordinance to make sure that existing single-family homes weren't improperly kind of cut up.
 When not appropriate in the U2 district. So this is what we call the conversion clause of the ordinance. I know it's very important in this neighborhood. At the time they filed, that wasn't something we were kind of thinking about. And that's why the special exception got added before it went to the planning commission. So everything's been properly advertised. The petitioner is not proposing any changes to the structure. It already exists in the configuration to which they're selling it.
 any additional conversion, like if they try to add the fourth unit or whatever, would require them to come back before the council to amend that special exception. So I just wanted to make sure that that was on the record that everybody knew they couldn't continue to divide this up any further than it is without a public process. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation, subject to a code inspection, which I believe the property owners agreed to. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
 And the petitioner is present. Petitioner, would you like to add any comments? I believe I talked this afternoon about it to all of you. The only thing she mentioned, the city requested an inspection. The inspections have been done. Two units were approved, and there were a couple minor items that are completed, so it needs to be re-inspected. My name is Steven J. Eddy, 23600 Roosevelt Road, South Bend, Indiana, 46614. All right. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? No.
 Any of the council members virtually? Do you have any questions? Okay. No. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of substitute bill 38-22? I'm checking. There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of bill 38-22. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of substitute bill 38-22?
 There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of Bill 3822. At this point, the public hearing on substitute Bill 38-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? I wouldn't, Mr. Lee.
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Eddy, for coming twice today, and thank you for taking the time and the effort and the patience to go ahead and get this done properly and zoned properly, and for your investment in the community. Thank you for that. Any other council members? Mr. Lee, if I could make a statement.
 Yes. Thank you, Chair. Mr. Eddy, I, too, just want to thank you for the superb stewardship that you've done with this home and in the neighborhood. And sorry to lose you as the landlord and landowner, but trust that you're passing it on to good hands. Anyone else? I would just like to say thank you, Mr. Eddy, for...
 maintaining this property since 1983. I think that's what you said earlier. And again, these types of housing situations are always good for the community.
 with it already being made into a place for three people. A lot of the big issues is finding places where people can get a one bedroom. And so by you selling it and it going to continue to be used as a multipurpose family dwelling, thank you and we wish you the best.
 At this time, I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 38-22. Is there a motion? I make a motion to send Substitute Bill 38-22 to the full council with favorable recommendation. Second. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll on Substitute Bill 38-22? Yes. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 38-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, please take the roll. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Aye. Vice President Natschoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Seven ayes. All right, the motion carries. We are now back in the hands of Vice President Sheila Nagoski.
 Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of the meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, would you please? Oh, I guess I can also mention that bills 3022 and 3622 are both tabled, which leaves one bill that would be substitute bill 3822. Clerk Jones, could you please give that a third reading? Yes. Thank you.
 38.22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 232 LaPorte Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilman Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding the bill? Yes, Substitute Bill 38-22 is sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I'd like to make a motion that substitute bill 38-22 would be adopted by the council. Second. There's been a motion. It's been duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Naskowski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill 38-22 has passed. We'll now move on to resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting that we're going to be doing
 where the common council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions the title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to it for advisory review review and recommendations is then given this also requires a public hearing
 So resolution 22-41, Clerk Jones, could you please read the title of the resolution? Yes, 2241, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution.
 Designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 505 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year mixed-use real property tax abatement for the Monroe LLC.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Tomas Morgan, is there a committee report? Yes, Vice President. Bill 2241 came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. And I see we have a presenter. Good evening, Council Members. Caleb Bauer, Acting Executive Director of the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you tonight is the confirming resolution for the Monroe development at the former Fat Daddy's site.
 This is a mixed use development that would be. We're proposing receiving an eight year abatement, and this is to support a tax credit proposal to the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority for this project.
 This is a commitment of $13.9 million in investment if the project were to move forward. And the proposed project is a four-story, 65,000-square-foot mixed-use and multifamily building. It would include some retail elements on the first floor and apartment units on portions of the first floor and then second, third, and fourth floors.
 And I believe I shared this in committee, but it would include a majority of the units would be income qualified at different levels. And then 14 of the units would be market rate apartments. And I think that's all I have. If you have any questions. Okay. Thank you so much for that. Is there any questions from the council regarding the presentation? Any members?
 and i don't see anyone online okay then we're going to go move then to the public portion is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of resolution 22-41 there is no one from the pub virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of resolution 2241 okay is there anyone wishing to speak against there is no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak against
 Resolution 2241. Okay, thank you. We're going to come back to the council members. Any comments? Seeing none, is there a motion in regards to Bill 22-41? I would like to move for passage. Adoption. Second. Okay, there's been a motion. It's been duly seconded to move for adoption for Bill 22-41. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 council member warner council member white council member tomas morgan council member hammond thank you bill 22-41 has been adopted thank you mr bauer okay we are going to move to bills that are on first reading uh clerk jones could you please give bill 40-22 a first reading
 4022, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1702 West Western Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 40-22 to Zoning Appeals for September the 9th and to ZNA Committee and Council for Public Hearing and Third Reading on September the 12th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The motion has passed. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 41-22 a first reading? 41-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1345 North Michigan Street, Councilmanic District Number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 41-22 to Zoning Appeals on September 19th and to ZNA Committee and Council for public hearing and third reading on September the 26th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member Lee. Second.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The bill has passed, or the motion has passed, rather. Moving on, Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 42-22 a first reading?
 42-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, replacing and amending Chapter 2, Article 1, Sections 2-1 through and including 2-9 of the South Bend Municipal Code to update and clarify procedures for the South Bend Common Council in the Office of the City Clerk. Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 42-22 to the Rules Committee and the Council for public hearing and third reading on September the 12th.
 So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. The motion has passed. Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 43-22 a first reading?
 43-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending various articles and sections of Chapter 17 of the South Bend Municipal Code to address late fees for city utility customers and renaming the low-income customer assistance program as the utility assistance program.
 Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send Bill 43-22 to the Personal and Finance Committee and for Council for public hearing and third reading on September the 12th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 council member warner all right seven eyes thank you clerk jones the motion has passed so that's all of our first reading bills moving on um to unfinished business is there any unfinished business seeing none we're going to move on to new business i would like to offer that zoe tembo has been our public relations intern um and this is her last day she's going to be attending
 Loyola University of Maryland in Baltimore. And we wish you all the best of luck as you pursue your higher education. Is there any other council members that would like to say anything under new business? Yes, I just want to say, we look forward to seeing great things from Zoe. She's done a remarkable job over the summer. And I really hate that I'm not there
 in person. But we wish you the very best. And hopefully once you get your education, you'll come back to South Bend or over the summers and come back and continue to work with us because you did a great job. Clerk Jones. Yes. I would just like to thank Zoe for being in the clerk's office. We enjoyed her. I will miss seeing her every morning. And but I wish you all the best as you go to school. Thank you.
 Thank you. And we do wish you all the best of luck, Zoe. Okay, moving on, we're going to move on to the privilege of the floor. Before we go into the privilege of the floor, I'd like to read a statement.
 That disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address.
 Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics, which the council has heard previously on the agenda.
 the council president may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled meeting is there anyone present wishing to speak on the privilege of the floor sir if you would please come forward and state your name and address for the record
 My name is Joseph Jones. My residential address is 1302 Woodfield Avenue in South Bend, Indiana. It's nice to see everybody from the Council this evening. I am here to address a bill that went through the Council earlier this year. Bill 22-12, Resolution 4947-22. Simplest way I understood this bill was this was addressing
 loss of funds to the city of South Bend and other such cities, should there be adjustments made in Indianapolis to the business and personal property taxes. What I would like to say in regards to that is this. During the period of 2019 through 2021, which encompassed the height of the COVID pandemic, I worked at a couple of different jobs which were on the road. One was as a delivery driver with a company.
 I went to places like Allen County, Vanderbilt County, DeKalb County, Noble County, cities like Fort Wayne and New Haven, Grayville, Evansville, Highland, Auburn, Garrett, Kendall, Ligonier, places in LaGrange County, for that matter, places in counties in Michigan even. But for the purposes of Indiana, those places, in my opinion, do not, we should not be looking to those places through programs like...
 the business and personal property tax program at the state level to generate the revenue we need in a city like South Bend or any other city for that matter, be it Gary, East Chicago. I would say the same thing if I lived there and was addressing those councils. Those places don't owe us anything any more than we owe them anything. I understand the concept of cities, counties working cooperatively. If any members of the council, Mr. Warner is actually my council representative. If anybody on the council would like to speak,
 At some time other than here, there's not enough time here. I've got an idea, proposal, whatever you want to call it, that I believe it would take time to implement. It wouldn't be something that you can snap your fingers and it would happen. But I believe there are people in the city of South Bend, inside and outside of the government structure, that would know how to implement it, who may have even heard of it before, that
 that has to do with taxation and how taxation is done, how taxation is collected, that in the long haul would generate the same, if not more, revenue than we have historically or are currently receiving through funds coming from downstate through the business and personal property tax. Fifteen seconds, sir. Thank you very much, and I will conclude my comments there. Okay, thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak under the privilege of the floor?
 There is no one from the virtual audience that is expressing interest to speak on the privilege of the floor. Thank you. Then if there is no other business, we stand adjourned.