police force and fire department and we just ask God that your grace would hover over our city and continue to prosper South Bend and as we make decisions that will help to impact the future we ask that you would be with us in every decision. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Would you please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands one nation under
 INDIVISIBLE, WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL. THANK YOU. CLERK JONES, THE ROLE, PLEASE. OKAY. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS IS ABSENT. COUNCILMEMBER LEE? PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER? PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER WAX? PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE? PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS MORGAN? PRESENT. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND? PRESENT. VICE PRESIDENT NISKOWSKI? PRESENT. PRESIDENT MCBRIDE? PRESENT. YOU HAVE A PRESENT. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
 There are no reports from the subcommittee on minutes, nor is there any special business or reports from the city offices. I would like to say if you are here for Bill 4423, that has been tabled until September 25th. And if you are here for Bill 4823, that has been tabled until September 11th. Again, Bill 4423 is tabled until September 25th.
 And Bill 4823 is tabled until 9-11. With that being said, I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading and a public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 23-23 a second reading?
 2323, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for a property located at 3003 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to us this evening with a favorable recommendation. I see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. My name is Tim Corcoran. I'm the Director of Planning for the City of South Bend. I'm stepping in for Angela Smith this evening, the Zoning Administrator.
 Let me see if I can put this on the full screen for you today. Okay. Well, I've watched her do this a lot of times, but I'm just going to kind of wing it. So, yes, this bill comes to you with favorable recommendation from the Zoning and Analyzation Committee this afternoon. This property is located at 3003 Lincoln Way West. It's highlighted in the black box here on the screen.
 The petitioner is requesting a special exception for vehicle sales or rental. The based on our staff recommendation is based on the information available prior to the public hearing. The staff recommends the board send the petition to the Common Council with a favorable recommendation. This is a picture of the site. And then.
 The proposed use as a vehicle rental facility is compatible with the surrounding area. The site is in close proximity to the Bendix node of the Westside Main Streets plan and is occupied by commercial industrial uses. The site will be brought up to current standards which will improve traffic safety through the closure of one of the curb approaches there, additional landscaping and other site conditions.
 So this is actually, it's seeking a special exception for vehicle rentals. Okay. And this comes to the Common Council with a favorable recommendation. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? I know that. And the petitioner is here. Is the petitioner with us? Please, please come and state your name and address for the record, please. And any other statements you'd like to make. Lanier Vaughn, 2506 Bergen Street, South Bend, Indiana. Okay.
 No, you say what? If you like, yeah, that's good. Any statements or anything you'd like to put on the record for this? No, just excited that we get to participate in improving the look of the area over there. So thank you. All right. Council people, do we have any questions? Yes. Vice President Miszkowski. Yes, thank you, Chair.
 Just had a question when you talked about the special exemption at first you said vehicle sales it says or rental and
 So if the U-Haul place... I wanted to clarify that there's, speaking of special exception for vehicle rentals only. So it cannot revert to a sales lot. Right. So this is, it's very specific as to what this special exception's for. And so if vehicle sales were desired in the future, they would have to come back for an additional, to amend this special exception to include that.
 And then I just want to make sure for the record, we're showing a little bit different highlighted here than those partials you're showing here. So I believe the parcel that's outlined here, is it the full parking lot, Jamila, or is it just this one? The man, he owns it all. And we are the more, if you move that blue sign back, the blue line back to that park.
 the entire yeah so yeah i don't even know whether yeah so right there where that building is that is a barber shop and then the little um parking lot that belongs to the barbershop but then the empty space that's the spark we're talking about so there's no building or anything there because the next slide makes it look like you're only yeah yeah yeah yep so it should be it should go over that other go over that area yeah
 So are the partial numbers going to be clarified for the right? I think he does have them separate. OK. Yeah. OK. Thank you. All right. Any other council members? I can say that I do know these individuals that are endeavoring to have the U-Haul there. Of course, the closest U-Haul was on Western Avenue.
 Being a person who had to utilize a U-Haul, it makes sense. And being able to do it where you don't have to have a building is a smart business investment. And although this is the second kind of first kind of, you know, in that area, I'm sure that they're going to do a great job of making it something worth, something impactful. So at this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 23-23? Okay.
 There is no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 2323. Is there anyone present or online wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one online expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 23-23 is now closed. Council members, any statements? If not, I will entertain a motion regarding Bill 23-23.
 I'll make the motion that Bill 23-23 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. It's been a motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizkowski. Aye.
 Aye. CHRISTIE WOODARD- President McBride. Aye. CHRISTIE WOODARD- Eight ayes. All right. Bill 23-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 49-23 a second reading?
 4923, PUBLIC HEARING ON AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BENN, INDIANA, AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BENN, INDIANA, AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL REVENUE BONDS FOR SUCH PURPOSE IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $47 MILLION.
 $791,000 to provide funds for the payment of the cost thereof, addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, this was heard in personal and finance today in the committee and it was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. All right. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Thank you, Councilmember Lee. Eric Horvath, I'm the Public Works Director with offices on 13th floor of this building. The ordinance in front of you is so that the City can issue bonds for waterworks construction projects. This is part of our long-term capital improvement plan that we had
 that we had laid out a couple years back and had asked at that time the council consider improving rate increases that would support the revenue needed to do these capital projects and we had anticipated as part of that that we would be doing bonds. We got through the IURC approval process in January of this year and have started designing the first projects
 major project in the first series of bonds will issue is on fellows booster station, which is critical for serving the south side of South Bend with its water needs and also one that council members have visited and was built in the late 70s and and
 or actually mid 70s and is well past its useful life. So we need to do improvements there. So this first series of bonds will go to support that project and the rest of it will go to support the remaining projects that are in our capital improvements plan that we had submitted to council in 21. Happy to answer any questions. Is there any questions at all? Council members, are there any questions? All right, if not, we will go to the public portion.
 Clerk Jones, is there anyone looking to speak in favor of Bill 49-23? There's no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of 49-23. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of 49-23? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in opposition of Bill 49-23.
 At this point, public hearing portion on Bill 49-23 is now closed. Council members, anyone want to make statements or? Chair Warner, please. Chair Warner, Quick statement. I know we all went and saw the infrastructure that was 50 and 60 years old.
 All of us have committed to making sure that we invest in our water infrastructure and do our best to make sure it's safe for the city of South Bend and its residents. And we took the first step in 2021, and now I'm glad we can be able to get this step done and get the bond and get the financing and get the projects underway. Thank you.
 Anyone else? Councilman Wex. Thank you. I'll be brief. We did talk about this more extensively in committee, so I'm not going to repeat everything. I just want to say, like Councilmember Warner just mentioned, while this is a steep cost for this project, it's a necessary improvement to one of the most vital resources for our city and its residents. We can't imagine a city without a safe, abundant supply of water. So, again,
 IT'S A BIG EXPENSE BUT IT'S A NECESSARY EXPENSE. THE SYSTEM IS LONG OVERDUE. I WOULD CONTINUE TO URGE AND I KNOW WE ARE DOING THAT ALREADY BUT WHATEVER FEDERAL OR STATE RESOURCES MAY BE AVAILABLE TO COVER IN PART THIS PORTION OF IT OR FUTURE PORTIONS OF IT WE SHOULD KEEP ON LOOKING AT FOR THIS. THANK YOU. I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SAY THAT I HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO TOUR THE
 the treatment plants and the sea, see all of that. And it is, we, I have relatives that live in Flint and we never want what happened in that area to happen here in South Bend. So again, thank you for all that you've done to lead us to this point so that we can make sure that the water is safe for South Bend and that our residents receive the proper services that we need.
 If no one else has anything else say we will now entertain a motion We'll make a motion to send bill 49 23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation Second all right, it's with a motion and it's been seconded clerk Jones. Please call the roll Council member wax I
 Vice President Naskowski? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. All right. It has been a motion. It's been voted on. And Bill 49-23 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Wax? Aye.
 Council member White. Aye. Council member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Aye. Vice president Neskowski. Aye. Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. We will now rise and return to the full council. Thank you.
 Again, if anyone is here for bill 4423, it has been tabled until September 25th. And if you are here for bill 4823, that has been tabled until September 11th. We will move into the portion of bills on third reading. The full council is back in session. This is the portion where the bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you give bill 2323 a third reading? Yes.
 23 23 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council the city of South Bend Indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 3003 Lincoln Way West councilman ik district number two in the city of South Bend, Indiana Thank You councillor Lee is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding bill 23 23? Yes president
 Bill 23-23 was heard and the committee behold, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 23-23. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Iskowski? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 2323 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4923 a third reading?
 4923, THIRD READING ON AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BENN, INDIANA, AUTHORIZING THE ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ADDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BENN, INDIANA, AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL REVENUE BONDS FOR SUCH PURPOSE IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $47,791,000.
 to provide funds for the payment of the cost thereof, addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith. Thank you.
 Councillor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 4923? Yes, Bill 49-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4923. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Tillman-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Iskoski? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 4923 has been adopted.
 We are now at the portion of our resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where the common council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of these proposed resolution is read by the city clerk, a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and a recommendation is given. During the public portion on each resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council.
 We ask that you please state your name and address and comment on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes, with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2334 a reading? 2334, Resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, correcting scrivener's error in Resolution No. 5.
 5031-23 designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 YES, PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. THIS CAME TO COMMUNITY INVESTMENT THIS AFTERNOON AND COMES TO THE FULL COUNCIL WITH A FAVORABLE RECOMMENDATION. THANK YOU. POTENTIAL. WELCOME. HI. THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBERS. ERIC LAVICH, DIRECTOR OF GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT OFFICES ON THE 14TH FLOOR OF THIS BUILDING. BEFORE YOU FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION AS A RESOLUTION THAT WOULD CORRECT
 Two previously passed resolutions, a declaratory resolution and a confirming resolution for a tax abatement for peak investment and asset management. This is for property that's at the corner of Elwood and Portage. In late June and early July, council passed the resolutions for abatement.
 Just as a reminder, this was the resolution, excuse me, this was the abatement that was involving two brand new retail buildings on that corner. It was presented to council as a complete project, two buildings separated by parking in between them.
 OUR OFFICE HAD MADE AN ERROR IN DRAFTING THE RESOLUTIONS THAT COUNCIL HAD APPROVED. WE INADVERTENTLY INCLUDED ONLY ONE OF THREE PARCELS. THE PARCEL THAT IS ON THE CORNER. WHEREAS WE SHOULD HAVE INCLUDED TWO ADDITIONAL PARCELS TO THE WEST. YOU CAN SEE ON YOUR SCREEN THE RED PART.
 parcel, excuse me, was what was included, excuse me, in the original resolutions and the resolution that you will be considering now would add the two parcels to correct the abatement to ensure that Mr. Praveen Gulati, who was the petitioner, would receive the full benefit of the tax abatement as passed by council. Thank you. Council, do you have any questions? No, at this time I will turn it to the public
 to see if there's anybody wishing to speak in favor of resolution 23 34 There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of this resolution Thank you with that said I'll turn to see if there's anyone is wishing to speak in opposition of resolution 23 34 There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in opposition of this resolution
 Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to council. Do you have any comments? If none, I will entertain a motion. I move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 Thank you. Resolution 2334 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2353 a reading? 2353, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving and adopting the Monroe Park Edgewater Neighborhood Plan. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. This came to Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Welcome, petitioner. Good evening. Good evening.
 Yeah, there you go. Thank you. My name is Tim Corcoran. I'm the director of planning for the city of South Bend with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Thank you for your consideration this evening for the Monroe Park Edgewater neighborhood plan. So I wanted to just briefly run through some of the work that we have been doing in the last few years. This is the city of South Bend.
 And the areas here are areas in which we've been doing neighborhood planning. The blue shapes are areas that have been completed, 10 neighborhoods that have been completed. There are two in progress. Those are the green areas of River Park and LaSalle Park. And the pink area in the middle is the Monroe Park Edgewater area, which we were talking about tonight.
 So one of the things I wanted to highlight and reiterate is what is a plan? What is a neighborhood plan? So first of all, it's a time frame. The time frame is it's a shared long-range vision for the future. This is a five to twenty year time frame. This coincides with the city's comprehensive plan. These neighborhood plans are amendments to the city's comprehensive plan. It is primarily a physical plan to address things in the built environment.
 It's a statement of what the neighborhood wants to achieve and a strategy to reach those goals. It's a guide for making decisions from city departments, the Common Council, Plan Commission, and other stakeholders and partners. And it's a starting point for more detailed public engagement as individual projects are pursued. But ultimately, it seeks to address specific issues in each of those neighborhoods.
 Because one of the things that we talk about a lot is infrastructure, and every neighborhood wants their streets repaved. But we have a broad city plan for that. But there are instances where there are unsafe intersections or places that are specific to that neighborhood that need to be addressed. And infrastructure is one of the things that I believe the city does pretty well when it comes to trying to address those issues.
 This is the corner of Riverside and California in the NNN. This is under construction. It's finished now, and it's an example of some of the things that we are trying to work on as we do these neighborhood plans.
 Parks and trails, another big type of amenity within neighborhoods in which the city does a pretty good job of implementing these things. We work with VPA to implement and design parks, River Park. We're looking at Pottawatomie Park this year, for instance. Yes?
 And the other big thing is land use policy. So every neighborhood plan has a proposed zoning map in that. That becomes the policy for the city, and we make recommendations based on those changes when new development occurs.
 There are other things that neighborhood plans seek to address, and housing is a big one. As you know, our department has been pretty focused on delivering new housing of all types, but specifically affordable housing as well. But these are areas in which the zoning policy, maybe some of the things related to parks or streets, contribute to an environment in which housing is possible. But we need the partners to deliver that housing. In this case, 466 Works.
 and First Source Bank, it seems, that helps deliver two new homes in the southeast neighborhood. And we also do large scale projects. This is a tax credit project. This is the Monroe project on the corner of Monroe and Main Street, or sorry, MLK Michigan Street, across from the post office.
 And we needed a partner here as well to help us deliver this project and one in which the city supported and we were fortunate to, and the developer was fortunate to get a tax credit project. So that kind of sets the scene for this neighborhood plan and others as they come through the adoption process. But for the Monroe Park Edgewater neighborhood plan,
 This is the planning boundary bounded in the north by Jefferson Street, on the south by Sample Street, the river to the east and MLK and Michigan to the west. It's a really interesting part of the city because it really feels like it's a fulcrum between a lot of different areas within the city, and it's a really interesting place where some good connections can happen. We did a lot of public engagement.
 So we first start off as always doing stakeholder meetings, specifically with the neighborhood association, any other community organizations, businesses, developers, faith-based organizations, Transpo, in this case Habitat for Humanity is a specific stakeholder in the Monroe Park neighborhood, but also city departments to get an understanding from their perspective what are some of the issues and needs of the neighborhood. Thank you.
 But we have to let residents know that this process is going to happen. In this case, we were able to do a door hanger for every resident in the neighborhood, something that was a little bit easier because there weren't as many residents in this area as there are, for instance, in River Park where it goes from hundreds to thousands.
 We also utilized our Together South Bend online engagement platform and hundreds if not maybe in the thousands of postcards at multiple times to alert neighbors to the fact that there are going to be these public meetings as well as opportunities to take surveys and participate either online with that Together South Bend webpage.
 In November of last year, we began the visioning workshop for this plan, where we invited residents and stakeholders to join us together to speak about things that they like about their neighborhood, things they'd like to see changed, issues that they see. And we take all that information, including the information from the website,
 to come back, we like to have moments where we're able to come back to the residents multiple times to talk about did we hear you correctly? Are the things that you said, we tried to repeat that back and is there anything that we're missing?
 And then when we move beyond that, we think about, well, what are the top things that we've heard that if we were to try to address in the short, medium, long term, what are the things that really, really matter out of all the things that we've heard? And that's what we discussed at the priorities workshop.
 And finally, we take all that information, we synthesize it down, we try to put it into a package that becomes what is the draft neighborhood plan. And then we take that plan and we present it back to the neighborhood through an open house where, again, we repeat back all the information that we've heard, let people, give them an opportunity to say, yep, there's things that are missing, but most of it's right. And we take that as an opportunity to amend the plan if necessary.
 and we then move forward to the plan commission and council where we are tonight. The major issues that we heard from residents really fall into three broad categories. Streets and transportation, specifically traffic calming along Monroe Street, Lincoln Way East, but also South Street and Carroll Street. Improved street connections through an area we're calling Riverfront West, which I'll get to in a moment.
 improved general improvement to sidewalks and enhance the connectivity of the West Bank Trail and Howard Park. Housing is an issue as well that was discussed a lot specifically about homeownership in the neighborhood and the need for a housing repair program and code enforcement to perhaps be a little bit more active in the neighborhood.
 Some other amenities include better riverfront access to Howard Park. One of the things that was really interesting to us was that the residents of Monroe Park and Edgewater often see Howard Park as their neighborhood park and it's actually very close. There's a pedestrian bridge across the river that provides that access, but the experience of getting from their house to the park isn't the best. And so that's one of the things that we wanted to look at improving through this plan.
 So, we try to take all those ideas and try to synthesize them down into a graphic that can illustrate a lot of the ideas. And those ideas are represented both in sort of symbols, little design vignettes. If you zoom in, you can see little buildings drawn in there. And each of those numbers represent, say, like a project, an individual project for the neighborhood.
 Those projects are sort of spelled out here where we give a little brief description. In each of these then we dive into further detail and I'll describe a few for you. One of the areas is we call the Monroe Street area. Currently one of the focal points along Monroe Street is this
 problematic but could be beautiful building on the right there. I think most of us have seen this blue-gray building before. The vacant lot in the back and the streetscape itself.
 and what it could be. And this is that same building, but with the windows opened up and a new development in the back. And one of the interesting parts about this is that we're already getting interest, and we've shown the draft plan to a few other developers who are thinking, like, that would be a really great place to put housing. And I say, you're right, and here it is, and we've drawn it. So it's already been a valuable piece of information for us to speak with people.
 but it also lays out a potential future streetscape of Monroe Street
 which would be a connecting street. And what I mean by that is instead of dividing this neighborhood from the areas to the north and between Monroe Park and Edgewater, that it could become a street that really allows people to cross, to utilize, to use as a way to get between places in a much more safe and easy manner, especially crossing the street, which is one of the main barriers for folks wanting to get to Howard Park.
 The riverfront west area, this is the area bounded by Jefferson Street, Monroe, the river, and MLK. This area was really wiped out in the 50s and 60s through an urban renewal project.
 There was a really large dream for this area that it was going to have like this massive civic center with a mall and towers popping out of it. And I have the document in my office. If you ever are up there, I can show you what it was supposed to be. But those dreams of urban renewal across the country rarely were materialized and certainly did not materialize here.
 What we ended up getting was a lot of parking lots and now some vacant office buildings that are no longer really useful, and a post office that is not used as it once was for the sorting facility. So even the post office itself is not being fully used. What we wanted to show here is a way that we could use new streets and blocks,
 to recreate not exactly what had been there in the past, but something new that would allow us to achieve some of those objectives about connecting the Monroe Park and Edgewater neighborhoods to Howard Park, to downtown, to the library, but also because it is that interesting place where people could walk through, but also allow people from the East Bank to move towards, say, the baseball stadium. And it really is an interesting place within our city that is highly underutilized,
 right now and could be an amazing new development site for the city.
 And this is what it could look like. This is along the river. This is a place right now that feels like it's in the back of something. I think sometimes the first time I walked through here, I felt like I was actually somewhat trespassing behind the office buildings. It's called the privatization of public domain is the planning term for that. When you don't feel comfortable being in public places because of the built form around it makes you feel uncomfortable, like you shouldn't be there.
 Well, the new buildings that we're proposing would be active on the ground floor, allow for residents maybe who also live on the ground floor to have places that open up towards the park, add that value of that amenity there, but also allow for more eyes on the park. Right now it can feel unsafe at night, but with more people, the safety element increases and it really can become a much more vibrant place.
 The bridge in the background is the current pedestrian bridge across the Howard Park. And so we're really looking at ways to maximize the potential amenity of the river, which is something that we've traditionally turned our back to. So it's something that can really become an asset for our community. Thank you.
 The cloverleaf area in the southern portion of the site, another big interesting project. We applied for a raise grant, a federal grant, DOT grant, and we were awarded money to investigate the removal of the cloverleaf ramps last year. And we're in the beginning, the process of that right now.
 But what would come after those ramps are removed? And this is what the plan seeks to address. So what we've shown in those areas are one way in which new buildings and new uses could occur in a lot of those underutilized areas. What we discovered through this process was that you can remove all of the ramps that are there
 And just through connecting Marietta Street down at the Sample Street, you can achieve all of the same traffic turning movements that you do today. It might take just a little bit longer, but for the most part, all the convenience that is there today can be achieved without it. But yet you gain all this land back, you get to reutilize Sample Street, which is a
 one-way sort of eastbound, and it can be two-way. So there's a lot of advantages to making that connection, and what could it be? And this is sort of a, if you're in a drone looking back towards the Monroe or Edgewater neighborhood with Monroe Park in the background, the green sort of common area, that green space in the lower left, is where a ramp is right now.
 So this is a great way in which we could, again, utilize our riverfront in a way that maximizes the potential and the amenity of the resource that we have in a way that can both...
 help the city overall, but also create, take that unnecessary, I call it the most redundant piece of infrastructure in the United States, but because of all the reasons that it were put in place, did not exist when it was finished, which was to get Studebaker factory workers to the Studebaker factory.
 But yeah, it's able to kind of stitch this neighborhood and this part of the neighborhood back together again in a way that I think can really play a role in healing this part of the city. Another area is the corner of Michigan and Monroe. And you see in the background is where the current post office is.
 And the way we see this potentially playing out is that you really start to fill in those corners. I think our illustrator specifically left the gas station out. We have hopes and dreams for that. But the building on the right, the gray building, that's the Monroe building. That's the building that Devereux Peters is going to build. That's the facade of that building, and we're showing it in place. That's something that's going to hopefully break around next year.
 But we have those dreams of what could potentially be in the riverfront west site, which is where the post office is now. And looking at how the streetscape could really make a nice, beautiful connection between each of these corners of this area. Okay. As in every plan, we look at streets and transportation. We look at things like...
 Where streetscape improvements can occur where there can be potential new street connections traffic calming and intersection improvements And one of the interesting things that sort of occurred to me as we were doing this Was that if you take this this particular diagram? You can take the same one from the other neighborhood plans that we've done And if you remember that first graphic that I showed you right at the top of the presentation you can start to see how these all start to fit together and as we try to fill in those other little parts of
 of the city, including Twickenham Hills in the future, you can start to see how this transportation network, it starts to fill itself out, including things like bike infrastructure and pedestrian trails, and how each of these things can connect together to really create this broader amenity for the residents of South Bend that make it a more livable and attractive place to live.
 You know we heard loud and clear that housing was a big issue now We know this across the city, but specifically to the Monroe Park neighborhood 80% of the survey respondents talked about repair of existing homes
 And while I mentioned that this is a physical plan relating to the policy of usually building new things, we take this information and we use it. It's broadcast back to other areas within our department as well as other departments to say like, while this plan may not specifically address housing repair,
 the point that it's in there is something for the broader administration then to understand that residents are really concerned about that in their neighborhood. So we take that as a feedback loop that is necessary in order to perhaps next year and the coming years look at how we might deploy the housing repair program in different parts of the city.
 60% of respondents talked about the need for more home ownership. Again, not easy to dictate how that might work in a neighborhood plan, but we can take that as something where we can connect residents to other programs that the city has, including our first homebuyers assistance program and other things that we might start to look into to help realize those objectives that the residents have.
 One thing that we're working on right now is taking the Taylors Field and Edgewater Historic Districts and nominating them for the National Historic Registry, which would allow residents in these districts to utilize tax credits for rehabilitation of their properties.
 So right now, while they're in historic districts and there's certain protections to it, some people might see that as sort of a stick rather than a carrot. Well, this helps with the carrot side of that equation. So it helps people comply with the extra level of rigor that goes into the modification or new developments of homes and businesses in these areas. And...
 we hope can positively impact the rehabilitation of a lot of properties in this area. Another innovation that we started in this plan that we plan on carrying forward, but also potentially looking back across some of the plans that we've completed recently, is a tree canopy study for the neighborhood.
 We used Google Lidar information to determine where trees are currently and then looked at how we could infill new trees just within city right-of-way as a way to help increase the current tree canopy from It seems not a lot but from 7% now to 16 and a half and that's percent just through planting trees along the street and
 So, I think there's a broader goal of trying to get to a 30% tree canopy coverage by 2050, but this is just one way in which we can help achieve that goal and it's something that we can do right now as we control the right-of-way and we can start to plant some of those trees right away.
 Building types and zoning another big part of the plan and This is a common page through all the neighborhood plans where we illustrate the different zoning types or building types I should say that relate to different zoning districts all these are examples of buildings in South Bend sometimes even in this neighborhood and
 And those are important because what they relate to are the colors on this map. This is the zoning map for the neighborhood. This is the current zoning map. And every neighborhood plan takes the current zoning. We look through engagement with the residents. We look at is there ways that we might want to change that. And in this case, we didn't change a lot. So the proposed zoning map really just looks at
 primarily replacing some of the commercial zoning districts to neighborhood center. Some of these properties were deemed problematic properties for the neighborhood and that commercial building form
 isn't necessarily doesn't necessarily work with the urban neighborhood that's there. So that's one of the things we also looked at creating an open space zone along Monroe Street, there's sort of a green in front of the Monroe apartments and reformalizing that in zoning and it could become for instance a small little pocket park for the city I think we already maintain it but this kind of formalizes that.
 At the end of the day, we have to take this and figure out a strategy to implement the ideas in this plan. And so every plan has an implementation matrix. In this case, the box on the left illustrates action items within this plan. These relate directly back to that neighborhood plan graphic that I showed you and other ideas that are in the plan.
 We look at who might be responsible to deliver those action items. A lot of it's on the city, but there's also partners that we need to help deliver, for instance, new housing.
 or other elements in DOT we would need to help us with the cloverleaf for instance. So we have to identify those partners and we'll work with them to deliver on those action items. And we also try to guesstimate a timeframe in which those things can be delivered in a sort of a short, medium and long term type of, you know, timeframe horizon.
 And, you know, all that together sort of sums up from the community engagement through ideas and reiterating with the neighborhood multiple times, including going to many, many neighborhood association meetings just to give minor updates because these things can take a long time and we want to make sure that they know we're still working on it.
 Together, that kind of culminates the presentation today. And I wanted to make sure that I thank the residents of Monroe Park and Edgewater. Without them...
 It makes it very difficult for us to do a neighborhood plan. The more people that participate, the better it is. Mike Cohen is a great leader in the Monroe Park neighborhood and he was instrumental in helping generate the buzz and interest to get people to come to those meetings, a good cheerleader for the neighborhood. He used to call me a lot to get us to do this, so I hope we've achieved many of the things that he was hoping to see out of this.
 And I also want to thank some of my team are here too, Mike and Chris, who helped on this. This is, everybody works on these, all right? The entire planning staff.
 worked on this. All the strategic planners, the zoning team worked on the zoning map, and historic preservation worked on the historic. So everybody that I'm over, everybody touched this in some way. And so I'm really proud of that. And it's one of the first plans that I think everybody had a voice in. So I just want to thank my team for delivering what I think is the best one yet. But next time, River Park is up. So we're going to try to make one that's even better. Thank you.
 Thank you. At this time I'll turn to counsel, see if there are any questions for the petitioner. Seeing none, I'll turn to the public. What did you say, Julie? There's no one from the virtual audience that is expressing interest to ask any questions or speak on this bill. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition to Resolution 2353? There is no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in opposition of Resolution 2353. Thank you. At this time the public portion is now closed.
 I have. You were speaking in opposition? Did they miss it? Yeah, we think, I thought you said just the virtual, I don't know if you meant. Oh, no, I'm sorry if that was said. Come on public, if you want to speak in favor of resolution 2353, please state your name and address for the record.
 Hi, good evening. I'm here to represent the neighborhood association. Mike Coleman should be here in a few minutes, but he's working late tonight. My name is Eddie Ferrero. I live at 517 Carroll Street, a Victorian home built in 1864 by Colonel Lathrop for one of his daughters.
 I moved there about eight years ago and the neighborhood, as I'm sure you guys know, is besieged by a lot of challenges, notably crime, housing issues, violence, a lot of drug dealing, prostitution. We're working very diligently to combat these issues. So when we got the opportunity to work with Tim's team on a neighborhood revitalization plan, we had some challenges to overcome.
 There were a lot of folks there that had been there since the 1980s that were still salty about the mixed zoning approach to developing that neighborhood. More recently, some of the neighbors had issues because of our geographical proximity to intake centers. We just happened to be the recipients for a lot of the housing encampments. We take care of them. We hadn't felt seen by the city for a long time or heard.
 And so I have to take this moment to just you know thank Tim and his team and Chris for coming to our meetings for holding multiple opportunities for us to voice our dream and our vision for the neighborhood because we do believe that it's on the cusp of a cultural renaissance.
 We do have those issues I mentioned earlier, but we also have artists like Alex Allen that live in our neighborhood. We've got people that are holding house concerts and, you know, cultural events like Miles Robertson, the church is in our neighborhood. It's also a very diverse neighborhood, which is kind of rare for South Bend. So we felt that they listened to what our needs were. We wanted an opportunity for the economic,
 We wanted economic opportunities for the people that live there. We wanted to protect their home values. We wanted to do things to make the neighborhood safer, but we didn't want to sacrifice our ethos of affordable housing. To that end, the
 Historic National Register is going to be one quick deliverable we can offer the neighbors. Our mobile tool library is another one that we're working on right now, and working through Trade Works and other affordable housing developers to teach how to fix your own homes, and how to access the right materials, and how to work with the Historic Preservation Commission locally as well.
 So I want to just point that out to say that if you guys do approve this plan, it isn't just a dead end stop, you know, you guys have done your job. The neighborhood community is really working very diligently to then work within the bounds of this plan in order to make the neighborhood thrive. We do think that because it's one of the first neighborhoods you see driving up north from Indianapolis or any of those cities, it really is the face forward.
 neighborhood that they're gonna be confronted with when they come if you want to consider moving to South Bend what better neighborhood that's a ten-minute walk to the library to Howard Park to the farmers market to this building right now so I really feel that if you also want to build a synergy between a lot of that new development on the Howard Park end that bridge that I love that picture that Tim always shows with I think he's kayaking under the bridge and
 I really like that picture because it shows a vision. That's sort of what I see for that bluff. I think about St. Joseph and that bluff that they have. I think about the economic opportunities, the residential opportunities there for two-way traffic. Now you've got pedestrian flow going all the way, not just to our neighborhood, but all the way to the baseball stadium.
 That creates opportunities for our Airbnb neighbors that have those. And I also do think that once the clovers are gone and you develop that area going east, it could also have an effect on the Miami Street development.
 Our neighborhood has brought in experts for revitalization. We've talked to Sam Senteas at CDFI Friendly. We've talked to Ann Mannix. We've brought in Mike Keene. We're trying to do kitchen sink strategy to fix this neighborhood up. And I think the best way you guys can help us is by approving this plan. Thank you. Thank you so much for your comments. I really appreciate that. That's probably one of the best follow-up wrap-ups I've seen about a neighborhood plan.
 Sound like a city employee. That was really good. Your name and address for the record, please. I don't know how I follow that up, but I'm Charity Stowe. I'm a resident in Monroe Park, 614 South St. Joseph Street. And I've been in the neighborhood for the last few years. I'm a small developer and own multiple residential rentals as well as a couple of commercial buildings right there on South Michigan that I'm working to fix up.
 So I'm really just excited that the city has invested all this time and to talk with neighbors and bring everyone together so that the current residents voices are heard in a neighborhood plan that will benefit them down the road. And, you know, this focus on affordability and homeownership is important for the neighborhood so that.
 As developers come in and things become more expensive, we can kind of secure some of that housing for the folks who have been there for so long to benefit from all these improvements that are going to happen. So I just want to say thanks to the team in the city that did all this work as well as all the residents just coming together and talking about what we envision for the neighborhood. So thank you so much. Thank you so much.
 And I would just like to say that thank you Tim and the team city administration who Helped to push this plan forward Monmoe Park is but a few blocks over from the third district and definitely impact us and you guys have been doing a lot of heavy lifting over the years and
 with a lot of the homelessness and crime in the area and things like that. So it is exciting to see the city moving forward with development and revitalizing neighborhoods and what better neighborhood than Monroe, Edgewater to have, um,
 And it's time and and I'm excited because you guys have been putting a lot of work and your Association has been very strong and vocal over the past few years that I've been on council and pushing forward I'm excited to see that so thank you so much for coming in the city. Thank you council Are there any other comments councilwoman Tomas Morgan? Thank you president McBride. I just want to say I
 I really appreciate the detailed minutes that your neighborhood association puts out. I can't always attend all neighborhood meetings, but I pay close attention to the meeting minutes that come out of your neighborhood. And I know that residents of Monroe Park have been thinking about elements of this plan for quite some time.
 and have been in conversation with our Department of Community Investment and planning more recently. So really want to thank that the neighbors for that thinking and bringing it to our department heads and for Tim and his
 his team for receiving them and working so well with the residents. Congratulations to you. This is a really exciting plan. Let's get this done. Thank you, Councilman Lee. I'm not going to belabor the point, but you know what? This is the exciting part about being part of city government. Tim, thank you for the great job that you guys have been doing.
 Residents want to feel like they're not forgotten. Just looking at the visuals of what is the potential to be there, it's really exciting and it brings about hope and that's important. To the residents of the Monroe Park Neighborhood Association, I've come to a couple of the meetings and you guys are a very interesting group of people.
 This is what we need to continue. So I'm looking forward to the Far Northwest Neighborhood Plan. All right. Council, any other comments? With that being said, what's your pleasure? I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye.
 Council Member Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 2353 has been adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Now we're to bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 5023 a first reading. Thank you.
 50 23 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council the city of South Bend, Indiana Annexing and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana and amending the zoning ordinance for property located at
 23114 Lincoln Way West, Councilman in District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 50-2023 to ZNA for committee and council and public in third reading on October 23rd. So moved. Second. Been moving. Seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5323 a first reading?
 51-23. 51-23, I'm sorry. 51-23, first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new principal riverfront development project, the expanded west riverfront district.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5123 to Community Investment for Committee and Public Hearing in Third Reading on 9-11. So moved. Second. So moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5223 a first reading. 5223, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new principal riverfront development project that expanded East Riverfront District.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5223 to Community Investment for Committee and for Public Hearing and Third Reading on 9-11. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Thank you.
 Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. At this time, I will turn to council to see if there are any unfinished business. Vice President, you want to announce the next public personal finance budget here?
 Yes, thank you, President McBride. The next personnel and finance meeting for the city budget is going to be this Wednesday here in the council chambers. It's going to be venues, parks, and arts. It'll be starting at 530 until 730. So if you're available, please come. It's very important information about the city budget, and input is welcomed for the 2024 budget meetings.
 Thank you. And Council, I know a while ago the wish list was sent out to Council, and in a few weeks I will be presenting our budget. If there's anything that you would like to do, I'm doing this as a courtesy because everyone has submitted their wish list. However, if there's something that we may have forgotten or something that has changed, this is your opportunity. You probably have only a week to give me that information. Thank you.
 So if there's something that you would like to see in the council's budget, please get it to me. Anyone else? At this time, I will turn for new business. Thank you.
 One of the things that I probably would like to announce is that on this upcoming weekend, Tennessee State and Notre Dame will be playing one another. This will be the first time in history that a HBCU, historical back college, will be coming to South Bend to play. There are a lot of festivities that's going on and educational things that's happening with Notre Dame and the city of South Bend, and the council is doing a lot of work
 proud to be a sponsor as well as the city for the activities for next weekend also the following weekend would be the fusion fest which was formerly known as the ethnic festival that will be coming back to the city so hoping that everyone would come out and we have a lot of good things that's going on in the city
 uh... is there any other to have a list of the events for this week i do have a list i just got it today i will email it to uh... all of the council thank you for asking yes at this time i would turn it open into the purpose of the floor if anyone
 Individuals of the council, you must state your name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time for this portion shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on tonight's agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual doing the privileges of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact the member of the city administration for review and topics assigned.
 At this time, I will open it up to the privilege of the floor. Is there anyone here who would like to address the council? If so, come please up to the microphone and state your name and address for the record. Sarah Foster, 1138 College Street. Members of city council, for my three minutes, I would like you to hear some of the gunshots I have heard and experienced while living in Police Beat 19 over the past few weeks. I'm in Westfield, between Westfield College, 2001 College,
 Next seat is a male in camo pants and a white t-shirt with a gun. He's hostile and agitated. 1001 College. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. Council members, I spoke at the last meeting about the pandemic of crime plaguing South Bend. Thank you.
 I also spoke about the pandemic of underreported crime in police reports not being created by police officers who respond to 911 calls. For example, at the last meeting, I presented the year-to-date statistics showing 67 911 responses on the 1100 block of College Street, generating only six police reports. A report less than 8% of the time.
 I am currently waiting for the APRA request on a citywide 911 responses and reporting. We will see how good or bad reporting truly is. We will look at the real numbers everywhere. Council members, what you just heard was 85 gunshots. 85 gunshots. When was the last time you heard 85 gunshots? Council, those shots were heard over the last few weekends from our residents on College Street in Police Beat 19.
 If, and I say if, the police reported all 85 gunshots, they will be reported as five shots fired events. How misleading is that? One of those events had 38 rounds fired, and it will be counted in the monthly statistics as one shot fired event. Until we work towards counting every bullet fired in the city and stopping all the crime in the city, nothing will change. This is a manipulation of statistics. This is the definition of fake and misleading news.
 Why manipulate the stats this way? Does this help the police chief? Does this help the mayor's office? Does it help the council? It doesn't help me. It doesn't help the taxpayer. The council, the city's legislative branch, needs to let the executive branch know, the mayor's office, who is in charge and appoints the police chief, that this is not okay. When Ted Kennedy spoke of Bobby Kennedy, he described him as a man who saw a wrong and tried to right it.
 saw suffering and tried to heal it, saw war and tried to stop it. We all need to do our part to right wrongs, heal our communities, and stop the lawlessness of thousands of rounds of gunfire flying around our city. In closing, I emailed every member of council the morning after the last meeting, and I have yet to receive a response from any of you. I have yet to receive a response in writing for my email to Henry Davis Jr. on Monday, June 5th. It's August 28th.
 Somebody has to help. Somebody has to care. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in privilege of the floor. Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Foster. If you would mind standing after a few minutes to speak with me after the meeting today. Thank you. If there's nothing else, we stand adjourned. Good night.