Thank you. Good evening. I would like to call Monday, September 11th, 2023 Common Council meeting to order. Dr. Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council members and yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat and directions to do so are listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input,
 Please insert the following into the chat and you'll be called on during the relevant time for public input. Again, insert your name and your address and what you would like to speak on. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks.
 Also, if you would like to speak during privilege of the floor, again, submit your name and your address in the chat and the council president will call on you during that time. You will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Again, remember to unmute yourself before speaking. Thank you.
 Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome and call up Pastor Deborah Givens of New Horizons Ministries for the invocation. Thank you so much and welcome.
 and again deborah gibbons of new horizons outreach ministry and lord as we come before you the common council we pray that you would give us grace wisdom and understanding about how to continuously guide the affairs of south bend indiana and our community thank you lord for allowing god the common council god to hear the burdens and the cries
 of your people, bless their families, bless, Father, everything concerning them. And we thank you, Lord God, as you will navigate this meeting, that we thank you for just great wisdom to come out of this session. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Thank you. At this time, I would like to take a moment of silence for the victims and their families who lost their lives and loved ones.
 for the tragic day of 9 11. thank you may we stand for the pledge of allegiance thank you mark jones would you call the roll please yes um council member davis will be absent today council member lee president council member warner i'm here oh i'm sorry okay council member davis okay council member lee president council member warner president council member wax
 Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. I do know that Council Member Hammond will not be here this evening. Yes. Vice President Neskoski. Present. And President McBride. Present. We have eight present. Thank you. There are no reports from subcommittee on minutes, there's no special business, and there are no reports from the city. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion
 To resolve into the committee of the whole It's been moving in second and clerk Jones the role please Councilmember Davis. I'm sorry. Okay. How some emberly I Council member Warner. Hi council member wax Councilmember white I Council member Tomas Morgan. I vice president Neskoski. I president McBride. I eight eyes. I
 Committee of the Whole is now in session and this is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation of the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 48-23 a second reading?
 48.23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1044 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Council Member Hammond is not here, and Council Member Davis, I do not believe, was at the committee hearing. However, I was on the committee if you would like the report. Okay.
 That was heard in a ZNA committee today, and it was given an unfavorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. Okay. All right. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. My name is Tim Corcoran, Director of Planning and Acting Zoning Administrator. Hopefully, we're not acting for too long. Okay.
 Tonight, I have with me Skip. Yeah, Monty, Skip Morrell, zoning specialist. We do not see the petitioner in the audience tonight, and I'm not sure if the petitioner is online. Can you see if they're in? This is the third time that the petitioner has not shown up for this.
 the council meeting um and so I believe at the committee meeting it was determined based on that that uh that was the why they were recommending to move unfavorably with this petition we can give you the presentation if you like um but with the petition or not here I'm not sure what your
 i was on that meeting online and i i heard the discussion of this has been the third time that it's been offered for the petitioner to come and they have not shown i know that if the if the committee doesn't make a decision then it could be it could it could pass or we could make the decision that they'll have to reapply is that correct
 Basically, if we let this ride out past 60 days, then it is approved per state law. So the options that you have, we could table it again tonight, and it would be heard at the September 25th meeting, and that would still be within the 60-day period of time.
 Obviously, you could choose to deny the petitioner's request tonight or approve. If the petition is denied, the petitioner has the right to reapply, but they do have to go back through the entire process of going through the Board of Zoning Appeals. It probably would take about, even in an expedited way, about two months for them to do that.
 The property is currently out of conformance, and so it would start potentially this Friday start getting zoning violations. So all right, council members, you have anything to say or. Yes, I don't speak for myself. I don't need to hear the presentation, but I would be interested if there is anybody from the public before we make any decision on it. But it is open to hear what everyone else has to say on it.
 Well, as I stated in the committee this afternoon, this has been tabled not one, not two. I mean, this is the third time. So if this property, if the owner was so concerned to have this done and zoned properly, rather than just let it be rezoned by default, hoping to write out the 60 days. Otherwise, if this was such a priority, he should have been here the first time or she should.
 And has not. We tabled it, moved it a second time. No show. Now we're on the third time. So to me, any anybody that ever comes before us for a zoning need or whatever need that they're requesting action for us to take, they're here the very first time unless there's some tragic situation which has happened. And we've let that continue to the next meeting.
 So I voted to not give this a favorable recommendation based on a waste of taxpayer time, the council time. And he still has another opportunity or she, if it's a co-owned or singly owned, that they can come back and re-petition and get whatever they don't have together together and bring it back before the council. But I feel it's a waste of our time to keep hearing this over and over for somebody that's not showing.
 mr warner yeah i'm not on the committee i'm going to assume there's not been any communication no we've reached out uh before each of the last two council meetings and again today um and with no response okay i make a motion to reject and send forward or to send forward unfavorable mr palmer is that oh uh all right
 I believe that if you're going to send it forward with any recommendation whatsoever, you still need to have a public hearing. Thank you. Yes, Councilman Davis. Thank you, sir. This is just a question for a procedure, and I've never asked this question before. Is it a requirement that the petitioner show up?
 Don't believe it's a requirement. It's just been standard council practice for many years, is my understanding. This has just been practice. Can you repeat that? It's just been practice that people show up. Correct.
 So it's not a requirement. So if they don't show up, we can't hold them to something that they didn't do. I'm not saying that we should or shouldn't. I've never asked this question because I've never been in this situation to my missing three times in a row. But if they're missing and you don't have to be here, then how can we require them to be somewhere and use that as a measurement for success? If they don't show up, if they don't have to show up.
 I mean, you have to make a decision based upon what you guys recommendation is. And so regardless, they should or not. It doesn't necessarily change your recommendation. President Bright, you had. Yes, thank you. I just had some questions for the petitioner for the past several times and especially about the number of police calls and other calls that has been at that.
 uh residents so there were some things that I would have liked to had an opportunity to ask uh the petitioner so I think when it comes to questions that you have of the petitioner and they're not showing up that's what makes my um decision uh is different or based on that as well so it's a standard procedure but it could be that we could pass it also but when there are some
 some concerns that I have that's what I have an issue with yeah I think given that this is a special exception for a group home it's kind of hard to make a decision without the operator of that group home present but group residents but group I'm sorry is it fine distinction thank you for the correction I appreciate that is there anyone to hear from the public uh wish to speak in favor of bill 48-23 Clark Jones
 I'm looking. I don't see anyone in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. And is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition for Bill 48-23? Would you state your name and address, please, for the record? Logan Foster, 1138 College Street.
 i i would agree with the consensus that if the petitioner did not show up and it's after after three attempts then he's not serious enough to be here and he's wasting everybody's time because if we should come here to talk to you guys and to ask to change whether it's zoning ordinances any kind of city law or you know anything of that matter that we should be here and we should be our bet we ourselves are our best advocates
 you know we get other people involved to advocate for us to help us but we also should be here to advocate for ourselves so if we're not here then we're not serious well thank you very much appreciate that oh at this time the public uh portion is is now closed um i will now take a recommendation sorry i just have a question i feel flip my hand uh in regards to um
 this particular person, he or she, they were aware that they were out of compliance because they did not have a permit to move forward. Is that correct? Yeah. So it's my understanding that this came to us via code enforcement. There was an RSVP request for that property. They they
 complied with the things that RSVP and code had asked them to do, or at least, at least that's our understanding. But it was at that point that we understood it to be a group residence. And that's why it had to go through the special exception process in order to legalize it as a group residence. Thank you.
 And just for those who don't know, this was a property that was owned by Madison Center. The owner bought it and Madison Center was able to operate it as a group residency. Group home. A group home. Yeah. And they're operating it as a group residency, which means that people occupy one bedroom and stay there. That's right. That's a shared kitchen and each room is individually rented. Yeah.
 Well, we have done our part as a council to reach out to them and to have them be present. This is in my district, too. But again, three times we've requested and the council members feel like we moved it and moved it. So it's time to make a move. And if they're serious about making this a group residence, then...
 they can reapply and how long does that process normally take? Well, so what will have to happen is at the next, if they contact us, at the next BZA meeting we can schedule it sort of in an expedited format, but it has to be re-advertised and so it'll probably, I think a minimum time of 60 days for it to be re-advertised and then heard again.
 And then it would come back to you depending on, well, it would come back to you at that point. Council members, I will entertain a motion. Chair. Oh, sorry. Councilman Davis has his hand up. Yes, I'm sorry. I did not see that. Councilman Davis.
 Oh, I'm fine with what's been said. And I'm in agreement with the group. I just wanted to make sure that I was suggesting that because the rules were written that way, that we behave any way differently. I was just asking a question about the rules and that the rules suggested or stated that the person is not there. We automatically rejected or declined the offer. Obviously, that's not the rules.
 but i i wanted to make that clear i was just asking about the rules what's written but i will be uh the way the council representative has state stated that he's going to vote yeah okay all right i will entertain a motion recommendation from parliamentarian no recommendation my recommendation is if you want to
 The council wants to deny it. I would say unfavorable recommendation. Okay. So I will make that motion for unfavorable recommendation to move to the full council. I second. All right. There's been a motion and second clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member wax. Aye. Council member white. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice president Naskowski. Aye. Council member Davis. Aye.
 President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. So, Bill 48-23 will go to the full council with the unfavorable recommendation. Clark Jones, would you please give Bill 51-20 a substitute bill? Sorry, I didn't say that on my- You got to accept this. I'll make the motion to hear if this is the substitute. All right, there's been a motion and a second. Clark Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right, we now accept the Substitute Bill 51-23. Clerk Jones, will you please give it a second reading?
 51-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new municipal riverfront development project, the Expanded West Riverfront District. I would like, okay, go ahead then. Bill 51-23 and Bill 52-23 together. For purpose of the public hearing. For purpose of the public hearing.
 is there a second i'll second all right there's been a motion in a second clerk jones please call the role council member white aye council member thomas morgan aye vice president niskowski aye council member davis aye council member lee aye council member warner council member wax aye president mcbride aye eight eyes all right we will hear both of these for uh same time uh so
 sure she has to read this second one all right and and now we will have uh clerk Jones read uh bill 52-23 52-23 public hearing on an ordinance of the common Council the city of South Bend Indiana authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new municipal Riverfront development project the expanded East Riverfront District all right is there a committee report
 yes there is um this came both bills came to community investment this afternoon and they both come to the full council with a favorable recommendation commissioner is present i ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us
 Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment offices on the 14th floor of this building. Before you for your consideration are two proposed ordinances that would expand the existing riverfront development project area.
 The state of Indiana allows municipalities to establish these areas with the purpose of providing incentives to small businesses by providing a discounted rate on three-way liquor licenses.
 The City of South Bend has had a developed riverfront development project area since 2012. Before you is the history of that area. Beginning in 2012, they established the area and there were two subsequent amendments to the boundaries deciding the riverfront development project area. Those amendments were
 were basically to incorporate properties and parcels that would qualify into the project area. One thing to note that in order for a property or business to receive
 discounted riverfront liquor license, they must go through a series of qualifications, including in those our zoning requirements. So we bring before you now a proposal to expand the riverfront district
 project area from 1500 feet to 3000 feet from the boundaries of the Saint Joseph River. Since 2012, there are roughly 32 riverfront liquor licenses that have been issued and in active use. On your screen or on the screen are just a few of the businesses that we know in the downtown area that have taken advantage of this incentive. For
 Through this incentive, you know, it's a dramatic discount for this riverfront liquor license. In this area, the going rate for your typical three-way liquor license is roughly $60,000. Under this program, a small business who meets the qualifications would be able to purchase a three-way liquor license for roughly $1,000 a year. It's renewed annually.
 and provides an incredible incentive for these businesses to be able to invest in our communities. This is on your map, or excuse me, on the screen, you'll see the map of what would be the east expansion. So the areas in green
 within this within these boundaries would be incorporated into the expanded area the existing boundaries the 1500 foot line is the dotted line the proposal before you would expand it out to 3 000 feet which would be the blue line here i'll zoom in and give you a closer view of some of the areas that we're really excited about to be able to expand the district into on the east
 Riverfront District, we'd be looking at incorporating almost all of Mishawaka Avenue. As you can see on the dotted line, much of Mishawaka Avenue business, many of Mishawaka Avenue businesses are excluded from having access to this discounted three-way liquor license. With the expansion out to the blue line, you can see that the entirety of Mishawaka Avenue would be incorporated. Shifting north a little bit, you know,
 as we look at where eddy street commons is in the upper right areas that have seen recent investment to the west of eddy street commons would be incorporated into this district we think this would be a great incentive to further enhance the development that we're seeing there um and
 As you can see, the blue line cuts right along Eddy Street, south of Campo. So, you know, those businesses there would have access to the discounted liquor license as well. Shifting to the west side of the district, west side of the river, again, there's the map showing
 the expansion from 1500 feet to 3000 feet. On the west side of the river, we're gonna be able to incorporate some of the businesses and some of the areas on some of our main corridors, such as Michigan Street, Main Street, Lafayette and Sample. Very exciting for the businesses that are in these areas. I know that a few of them are here to speak in support of this ordinance.
 Looking on the north side, near northwest side, the expansion from the dotted line out to the blue line will incorporate two areas in particular that I would like to highlight, one being businesses along Lincoln Way West.
 east of where Walnut ends at Lincoln Way. So you can see there the blue line where it crosses the word Lincoln Way, all the businesses east of there would be incorporated into this district. So a small business owner looking to open an establishment or acquire a three-way liquor license on Lincoln Way West would now have access to $1,000 annual three-way liquor
 three-way liquor license where previously prior to this expansion they would not have access to that shifting to the north along portage the orangish tan area that is the jury site that's where the former martins used to be located the current district kind of crosses the intersection at elwood and portage by expanding it out we're now incorporating you know the future
 you know, a future development at the Drury's property. We're also incorporating
 properties on Portage Avenue north of that intersection. As council may recall a few weeks ago, we finalized a tax abatement for development that is right on the corner of Portage and Elwood. That's just a sign that there is investment going on there. And we feel strongly that, you know, by providing access to small business owners who are willing to invest in these areas, that the $1,000 liquor license would be a great incentive for them
 I know that this concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. I also do know, I know also that there's plenty of members from the public that wanted to speak in support of this as well.
 Council members, do you want to... We talked a lot about this in committee, so we can go. Anyone like to make any questions? Yeah, if I could be just... I know I asked this before, but if you could just repeat the question for the public before. If there is a business that is...
 seeming to be a detriment to the public what would the recourse would be how would that work out there are guidelines and qualifications the permits are reviewed annually businesses that wouldn't meet the qualifications which would include being a nuisance property in the community those would be evaluated and considered during the review process the annual review so they would likely not receive the renewal
 Correct. Thank you. Also, one thing to point out from committee meeting that I probably should have mentioned, the question came up during committee, whether what happens when a business who would be in the new expanded area already has a three-way liquor license that they may have purchased on the open market. The way the law that is set up is in order for them to take advantage of a discounted three-way liquor license, they would have to relinquish their current license.
 license and have to there would be a period a waiting period of about a year before they could apply for the discounted license in addition if a business already has a two-way license a two-way means beer and wine and would like to upgrade to a three-way license they can do that without having to wait all right well as
 does anyone hear from the public uh which and speak in favor of bill substitute bill 51-20 51 23 and 52-23 councilman davis has his hand up oh okay i'm sorry okay there is a question um when i um
 envision this back in 2012, got it passed through. The idea was to create an environment downtown that was going to be competitive, especially with Edge Street Commons, given that was like three miles away. And you're talking about development in three mile radius. You know, you don't have so much money in there. I'm happy that this is growing and is being expanded to other areas to help create the synergy.
 that is needed for this type of like advantage. I don't believe and think that from one moment that this will be like a silver bullet, no pun intended that will just like make South Bend the best city in the state of Indiana. However, I think that it's an incentive and it helps business owners who have an idea of what they may want to do with the property. And sometimes adding this there will help
 My question to the presenter, and this is for later on, this is not for right now, and I hope that you can get this to us. The progression of the number of liquor licenses that have been used through the riverfront development up to current day, the other ones that have been lost since then.
 I just would like to see how this trend is happening, because it also works in concert with the market and where the market is forcing the dollars for us to grow. So it's just a question for later on. How could we look at the visuals from day one in 2012 to 2023? I'd be happy to answer. I'm just to provide a little bit more color to you.
 the businesses that have acquired the discounted liquor licenses. Just by our review, one, two, three, we had six,
 businesses that had received the liquor license that are no longer using them. And two of those locations, they've been replaced by businesses that are using, that went ahead on their own to receive the discounted license. And another business had moved within the downtown area, but had left the district, the Riverfront District, and then had to go ahead and get a market rate
 three-way license so really when it comes down to it there's only and you know three businesses that had received these licenses at least to our knowledge over the last decade um that currently aren't really active at this point okay great great is there anyone it's a net gain it's a net gain of three and i thank you for answering that question so are there any um other
 I guess, devices or tools that we're using to help support businesses to get them to stay. If we're only netting three businesses since 2012 to 2023, that's not a good number. And so what else are we missing to help retain these businesses where they're at? Because obviously a three-way liquor license is not enough. It's just an idea. It's just a thought for right now. You don't have to answer that, sir. But I think that that needs to be discussed.
 appreciate those comments thank you all right thank you uh councilman davis and we certainly thank thank you for your vision in the past um okay i thought you wanted to say something those that are in um in support if you clerk jones are there any online or in in the auditorium today
 And we have a great line of people. Please state your name and your address for the record. Just to clarify, Councilman Davis, there were 32 issued since 2012. I'm not sure where you got three from. I say a net of three. I was listening to the presenter. It's not my math. It's his math. A net of three, sir. All right. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Frankie Macias from Frankie's Tacos. Yes, 2720 Michelle Walk Avenue. I'm sorry. I did not mean to say that. Yeah.
 So, I got a little experience with Riverfront. I also have a location in Mishawaka, which I benefit from their liquor license, their river license. There's a lot of rules we follow in Mishawaka to have the license, especially like no smoking. We cannot close after 2 a.m.
 and we cannot have any DUIs, the person that would receive the license, otherwise we would lose our license. So there's a lot of things we had to follow to be able to receive a license in Mishawaka, which we're happy with it because we rebuy one of the oldest bars in Mishawaka. It used to be called Ramones Cafe, Press Box, and now it's called Traxai.
 So it's kind of nice to see those bars, their history. There's generations that went through reviving. Going back to Frankie's Tacos,
 We really need to compete with bigger businesses. We're a small business on Mishawaka Avenue, River Park. River Park is coming back alive, but we need to be able to attract more people. So in order to attract more people, we need to offer what other bigger chains restaurants are offering, mojitos, margaritas. Things are, you know, refreshment and people look for to have a nice weekend and, you know, socialize with friends and family.
 so in that case you know there's not many licenses left that's why small businesses we struggle we have a two-way but beer and wine is not one thing is you know you always have somebody they need some margarita and we are not able to do it we try to make it with wine and it doesn't taste good so we lose money of the frankie's tacos that we're expecting to invest a quarter million dollars this coming year on
 making a bigger kitchen and a bigger patio in the front. We bought in property next door, so we're going to be working on all these investments. So we really need a three-way license to be able to compete and to become better on what we do and revive Mishawaka Avenue, you know, River Park, the historic neighborhood. That's it for me. Any questions? Oh, I'm sorry. Okay.
 I know. All right. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Hi, I'm Amy McFarland, Rose Lily, South Bend corner of Bronson and Maine. I spoke to the committee earlier, so I won't go through my whole spiel. I'll just say we do have plans for expansion to the upstairs. It'll also require a sizable investment. It'll also pretty much double our workforce.
 We have a beer and wine right now, two-way, but it definitely feels like a handicap when competing with some of the other bigger restaurants. Beer and wine is great to have, but it only goes so far. Some people just prefer a cocktail before their dinner. If any of you have been to my restaurant, it's a nice restaurant, respectable. We're not a late-night bar or anything. We literally want just the spirits to complement the food, and that's pretty much where I'm coming from. So thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Yes, sir. Name and address, please. Sure. It's Mike LaCaruba, 19494 Kern Road. I have All Street Kitchen across the street at 131 Lafayette Boulevard. Well, when you looked at the presentation, you didn't see McDonald's or any of the big box stores that you saw mom and pop stores.
 And that's where we are. We took Tom's, you know, that was a beautiful place for 40 years. And then, you know, was shut down and sat empty for seven years. You know, I came here in 2018 and made a small investment, $150,000 to bring the store back out and bring it up to date to, you know, new codes. I was under the impression I was in the 1500 foot area.
 riverfront license before I signed my lease. Of course, after I signed my lease, I realized I was 200 feet short. So we hung on and we're still there, but it's money coming out of my pocket every month to keep the ball rolling. Having another revenue stream is not just important, it's absolutely necessary.
 You know, I'm taking social security now and putting it back into the store. Okay. Because post COVID, you know, things are more expensive. You know, we were paying $70 a case for eggs, you know, that you're selling for $8. It's hard to do. And payroll went from $12 to $15 an hour to $19 an hour. Okay. For a small business. That's why there's just me and one other guy. So it's.
 It's a lifeline to be, you know, part of that 3,000 feet. And the reason you don't see a lot of businesses is because that west side was blocked by the city council building and the courthouses. You know, if we were able to erase those, you know, that footage.
 we would have been able to open up something like at the gates property you know and maybe do a food truck corral or something you know interesting because in order to develop your city back to where it was you have to have things to come down and do so you have the morris which is terrific you have a lot of these outdoor concerts these people come down they want to be able to have a drink they want to get something to eat it's just like
 you know, where most people live. They have some place, their favorite place to go. And I appreciate that, you know, you know, there's, I'm sure somebody must not want it, but I'm hoping that, you know, the council sees the importance of it to small people like us that really need it. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir.
 Yes, ma'am. Your name and address, please. Good evening. Willow Weatherall, Executive Director for Downtown South Bend, located at 2017 South Michigan Street. We're here to add our support for the proposed expansion of the Riverfront Liquor License Program. DTSB has been the administrator for 10 years. We consider the program a great success. Previous speakers have mentioned the 32 businesses that have been,
 secured one of these licenses with, you know, and I don't want to be quoted on the numbers, but just my quick count in terms of the number of establishments downtown that hold a traditional market rate license compared to the riverfront liquor license is about a one to five. So you can see it's a very, it's a really popular option. It really has helped reduce the barriers for small businesses to enter the market.
 One of the things that is of core importance to downtown South Bend, of course, is supporting independently owned restaurants, really creating a unique dining destination that's built around that unique identity. And as some other folks have mentioned, in terms of reducing the.
 barriers to entry, it allows downtown these smaller businesses to compete against the larger chains that have much larger budgets that can support paying the full market rate for their licenses. They have much larger marketing budgets.
 So working with DTSB and our Downtown Dining Alliance and incentives like these, there are many things that we can do that really do help smaller independently owned businesses, the type of businesses that keep dollars local, that create new jobs, and also really contribute to the character of our downtown.
 The other thing that I wanted to mention is that downtown South Bend, like our vision for our downtown is that it is a vital, vibrant and irreplaceable city, Midwest city center that's both a beacon and a boon to all of South Bend and the surrounding region.
 And we're pleased to, DTSB is pleased to support the expansion. We see it as highly beneficial for economic development in our corridors. And we know that strong neighborhoods and strong downtowns go together. We wanna make sure that as we continue to work with the city and administering the program, that it's as simple as possible for any business owner that is located in the new expansion, that the process is the same, whether you're downtown or in one of the expanded areas,
 So the committee that oversees and that reviews and approves the license, it's all the same. So we see there's some efficiency here. We're glad to continue to be the administrator of the program and are happy to see the expansion. Thank you. Clark Jones, is there anyone that would like to speak? Oh, I'm sorry. I'll wind it up.
 Henry, are you still on here? Name and address, please, sir. Okay. Mark McDonald, 115 West Colfax. Yes, I'm still here, Mark. All right, good. If you'll remember back some years ago, I brought this idea that I got at an Indiana Restaurant Association meeting. Came out of Lafayette originally, a riverfront license. Yes.
 And I'm happy that Henry ran with it. And I think he sponsored that bill back in 2000, or one of the sponsors of the bill back in 2012. And I'm happy to say since then, there has been a lot of growth in DTSB. I also chair the board of Downtown South Bend Incorporated, and we firmly stand behind the passage of this bill.
 to increase the synergies that are there just outside the boundaries of where they currently lie. We're not looking for more student bars necessarily. In fact, those are not something that are in the guidelines. We're looking for quality food and beverage establishments that can continue to grow. And there are some already that are on the books that are ready to grow more
 just outside the boundaries of what we consider DTSB. So thank you, Councilman Davis, for getting this thing established. And now, hopefully, the rest of the council will vote in favor of it. Thank you. All right. Clerk Jones, do we have someone online? Yes, we have Jordan Smith. Jordan, if you would unmute yourself and state your name and the address for the record, please. Hi, Jordan Smith. Hi.
 635 South Lafayette Boulevard. I'm wondering, I've seen some news outlets reporting that it's 2,000 a year, half of which goes to downtown South Bend, half to the state. I'm wondering, and I'm hearing Eric say it's 1,000 a year. I'm just hoping for clarification. All right. Would anyone want to answer that question?
 Thanks for the question. That is, it is the case that there is an additional $1,000 administrative fee that goes to downtown South Bend. That was part of the original ordinance. It's, there's not much change. We just tightened up the language just a little bit in the past.
 An establishment could either do a community partnership with Downtown South Bend, which would be the $1,000, or to the Downtown Dining Alliance. And we just clarified the language that Downtown South Bend is the administrator. A lot of work goes into working with the businesses. There's a lot of...
 There's a lot of details that go into making sure that the space meets the standards for the ATC. A lot of these businesses are unfamiliar with all of the different rules that come into play. And so this allows us, again, to be an active partner with businesses in marketing and other efforts to support their success and just allows for the smooth functioning of the program. So the cost of the license is $2,000 or $1,000?
 So it would be $1,000 that goes to the state and $1,000 that remains locally with DTSB annually. And if somebody was to get the market rate license, it would be upfront cost of $60,000 with a renewal of $1,000 annually.
 We did some research, too, just looking at that as we were clarifying and kind of tightening up language around the expansion of the district. Many cities are charging $2,500 annually. We felt like we were in a good place. And it really wasn't much of a change from the way it was in the past, except businesses had a choice to send their money either to Downtown Dining Alliance or the DDA.
 excuse me downtown dining alliance or dtsb and now it's just to dtsb so that's the major change thanks for the question okay
 is there anyone else i just want to make a comment that i apologize i did not mean to mischaracterize um the program the thousand dollars was the renewal of the actual license itself and as willow had stated dtsb is our partner with the city in terms of administering the program so there is the fee that would go to the administration all right um anyone else clark jones online that exhausts
 Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition of this bill? Pete, that's Ms. Galsky. He has his hand up. Okay. Yes. Board, thank you. Scott Galsky, 701 West Sample Street, South Bend, Indiana. I'm not speaking in opposition nor in favor. Obviously, I have to remain neutral based on my position, and I'm also on the DTSB board of directors.
 I just think the public, I know, and I'm sure the council does, and probably most members there know what the rules and the parameters are when it comes to this license. But I think, I know from the police perspective and community perspective, we need to know exactly what those parameters are, what those rules are, who's going to be enforcing the rules, and who's going to be doing spot checks and things of that nature to make sure those rules are being complied with.
 I can tell you that not all of them have done that up to this point. Most of them have. And then if we go to continue to add more, which we absolutely would love to have, but I can tell you right now that I signed many, many just beer and wine permits for events that may be happening every other weekend or once a month or sometimes every weekend. And we typically have problems with those locations. So we need some assurances before...
 we do those, have those questions answered before we start doing this, that we do have those assurances publicly. Yes, sir. So, Chief and Committee, there was some discussion of tightening up the guidelines and clarifying the guidelines, and I would ask to also loop you into those discussions, and I'm getting some nods back there from DTSB folks.
 oh yes willow and i have had those conversations uh mr warner that very much appreciated we do have two community resource officers that are new to assist jarvee are born on top of that so those will be our point persons um and we'll help out in any way that we can we want to avoid something before we want to fix a leak before it becomes a flood absolutely thank you chief eric did you have anything you want to add
 Council Member Warner basically had stated what I was going to mention, which was we had worked closely with DTSB in terms of updating the guidelines, tightening up the language, providing clarity for what the qualifications are. One thing that I pointed out in committee that I didn't necessarily point out in this formal presentation was that, um, we're
 Part of the requirements is that the establishment be dining
 for a cultural or art venue. Those are two requirements and the guidelines will help clarify, you know, how those will be evaluated. So, all right. Well, thank you very much. If that's being all, we will now close the public hearing portion of this.
 And council members, if you would like to make any statements or anything, we can make them at this time, or I will entertain a motion. And we have to vote for them individually, correct? Correct. Motion to send substitute bill 5123 forward with favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 5123 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 I'll make a motion to send Bill 5223 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watt. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Alright. Bill 52-23 will be sent to the full council with the favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion to resolve from the Committee of the Whole and to go back into the
 full council so moved second all right there's been a a motion in the second clerk jones please call the role vice president niskoski aye council member davis aye council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax aye council member white hi council member tomas morgan hi president mcbride hi eight eyes all right thank you the full council is back in session
 and we're going to bills on third reading this portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole clerk jones will you give bill 4823 a third reading
 48.23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for a property located at 1044 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you.
 Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 4823? Yes. 48-23, due to the fact of the petitioner not showing up three times, it is sent to the full counsel with an unfavorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4823. Move to reject Bill 4823. I second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, to roll, please.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 4823 has passed with a rejection. It has been rejected. Yes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Substitute Bill 5123 a third reading?
 51-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new municipal riverfront development project, the expanded West Riverfront District. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 51-23? Yes, Substitute Bill 51-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute Bill 5123. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Nisgastie. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 5123 has been adopted.
 Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 5223 a third reading? 5223, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing and establishing the boundaries of a new municipal riverfront development project, the expanded East Riverfront District.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5223? Yes, 5223 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5223. I move for passage. I move and second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Thank you.
 aye council member warner hi council member wax hi council member white aye council member tomas morgan aye vice president niskatsky aye council member davis president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you bill 5223 has been adopted
 resolutions this portion of the council meeting where Common Council his bills founded proposed resolutions the title of his proposed resolution is read by the clerk a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given during the public portion on each proposed resolution members of the
 I'm invited to address the Council. We ask that you please give your name, address, and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2355 a reading?
 2355, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1302 West Sample Street, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Imagineering Enterprises. Thank you. Presenter, please state your name and address for the record.
 Good evening. My name is Mark Beamenderfer, Manager of Business Development with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Thank you. And I will ask from the committee, was there a recommendation? Yes, President McBride, this came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Presenter. So for your consideration today is Bill 23-55, which is a designating resolution for a five-year personal property tax abatement.
 for equipment to be installed at 1302 West Sample. This equipment is being purchased by Imagineering Enterprises, which is installing a new electrolysis nickel line at their Sample Street business location. For a little additional context about this company, Imagineering has been operating in South Bend since 1959. Currently, they have three different locations, two of which are in South Bend and one in Indianapolis.
 The company provides metal finishing services for a variety of different industries, including aerospace, automotive, military, and quite a few others.
 Now, with the abatement, Imagineering intends to purchase roughly 2.6 million in new equipment to create their new line. This new line will require 10 additional full-time employees that will be brought in, well, two of which annually over the next five years, which is an increase above their current employee headcount.
 And these new employees are expected to add a little under 430,000 in additional payroll. Once operational, this new line is projected to increase revenues by 25 to 30% for that line. The...
 current personal property taxes on the property a little over thirteen thousand dollars with this capital investment of 2.6 million the annual taxes will increase an additional estimated 173 000 of this amount 127 000 will be abated and a little under 46 000 will be incurred after the abatement period ends roughly an additional 30 000 will be paid assuming consistent factors
 So, this slide breaks down the aforementioned amounts into the estimated annual taxes over the next 10 years, while breaking out the initial five, specifically covered by the abatement. As mentioned, it assumes consistent tax rates and bases the estimates for the equipment on asset pool number two, which uses a depreciation schedule of five to eight years. I understand that this equipment specifically will use a seven-year schedule.
 So that's really the high level details pertaining to this project and their respective abatement petition. Happy to answer any questions. And Imaginarians Controller Lauren Avey is also here to answer the questions. Thank you. At this time, I'll turn to counsel to see if you have any questions of the petitioner. Seeing none, I'll open it up to the public. Is there anyone in the public audience wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2355?
 There's no one from the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this resolution. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2355? There's no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. At this time, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel if you have any additional comments or any comments. Councilman Wax.
 thank you um i'll be brief but just to follow up my comments from committee meeting earlier there i expressed um the one of the aspects of this is that there isn't going to be a long-term uh tax-based growth uh significant enough to justify this abatement however in conversations and committee and afterwards um
 it was pointed out to me and I had time to consider the fact that in addition to the tax growth aspect there is the additional aspect of the 10 new full-time employees which that itself in addition to those jobs those create a continuing economic benefit and I do agree after consideration that that is a justifiable reason to support this so I will be supporting this abatement
 i'll second your motion actually have a another commitment or comment or yes uh councilman skutzky did you um no just that i um the the 10 jobs that councilman wax is talking about is that i believe it was 427 000 um of of of new job creations for you know people in our community and that's quite a bit um so i kind of echo your sentiment um on that front
 Thank you. And my comment is along similar lines. In approving a previous personal
 property tax abatement. Councilman Wex and I had a conversation afterwards that this is something that merits more conversation, and I'm open to that conversation with the department and among committee members. I think it is key, the additional FTEs, and that is a critical factor in this abatement. Thank you.
 Thank you. At this time now, I'll entertain a motion. I said I'd support it, so I might as well make the motion. I move for passage or adoption of Bill 2355. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Vice President Naskowski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye.
 councilmember lee aye president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you resolution 2355 has been adopted bills on first reading clerk jones will you please give bill 5323 a first reading
 53-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1132 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5322 to BZA for public hearing on October 2nd and to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on October 9th. So moved. Second. We're moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Motion's carried. Could you please give a first reading for Bill 5423?
 54.23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1128 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 54.23 to BZA for public hearing on 10.2 and to Zoning and Analyzation for public hearing and third reading on 10.9. So moved.
 Second. We're moving in second at the roll, please. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 5523 has been adopted, has been moved for motion for passage.
 Could you please give Bill 5623 a first reading? 5623, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting and approving the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation's 2024 budget and levying the tax and fixing the rate of the taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to fund the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation, South Bend, Indiana, for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024.
 Thank you. Motion to send Bill 5623 to Person on Finance Committee and Council public hearing only on September 25th and for third reading only on 10-9. So moved. Second. We're moving second in the roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Could you please give Bill 5723 a first reading?
 5723 first reading on an ordinance of the common council the city of south bend indiana levying taxes and fixing the rate of taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the civil city of south bend for the fiscal year ending december 31st 2024 and appropriating monies for the purpose of
 defraying the expenses of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2024 and ending December 31, 2024, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing a time when the same shall take effect.
 Thank you. I would like to send Bill 5723 to Person on Finance Committee and Council public hearing only on September 25th and for third reading only on October 9th. So moved. Second. The roll, please. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Could you give Bill 5823 a first reading? 5823. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2023.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5823 to personnel and finance for public hearing and third reading on 925. So, second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you.
 Will you please give Bill 5923 a first reading? 5923, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2023 of $1,740,000 from the general fund number 101, $356,000.
 $1,800 from the Parks and Recreation Fund, number 201. $104,999 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, number 202. $1,200,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222. $160,200 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601.
 $42,688 from the Water Works Capital Fund, number 622. $200,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund, number 640. $3 million from the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642. And $293,000 from the Storm Sewer Fund, number 667. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5923 to personnel and finance for public hearing and third reading on September 25th.
 Second. The roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 6023 a first reading? 6023, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2022.
 23 to establish one new full-time position thank you I would like to entertain a motion to send bill 6023 to personnel finance for public hearing and third reading on September 25th been moving in second in the role please Council member Warner all right Council member wax all right Council member white I Council member Thomas Morgan I Vice President niskowski I Council member Davis
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 6123 a first reading? 6123, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 6, Article 13, Sections 6 through 71 through 6 through 78, addressing responsible bidding practices and submission requirements on public works projects.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 6123 to Community Investment for Public Hearing and Third Reading on September 25th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Thank you. At this time, I will start with the unfinished business. Again, I would like to petition you to send me the names of your appointments for the CRB positions. Please submit your names.
 so we can move forward with that ordinance to bring before council i would hope to get those names to have it um if it's not ready by the next meeting by the it will be ready for the last meeting of this month so please please get that information to me for your appointment recommendation for the crb position
 Also coming up for the next meeting, there will be coming before you the names of the Repertory Commission as well. So that will be coming to move forward.
 Is there any other unfinished business? Council Vice President Nieskoski. Thank you, President McBride. Just to remind everybody that the next budget meeting is September the 13th, which is this Wednesday at 530. We'll be hearing from Community Investment, and that's slotted between 530 to 730.
 And for the public, they still have or accepting the build the budget surveys. So if you would like to go to the city website at build the budget, you can get on there and take a survey. They also you can call 311 and participate in that manner as well. Or you can also come to the meetings, budget meetings that we have.
 So thank you, President McBride. Thank you. Anyone else? Vice President Gonsalves, that meeting is here in the chamber. Yes, that's here in the chambers. Thank you. Absolutely. I have a question for you, President McBride. Last week, I filed a resolution as a race to reparations bill or resolution that I put forth some time ago. That particular bill was supposed to have been moved to the 25th of this month.
 um it's a resolution it's not necessarily a bill that will um well yeah it's a it's a bill uh what happened to it where is it at now there was a discussion about that because it showed that it was an amendment and being that if it's an amendment it would have to be uh brought out of the committee so i had discussion with the uh
 our attorney and also with the clerk's office and being that it was sent out as an amendment that was the reason why I wanted to have a discussion with you also and had hoped to do that tonight to make sure that we moved it forward going forward the right way so I can talk to you or Bob after this to make sure that we get it together because of the wording.
 Wordy. Okay, well, you say you want to discuss it offline. Well, we can talk about it, but you can either talk to Bob, but that was the reason. I wasn't on the original email. I think that you sent it to the committee, and then when it came to the agenda meeting and I was there, it said that it was an amendment and also on the cover letter, so it changed the way that it was filed.
 That's fine. But the question is, how do we communicate from this point on? Are you going to call me? Do you want me to call you? Absolutely. I can call you to move forward after tonight, if you would like. Well, you can call me after the meeting is over. Absolutely. Yes. Thank you. I will. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Yes, this is time. First of all, we had the HBCU exchange and it was a great event for the community with Notre Dame playing TSU. So thank you to the city council and for the mayor's office and the whole city getting behind this. We were able to welcome a lot of people from Tennessee. Over twenty five thousand fans from Tennessee State came in.
 And they had a great experience here in South Bend. And so we were able to impact our young people to think about higher education, either HBCU or a higher education. And so it was a great event for our community. And then the week after that, we I just want to send as the chairman of the Parks Committee,
 I just want to give my kudos to Jordan gatherers and all of the individuals that were part of the Fusion Fest, the reimagined of the ethnic festival. It was exactly what we wanted it to be. It was exactly what I remember the ethnic festival being. And in fact,
 It was captivating with the tents and the music and the food. And it was a great event. And although I had a few things I want to commend the police department for being on hand, being visible and diffusing those situations very quickly. So 99% of everything went well. And so we want to celebrate the 99% of things that went well. So.
 Kudos to Venues, Parks and Arts, Shea Davis and the mayor's office and the whole community for a great event. And these are the things that make South Bend a great place to live. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, I'll turn to the purpose of the floor.
 is there anyone wishing to speak at the purpose of the floor individuals wishing to do so please state your name and residential address you are limited to three minutes only the maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes individuals shall not be permitted to adjust topics that the council have heard previous on tonight's agenda
 The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privilege of the floor to the public council member and or request a city clerk to contact the member of administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting. Please state your name and address for the record. Yes, Logan Foster, 1138 College Street.
 Council, I come before you today to share my personal experience with Councilman Davis and to offer a few helpful suggestions for my Councilman. On Tuesday, August 29th, I called Councilman Davis to ask him why he did not attend the last Council meeting on the 28th. I also called to ask why my Councilman is deleting comments on his elected official Facebook page and if my Councilman will ever respond to my email from June 5th.
 As soon as I asked about his lack of attendance, the councilman jumped down my throat saying it is none of my business and he does not work for me. My councilman also said he does not owe me an answer. My councilman said I should just appreciate that he even called me back. I pressed back and reminded my councilman that he's an elected official who works for the taxpayer.
 My councilman replied that he does not work for free. I reminded my councilman of his $21,000 salary for being on the council. My councilman continually jumped me that I had no business to talk to him.
 My councilman said he needs to educate me, and I should be appreciative that he was even on the phone with me. My councilman then accused me of being an operative for Mayor James Mueller. He said Mayor James Mueller put me up to calling him and harassing him. Apparently, council, asking my councilman when he's going to do his job for his district is harassment.
 The great Dr. Martin Luther King said, darkness cannot drive out darkness, only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate, only love can do that. Dr. King continued and said, hate multiplies hate, violence multiplies violence. The apparent hate that Councilman Henry Davis Jr. has for Mayor Mueller is causing a division in our government, and we saw it tonight.
 Councilman Davis is refusing to do his job as a councilman by pushing everything off to the mayor's office. Every time we ask for help, our councilman tells us to go task the mayor. Now Councilman Davis has accused the taxpayer of being a secret operative to the mayor to harass the councilman. The hate in the councilman's heart runs deep. It runs so deep that the councilman refuses to do his job. And that hurts me. That hurts Sarah. That hurts Steve. That hurts the second district.
 While the councilman has been AWOL in the 2nd District, the other 8 members of the council have been forced to pick up my councilman's responsibilities without compensation. What about the other members of the public who have been left unheard, unhelped, emails unread, calls unanswered, or who are just otherwise unaccounted for by my councilman? The 2nd District needs a leader. Some wise words of wisdom from my councilman. Dr. King also taught us that hate is too great of a burden to bear.
 Maybe it's time for my councilman to make amends with Mayor James Mueller. Do it for your city, do it for your district. Thank you. President McBride, I'm not gonna respond to that cause that was just nuts. Cause none of that happened that way. I had COVID last council meeting so that's why you guys didn't see me. But my question to you as the presider of this council meeting,
 over the last several years i've understood that anytime someone comes to the microphone and names the council person by name has been stopped has been asked to sit down has not been able to use their minutes for prisoners of the floor the gentleman that just came before you not i don't have any issue with people's freedom of speech but this person was allowed to use his three minutes
 And talk about me by name when no one else has been able to do that over the last three years. I just want some consistency and order within the rules of the council. Either you can do it or you can't do it.
 I can turn further to the parliamentarian, but I know over the past three years there have been people that come up to the podium because I've been one of those on that end myself. So I can't speak for the rest of the individual council members, but I can let the parliamentarians address that further.
 there's a warning that's given at the beginning of each meeting and also the beginning of the privilege of the floor uh prohibiting personal attacks on people uh that is a discretionary uh decision made by the uh president of the council and if if he or she believes that the
 Thank you. And I think one of the things... And Bob, that was my point because the gentleman that just spoke just sent out a number of things that he said that I did. I would dispute those things, but by me disputing them, it will just continue to exacerbate the problem. My issue is, again, the consistency and rules that are governing this council. Now, if there is a person that feels like they've been wronged by a council member,
 then they should be allowed to come and talk like the gentleman just did. But for all people, just not when it's convenient for one person that doesn't want to hear what that person or that resident wants to say. That's the only thing I'm talking about. I'm talking about the consistency and rules and enforcing them. I don't have a problem with the gentleman coming up and speaking his piece. That's his opinion. He's allowed that. He's allowed freedom of speech. What I'm saying is that it should be allowed for the other eight members of the council as well.
 Thank you for that. Again, I will say that I think that I've experienced that personally several times throughout the course of my disapproval of certain bills from the public. So I do know that through email also wants the.
 information came through, that's when it was turned over to counsel for him to look into or handle that situation and for council members to step back from that. So that's why there's no further discussion from individual council members. And that would be within your jurisdiction now and with Attorney Palmer. But thank you so much for speaking that and duly noted. Appreciate it. Is there anyone else?
 do you see clerk jones anyone online no there's no one online expressing interest to speak and privilege at the floor thank you with that said we stand adjourned good night