Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will also be listed in the chat.
 We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers in-person council at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input during a designated bill, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. Again, insert your full name and your address and whether you would like to speak for or against the bill.
 You will then be given five minutes to speak. If you would like to speak during the privilege of the floor, again, put your name in the chat and your address, and the council president will call on you during that time that you will be given at that time three minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. At this time, may we please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance.
 to the republic which it stands, nation under God, in which it is told, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clark Jones will be doing our invocation. If we could all bow our heads. Father God, we come to you with thankful hearts for bringing us together today. As we prepare to meet together, I ask that you fill our hearts with your presence.
 Help us to use the time we have together wisely. I ask that you remind us to place one another's needs above our own. Please remove any selfish gain from among us, and help us to seek the good of those around us. Grant us patience towards each other, and help us to be respectful of each other's input. We can all learn from one another, and none of us is more important than the next.
 As we have various conversations, I ask that you would help us to communicate well. If there are any misunderstandings, I ask that you will help us to clear them up. May we be quick to hear and slow to speak. May we be even slower to take offense and quick to show grace and forgiveness. May our speech be seasoned with salt and our hearts filled with grace.
 In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis. The leader is here. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax is absent. Council Member White. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Eight present. Thank you.
 If you are here for Bill 4423, that bill has been withdrawn by the petitioner. Again, Bill 4423 has been withdrawn at the request of the petitioner. There are no reports from the subcommittee on minutes. There's no special business and no reports from the city offices. At this time, I will now entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole. So moved. There's a motion. Second. And there's a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 the motions carried the committee of the hold is now in session this is the portion of the council's meetings where bills are given a second reading in public hearing i wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 56-23 a second reading?
 56-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting and approving the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation's 2024 budget and levying the tax and fixing the rate of the taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to fund the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation, South Bend, Indiana, for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2024.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you present your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us. And this bill is public hearing only, public hearing only, and the third reading will be on October the 9th. So, thank you.
 Thank you. Amy Hill, General Manager and CEO for Transpo, 1401 South Lafayette Boulevard in South Bend. Appreciate the opportunity to be here today and provide an overview of the current state of Transpo and also looking forward into our 2024 budget. We have approximately 108 employees. The majority of those employees are members of the Amalgamated Transit Union, which includes our operators and maintenance staff.
 We operate fixed route and paratransit service. We have a total fleet of 50 fixed route buses and 20 paratransit vans serving the cities of South Bend and Mishawaka. A quick look over the past year. Starting in 2014, we were converting our fleet from aging diesel buses to compressed natural gas. We're excited to announce that as of May this year, our fixed route fleet is 100% CNG. That's been a significant accomplishment as far as reducing our costs and also reducing our carbon emissions.
 We also, this past year, completed our Connect Transit Plan. That was an 18-month operational analysis that we partnered with MACOG, who operates the inner urban trolley. This was the first time we really took a look at public transportation across the region. That plan resulted in a short-term budget neutral plan, which will be implemented in 2024, along with a longer-range 10-year plan that would require additional funding to implement.
 We've also been very focused on technology upgrades. We've upgraded our camera system at all three of our facilities, which is our main headquarters on Lafayette, South Street Station in downtown, and our Mishawaka Transfer Center.
 We've been also working on introducing fixed route technology. The installation is underway. This will bring real-time bus information. You'll be able to pull up an application and see exactly where your bus is at any given time. This also includes bus tracking information as well as automatic next stop and ADA announcements. We've been talking about this for quite some time, so we're excited to have this come later this year.
 We've also been focused on expanding our ridership programs. You can see here we've got multiple programs with the area colleges and universities, School City of Mishawaka, South Bend Community School Corporation, Purdue Polytechnic High School, and St. Joseph High School. When you look at those combined programs, that accounts for about 25% of our total ridership.
 We've been very challenged this year with national transit operator and maintenance shortage. We've seen workforce shortages across many industries, and it's hit hard for the public transportation industry. We were fortunate that our collective bargaining agreement, new contract for operations and maintenance went into effect last year. So we're finally starting to see those hiring numbers improve. We've been able to dramatically reduce our numbers of missed trips and maintaining our current service levels.
 As we look into the 2024 budget, we're looking at a total budget of just over $12 million. That's an approximate 2% increase over this 2023 budget. When you look at our local tax revenue, that's primarily made up of property taxes. We also receive a small portion of excise and local income tax. Those numbers have been relatively flat. We did see a decrease in the local income tax a couple years ago that we've now been able to make up some of that.
 On the state level, we're funded through the Public Mass Transportation Fund, which was previously a line item in the state budget. It now has moved under NDOT's budget. That's been flat for over 10 years now. We receive about $2 million, and again, that funds all public transportation agencies across the state.
 On the federal level, we received federal operating assistance as well as federal preventative maintenance. We did see an increase in those numbers during the pandemic. Unfortunately, that was short-lived, so we're looking at about an 18% decrease heading into 2024.
 Our passenger revenue, I think people are always a little bit surprised to see that's only about 11% of our budget. That's actually up significantly over last year. It's up about 30%. A lot of that has to do with our ridership programs as well as the agreements we have in place with the local universities and school city of Mishawaka.
 We've been able to keep our fares flat at a dollar per ride. However, with ridership being down and still recovering from COVID, that ride costs us closer to $10 to provide. So every ride is very heavily subsidized. Our lease revenue comes in forms of a parking garage that we own in downtown South Bend and lease back to the city. That lease continues through 2025, and then the ownership of the garage will revert back to the city.
 We've been fortunate that our advertising revenue is up slightly. We've got a great third party that handles all the advertising on the interior and exterior of our buses as well as our bus shelters. So that has continued to increase each year.
 When you look at our 2024 expenses, the majority of our budget is wages and benefits. That's about 78% of our total budget. Again, our new collective bargaining agreement was focused on increasing our starting wages, as well as improving the time that it takes for our employees to get to their top wage. That has dramatically improved our hiring process and allowed us to reduce overtime while continuing to maintain our current service levels.
 On the benefits side, we've been very fortunate that our health insurance has remained flat. We have not had to pass on any premium increases to employees, and that's due to being a member of the interlocal with the St. Joseph County Health Plan. We have seen other insurances increase significantly.
 Along with utilities and insurance, our property and casualty continues to go up. Workers' comp continues to go up. On the fuel side, our fuel expenses are down, and that's primarily due to the compressed natural gas. We saved just over $1 per gallon for CNG, so that's been very competitive compared to their previous diesel prices. Service, materials, and supplies and miscellany expenses have all remained relatively flat.
 When we look at our operating expenses, you can see it took a big dip in 2021 and 2022. And this is based on our audited financial statements with Crow. We've had clean audits each year. A lot of that was really due in part to the fact ridership was down due to COVID, work for shortage. We were missing some trips. As you can see, it's coming back up with our new collective bargaining agreement and also maintaining current service levels.
 On the labor expense, again, labor continues to go up. As I mentioned with our collective bargaining agreement, we saw significant increases for our starting wages, which were much needed. Our started wages with a new contract increased about 40%. Our employees are also able to get out of that top wage in three years compared to six years. So that will continue to go up over the four-year contract.
 When you look at the local income tax, as I mentioned, we previously saw a decrease of about $200,000. We're making back some of that funds. That was a critical need for us to recoup some of that money. $200,000 in the grand scheme of things may not sound like very much, but that equates to one full payroll for us.
 Some challenges, as I mentioned, our staffing shortage. We've been actively recruiting fixed route operators, mechanics, and service line. We do all our training in-house. We will train individuals to get their commercial driver's license. We will have another fixed route operator training class starting yet again this year to be wrapped up before the end of the year.
 Funding uncertainty is always a challenge. There's some instability with local funding, and again, as I mentioned, on the state level, we haven't seen any significant increase in over 10 years. There's also challenges with long-term federal funding for public transportation. We received some additional funding through the bipartisan infrastructure bill. However, it's questioned as to whether that will actually come through. Now, also facing the government shutdown, that could impact our ability to get some of our grant funds that already have been awarded to us.
 And of course, the increasing employee expenses, insurance, the cost of benefits outside of health insurance keep going up.
 To touch a little bit on ridership recovery, you know, I mentioned this a lot that it's never a good time to have a pandemic. But for Transpo, we were heading into March 2020 with five months of consecutive increasing ridership that we hadn't seen in years. We had a dramatic decrease in ridership during the pandemic. As you can see, we dipped down in 2020. We've been working on rebuilding that. And in 2022 was the first year that we were back over a million rides and we're up 10 percent compared to those numbers through July of this year.
 There's always the challenge and needs for additional service, but obviously providing additional service requires additional funding. And as I mentioned, our Connect Transit Plan, this was a great opportunity to really take a deep dive into our operational analysis. It found out whether we were operating very efficiently. Our short-term network implementation will start next year. That's really going to streamline some of our existing routes, but really to make dramatic changes it's going to require additional funding.
 Part of this plan was also breaking that down and stair-stepping it. The entire additional funding network would cost about an additional $10 million, which would include service on later evenings on Saturdays and a Sunday service, as well as improving frequency from 30 minutes to 60 minutes, all the way down to 15 minutes. So there are opportunities as funding may become available to implement some of those on a stair-step basis.
 We continue to outreach and build partnerships to increase accessibility across the region. That's really been important for us, focusing on ridership, particularly with youth. Our plans with South Bend Schools and School City of Mishawaka, as well as our K-12 summer travel program, provide transportation to tens of thousands of students on an annual basis.
 and again employment opportunities you know we're hiring drivers mechanics service line administrative positions we're fortunate that we have a lot of employees that have been with us 20 30 40 years but that also means that we have an aging workforce so hiring now to maintain full staffing level levels is critical but also in years to come it's really going to be for us to ensure that we can maintain our current service levels happy to answer any questions that you may have all right we've already done the council portion of it so now
 We're going to open up the public. Clay Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 56-23? I don't see anyone in the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 56-23. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 56-23? There is no one present wishing to speak in opposition of this bill as well.
 All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 56-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion. Are we not allowed to ask anything? No, this is just the public hearing portion. I'll now entertain a motion regarding Bill 56-23. I'll make a motion to send Bill 56-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation on October the 9th. Second. All right. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond.
 Aye. Vice President Naskowski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 56-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, this also will be one where we're just doing a public hearing only. Would you please give Bill 57-23 a second reading? Okay.
 57.23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, levying taxes and fixing the rate of taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the city, of the civil city of South Bend,
 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, and appropriating monies for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2024, and ending December 31, 2024, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing of time when the same shall take effect.
 All right. Before we go into this, Bob, we're going to ask that you just kind of explain to everybody because for the last one and for this one, it's only public hearing only.
 sure it's only public hearing on these budgetary items because there needs to be a certain period of time between the time they are first heard by the public or first public hearing and the time that it's voted on to cover that time period it has to be essentially a two meeting gap
 according to our meetings every other week. So this is the public's opportunity to hear and make their own statements. And then the council will actually vote on it on October 9th to give the I believe it's ten days required notice requirement. So there's a ten day notice requirement from the time of a public hearing until the time the bill is voted on. And that's why
 Public hearing is today and the voting is on October 9th in the next meeting. All right. Thank you, Bob. I just wanted to make sure everybody would understand that and know it. And so now, Clerk Jones, at this point, we're going to go to the public hearing. Is there anyone? Oh, I'm sorry. Let's go to the presentation. Good evening, counsel. I asked if you would state your name. Mayor James Mueller, governor.
 with office on the 14th floor of this building. I do appreciate your desire to make the process swift and seamless, but we will give an abridged presentation of the budget. We know you're in the middle of, or winding up the marathon and many meetings digging into all the details.
 and you heard from our controller, Kyle Willis, earlier in committee this afternoon. So we'll just go over some of the highlights and try to keep things moving because we know there's a busy agenda tonight with important legislation and poor folks who came on budget nights with their important legislation.
 So I want to remind everyone of our budget strategic priorities. They haven't really changed in the past few years, of course, and we hear it from residents loud and clear. We want to have strong neighborhoods. We want to make sure that this is a safe community for everyone. Thank you.
 We know we need to invest in robust, sustainable infrastructure, as well as our future. So our youth, workforce development, and then also making sure that as we increase our opportunities, that these are being shared equitably across the community, at least having that access so folks can take advantage.
 We are in our third year of Build the Budget, where we go out into the community and make sure that our priorities and what the council brings to the table are lining up with what folks are thinking we should be doing and investing in. And here you see the Fusion Fest and some other events where our table was out there collecting input from residents.
 They could bring fake dollar bills and put them in envelopes against different priorities. And they'd have to do exactly what we have to do as a city administration. And what you have to do as a city council is make tough choices. We want more of everything. But if you have a finite amount of dollars, how do we want to allocate that to best move our city forward?
 And we're pleased that in the third year, we've broken a record again. This last year was the largest response over the first year. And this year, we have a 29% increase over last year's. Having 30,000 plus attendees, the Fusion Fest probably helped us get some more in-person participants. But nevertheless, we're happy.
 We're excited that over 1,100 residents were able to take part and give us their feedback into their priorities.
 So, you know, this will not be a surprise to anyone that's involved in the city, knowing where residents' minds are and what their priorities are. Five major themes came out. Of course, there's a further analysis in the budget feedback report, but just top level, five major themes is, you know, streets. Make sure that we're paving our streets and keeping our streets in good shape.
 beyond just streets, neighborhood infrastructure. So we know lights, sidewalks, curbs, and all the rest, traffic calming as well. That's something that the residents are interested in. And then we know the violence and the crime in our city is a top priority for our residents and for us. And so making sure that we're taking the steps, including in the budget process, to move us to a safe, nonviolent city.
 As well as, you know, this is maybe a little newer as, you know, as we are growing now, housing availability and accessibility has become more and more of a crunch. So having to spend more time and resources to make sure that we have places for folks to live.
 And then finally, something that is good kind of feedback to get after we've performed some historic investments in our city parks and trails, our residents want to see those types of things continue and continue to build the quality of life and build up our quality of place in South Bend.
 So I do want to give a quick context for this year's budget. We've gone through a roller coaster in the macro economy over the past few years, starting with the pandemic where we turned off our economy. We saw some economic issues there and jobs lost, at least temporarily. But those started coming roaring back, and then we had record inflation again.
 And so, you know, thankfully, the prices, inflation seems to have stabilized, at least for the moment. But it's not like the prices fell back down to where they were headed before that surge. So prices are still high, but have stabilized. Similarly, when we're looking, just like any employer, to keep,
 and attract good employees, the wages have gone up definitely faster than the rate at which our revenue is received. So when we went through the pandemic, you know, there were a lot of questions of how is this drop of the economy going to affect our budget? And of course, we,
 We talked about how our revenue is delayed in some ways by a couple of years in terms of those differences in the economy. And similarly here, even though inflation is going up and prices are going up and we know our revenue sources, incomes are going back, so income tax.
 will accommodate those increases to wages across the board, but they don't happen overnight. So as we're paying higher prices and have to pay competitive wages to keep our workers, we're not receiving the same increase at the same time. So those lag by a year or two, depending on the source. So that's what's happening and it's a challenge for sure. And so that's part of the reason why we have a budgeted deficit.
 deficit. But as we also know, when we budget a deficit, we have a very conservative accounting system. And so even though we budget a deficit, it doesn't mean we actually will realize a deficit or not realize the full extent of the budgeted deficit. And this is for a number of reasons. One is revenue oftentimes exceeds our conservative projections. Also, we don't always spend every penny in every account that's budgeted
 Because a budget is reasonably anticipated revenue and expenses, but we can't predict everything. And that's why we do do the quarterly appropriations process and budget adjustment with the council to make sure that the reality we're seeing on the ground is matching our needs and our budget.
 But nevertheless, we have a structural deficit that makes new programs or new ideas that are going to be ongoing expenditures. They would be unsustainable if we do not find offsetting ongoing cuts elsewhere to make room for them. So this is a budget that we feel good that we can grow into and we will need to continue making cuts wherever possible.
 even during those difficult times in the pandemic when the economy was uncertain, due to federal aid and others that healthy, we've accumulated healthy reserves that will allow us the flexibility to navigate this transition without having to make any drastic changes all at once.
 And then quickly, just the highlights on what we see in this budget. We'll have a full staffing level of officers, so we expect to be at 252 next year. And that's an increase of – well, certainly an increase from this year's budgeted amount, but also an increase from where we had –
 been after the reorganization a number of years ago at 247. So that would be from that reorganization would be a net increase of five officers. Of course, that makes room for our three existing community resource officers, as well as opportunities to expand in other areas to make sure that we're staying on top of the issues in our city and making sure that our neighborhoods are safe.
 Similarly, we have funding and continue to fund the real-time crime center operations. That includes the crime analysts, as well as the other pieces that need to make that run successfully.
 We continue to implement the homeless strategy, and there are new dollars to enable us to move forward on that strategy from years past. So, again, as we move forward, this is an issue that we must confront as a city, and we are continuing to do more than ever before.
 Customer service focus. This is something we've heard feedback from those who either call 311 or approach either me or others on the street saying, hey, you know, I didn't get the answer that we wanted or it was really confusing how to navigate city services. And so there's a proposal here to streamline how we do that, as well as provide some more resources to customers.
 to have residents be able to navigate the issues that they face in the city bureaucracy.
 Finally, rebuilding our streets 2.0 plan. We have not been able to finalize that. We have a new way of assessing the street conditions. As you recall, before we used to use the PASER rating, where an individual would go out and rate every stretch of street from 1 to 10. The new best practices is using imaging and driving through and having – it's a different rating system –
 And I don't know the full details of why, and it goes from one to 100. And for whatever reason, it's not a linear exchange between one and 100 to one to 10. And so we are figuring out exactly how to translate this to our rebuilding our streets 1.0 plan, but nevertheless, we've allowed for ample resources to continue making progress on our streets across the city.
 We're also continuing to make room and have investments in our climate action plan. We know these are long-term investments that don't pay off immediately, but there's something that we have to take the responsibility as a city and do our part and make sure that we're investing in things that make sense. And many of these investments are good at –
 making us become more efficient, use dollars more wisely, or either our dollars or those of our partners. And so that will help to build community wealth over time as well. So it's not just a sunk cost into climate mitigation, but it's also an investment into our community and our community's wealth.
 As we heard from the build the budget, residents still want to see parks and trails investments and neighborhood investments. So we still have a good number of EPA and neighborhood capital projects in this year's 2024 budget.
 Community Initiatives team that was moved into BPA in this 2023 budget is now becoming fully integrated within that department as well as overseeing the GVI program.
 We're also adopting best practices in innovation technology, so we're making sure we're as efficient as possible using the technology that's available to us and making sure that the best practices are being used so that we serve our residents the best, whether that's increased transparency, getting data out there, collecting data, getting data out there, or making sure that there's easier ways for residents to access our services.
 Also, the state's funding source, the PSCDA, the Professional Sports and Convention Development Area projects are on track and hopefully will start moving in 2024. And then finally, as we talked briefly a little bit ago,
 With the continued costs to our families that work for the city, as well as just the costs that are happening all over, we have to remain competitive to be able to retain and attract our workforce. And so we've continued cost of living adjustments that are higher than normal years or at least pre-pandemic years.
 but we know that those are investments that we need to make in our people so that we can continue to provide the services that residents depend upon. With that, I'll turn it over to City Controller Kyle Willis, but happy to answer any questions that you may have following his presentation. So just walk through proposed budget for 2024. Here you have a breakdown of the various departments, starting with the Mayor's Office, going through the City Clerks, Common Council,
 uh all the way down through uh venue parks and ours so total uh spending for the our departments including uh interfund transfers is 372 million 298 thousand seven hundred twenty four dollars um this doesn't include uh redevelopment funds when the next slide you'll see the overall picture that includes redevelopment funds since that does flow through city operations um so here
 is the total picture of uh all city revenues and expenses um as you recall as you can recall from uh august when we did the budget introduction we had we budgeted at an overall uh deficit of about 26.6 million currently we are now back we are now down to 18.6 million um
 12.6 of it is from the General Plus Fund, which is the funds that mainly that pays most of the city's expenses, your general fund, local income tax revenue funds, which are three different funds there, along with the general fund. We were able to reduce the budget due to increasing local income tax revenues and property tax revenues.
 from the projected revenues that we had in our property tax, on our property tax revenues, came in about $2 million more than what we projected. And then on the local income tax revenue funds, there's a total of about 6 million more than what we projected. So compared to 2020, 23,
 local income tax revenues actually increased 8 million, but it was 6 million more than what we projected in our budgeting. So like I said, the General Plus Fund, 12.6 million deficit, down from the 18 that we were back in August, and then combined with our other funds is about a little bit under a $6 million deficit there.
 So here's just more of a breakdown of what's driving that General Plus Funds. There's five and a half million for streets and operating capital. So a lot of that goes towards paving. And then there's various city operations and programs that the city subsidizes as well. But also with inflation, almost increased costs and then increased wages as well to help try to retain talent for our employees here.
 and then below that is just the kind of a breakdown that i know we presented before that shows although we made budget for a deficit um it doesn't always turn out that way so similar to what how the mayor explained you know a budgeted deficit does not mean it's a real deficit because a lot of times we do not spend the entire budget the the entire budget that we that we plan for the oncoming year um so
 and like in previous years we had a five million dollar but didn't five million dollar deficit budgeted we ended up with a 9.9 million dollar surplus in 2021. similar in 2022 6.3 million dollar deficit ended up with a 2.7 million dollar deficit and then this this uh this budget currently we budgeted for a 13.1 million dollar deficit and at mid-year it shows that we were at 2.0 million uh two point two million dollar deficit as i explained earlier um
 the two million dollar deficit i think is not a real deficit either um at the beginning of the year um heard the state board of accounts we were we were told to move all funds from or start receiving funds from 404 into the general fund which is one-on-one so when we transferred those revenues into one-on-one that in accounting in the accounting world that uh shows up as an expense
 Technically, it's really not, but since you move funds from one fund to another, that's the way it's presented. So that's the reason why we show a $2 million deficit at mid-year. But I think it's probably, like I said earlier, it's probably in the $5 million range, surplus range.
 So where are we in the budget process? We've scheduled 11 public meetings. We've conducted six so far. Tonight is number seven, and we will have three more meetings to come tomorrow.
 This tomorrow, this coming Thursday, the 28th and then next next Tuesday, October 3rd, we'll transpose budget presentation. And then there's a that'll be the wrap up and any final questions regarding the budget. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions regarding the budget.
 All right. Again, this is just the public hearing portion. So now we will go to that. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 56-20? I'm sorry, 57-23. There's no one who will publicly express an interest to speak in support of Bill 57-23. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? No.
 of Bill 57-23. I ask that you will come to the podium and state your name and address. Yeah, it's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. So I guess first I have a rhetorical question is, will our property taxes ever be lowered? Is, you know, first we heard the gentleman say, we have a deficit, then we don't have a deficit. You know, I don't believe this is a math problem. We do have a deficit.
 We can move funds around and we can play money games, but we do have a deficit. The deficit is in the pockets of all the districts in South Bend. The deficit is in my bank account. It's in our bank accounts. So you guys get to sit up here. You guys will get a vote on this. But when this deficit next year, when you guys get a vote on this budget again, it'll be come to how are we going to pay for it and we'll raise property taxes.
 Just like I know we can't speak on the past things, but whenever we get a vote on these things and raise funds, when we get raised salaries, who pays for that? We have to pay for that. So we do have a deficit. And, you know, they said a lot of words to say, you know, I'm going to pay for that. We're all going to pay for that. And there's no answer for that. Thank you. If I may. Yes. Okay.
 The nine counselors that are up here, we do not raise the property taxes for the residents of the city of South Bend. Just just for your information, we don't. That's not our function here. Right. But we we don't.
 Yeah, that's not our function to raise. That's the county is the one who does that. And the county actually is mandated by the rules of the state. I'm sure you've heard of 1, 2, 3. So there's a market rate analysis that is done on the different properties. But the values of the properties at some point are capped as per state law. And that's what the county does.
 uh, follows at the, at our level here, we do get monies that come in from, um, as a result of property taxes that help run the city of South Bend. Anyone else? There's, oh, I wasn't going to, but just as a rebuttal, the city does set their own tax rate separate from the county tax rate. So when he's saying our taxes go up, it, it is set at the city level and that each
 Accountship sets their level, so if everybody keeps raising their budgets, our taxes do go up. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 57-23. I make a motion to send Bill 57-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation on October the 9th. Second. All right, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 57-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right. We're now going to give Bill 58-23 a second reading.
 5823 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council the city of south bend indiana budget transfers for various departments within the city of south bend indiana for the year 2023 is there a committee report uh yes chair this was heard in personal and finance today and was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole is the petitioner president i essentially state your name and address share those key points regarding this bill this before us
 kyle willis city controller uh county city building 12th floor uh just want to highlight a few of the budget transfers here um but transfer from vpa venue parks and arts in the amount of four hundred and thirty six thousand dollars from the from their capital fund um over to their over to their debt service funds to cover uh golf cart leases
 $200,000 budget transfer out of park maintenance to community initiatives. In the 2023 budget, there was some miscommunication on park maintenance and budget that there would be portion of their budget allocated towards community initiatives to cover the program that's overseen by the community initiative department. So we're just making that budget transfer so they can use those funds.
 And then $150,000 budget transfer and venue parks and arts as well to cover fees for the new management company of all of our parking garages. All right. House members, do you have any questions? If not, we'll move on to the public hearing portion. Clark Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 58-23?
 There's no one from the virtual audience expressing to speak in favor of Bill 5823. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one present to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 58-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 58-23.
 make a motion to send bill 5823 to the full council with a favorable recommendation second there's been a motion in the second clerk jones please call the role council member warner council member white council member tomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president nizgatsky hi council member davis
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 58-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, please give 59-23 a second reading.
 59-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2023 of $1,740,000 from the general fund number 101, $356,000.
 $1,800 from the Parks and Recreation Fund, number 201. $104,999 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, number 202.
 $1,200,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222. $160,200 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601. $42,688 from the Water Works Capital Fund, number 622. $200,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund, number 640. $3,000,000.
 From the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642, and $293,000 from the Storm Sewer Fund, number 667. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. As the petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and give us a key point regarding the bill that's before us.
 yes uh kaiola city controller county city building 12th floor um a few highlights here uh venue parks north has a 500 000 dollar appropriation for um downtown south bend and block by block expenses incurred in 2022 to be paid in 2023 uh 700 000 um
 Appropriation from the police department due to the increase in salaries as they have budgeted for 238 officers. They are now at 249. Appropriation of $293,000 in grant proceeds for storm sewer. Appropriation of $3 million also for sewage works.
 as part of the long-term capital plan for hydraulic improvements as this project is required by the SRF and the long-term consent decree that we have regarding our utilities. And there's a $1.2 million additional appropriation for central services. As I mentioned earlier, central services has, some of their staff have left for higher paying jobs. So we've had to outsource some of that work
 As far as the repair work that we do on our city vehicles, we've had to either outsource that and then the cost of parts also has gone up. So when that happens, that means the departments that central services service, they have to build them back at higher rates than it would be if the staff was up to handling the amount of work they're handling. So the 1.2 that we are asking for appropriation will get them through the end of the year.
 all right council members do you have any questions yeah yeah councilman davidson you know um can you hear me yeah i can hear myself uh question and thank you for your report um could we stop using the benchmark of people leaving the city for higher paying jobs what how because the the the conversation gets colored in such a way that we are not doing enough
 as a public body to employ people at a higher level. We can't compete with the private sector. The private sector knows that. Most people know that. If our benchmark is because people are leaving because they want higher paying jobs, well, that's just a natural thing that happens across the entire world.
 Why are people really leaving? Probably would be the better way of responding with surveys asking folks why are they leaving versus higher paying jobs? Because I can't believe that 100 percent of the people that are leaving are leaving because they're getting paid higher wages. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, we'll turn to the public portion. Clark Jones, is there any at this is at this point?
 the public portion is open uh is there anyone wishing to speak in favor bill there's no one from the virtual public um expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill is there anyone present with wishing to speak in opposition there's no one present virtually expressing interest to speak in opposition as well at this point the public hearing on on bill 59 23 is now closed
 I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 59-23. Make a motion to send Bill 59-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. It's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member White. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 seven eyes all right bill 59-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation clerk jones will you give bill 60-23 a second reading
 6023, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We know that our petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address. Share with us key points regarding this bill that's before us. Yes, Kyle Wood, a city controller, county city building, 12th floor. So, yes, as we discussed earlier today, this GBI group violence intervention position.
 was originally overseen by the city, but then was moved over to Goodwill. The person in this position has since left and discussions were had to that felt that it would be best to bring this position back under the city's supervision. Basically, you know, oversee it and manage it better to get the most out of this position. Right.
 so this like i said this was decided earlier this summer uh this disposition will be housed in community initiatives i think it's a the job title i think is gvi project manager uh with the salary cap of uh 65 000. all right council members are there any questions if not i will move to the public hearing portion okay i asked and see no one moves so fine
 I'm good. Okay, great. When adopting or talking about GBI, and I know this is the position that we're talking about amongst others,
 What was the metrics that was taken into account to say, hey, we need to keep doing this and we need to make sure that we pay somebody $60,000? Because that's a lot of money based upon what people are making here locally. And given the fact that crime seems like it hasn't fizzled down, seems like it continues on and actually grows, who came up with the idea that this should happen based upon the performance of GVF to this point?
 Well, I wasn't involved in those conversations, but director, I spoke with director most guys. And I think once the guy, I think his name was Isaac over at Goodwill. Once he left, obviously there was nobody in the role. So once it became vacant, I think there was talks between the Goodwill and the administration to bring that back here to get someone in a position to actually perform in that job there.
 Now, the seller cap, that's not something I would say we bring somebody right in and pay them right there to sell their cap. So, you know, I...
 I don't know what the exact salary be to once we bring someone in for that position. Well, yeah, sure. The reason why I'm saying this and this is not being laid on your front porch because you're obviously making a decision. I just know that we are in a position where we hear about crime all the time. We hear about youth violence, hear about all of these things. And this is like usually the headline that we are always met with each morning or every weekend.
 And when things are not like going well like that, it's kind of hard for me to say, well, we should fund another position doing the same thing because obviously it's not working. We need to figure out what should could work and then fund that versus, you know, the same thing over and over again. But I digress. If you don't mind, I can. No, I was talking to him. Yeah.
 I mean, I can't answer the question that you had. And the question was that the GVI program manager has been the person who coordinated the relationships within the GVI strategy. City had it. They brought it to Goodwill. And then that person who was in that position is no longer there. So it's going back to the city. So why do you know so much about it? Yeah.
 Because I work at Goodwill. You work for GBI. I don't work for GBI. You did? Yeah. You know I don't work for GBI anymore. Anymore. That's what I was asking. So that's why you know so much about it. Because you work for GBI. I was very, very much working with GBI. And sitting up here with us. No, I had the job before I had that. I actually had a job. Yeah. And so, Councilman Davis, I just wanted to give you clarity so you would understand what
 The position is long-running with goodwill. It's coming back to the city. It's the same position that's been there since the beginning. And it's the same results. That's why I asked the question. No, actually, if you— It's the same results. I get it. We've made some positive strides in our violence in our community. How so? So, well— How so? Well, the month of— You should toot your own horn right now. How so? We have—OK. So that was the explanation of—
 what's going on with the position. So at this time, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 60-23. I move that we send Bill 60-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Aye. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 council member warner hi president mcbride hi all right bill 60-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation clerk jones would you give 61-23 a second reading
 61-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 6, Article 13, Sections 6-71 through 6-78, addressing responsible bidding practices and submission requirements on public works projects.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Do we have a presenter? Good evening, Council. My name is Rachel Tomas-Morgan at 114 Chapin Street. And Councilwoman Sheila Nizgatsky, 4942 Scenic Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46619.
 As we presented in committee this afternoon, in 2018, the Common Council passed an ordinance, Chapter 6 of the South Bend Municipal Code, to include new Article 13, establishing responsible bidding practices and submission requirements on public works projects. Four years later, we are coming before the Council.
 with proposed amendments that represent improvements and updates to the original ordinance to reflect current circumstances and to ensure that the highest quality of standards continue to be utilized during the bidding process. Like the original bill in 2018, these amendments were also crafted through the collaboration of City administration and departments, the Chamber of Commerce, trades, and other key stakeholders.
 Specifically, the amendments include updated apprenticeship requirements. It inserts an apprenticeship clause that a contractor is deemed responsible if they are registered in a U.S. Department of Labor recognized apprenticeship program that has graduated at least five apprentices in each of the past five years per construction craft the bidder will perform on the project.
 Under the proposed amended ordinance, the required evidence includes participation in a USDOL registered apprenticeship program that meets this graduation threshold. The updated language communicates the city's commitment to growing the labor force in construction crafts and ensuring well-trained, highly qualified, and safe workforce.
 Changes in this amended ordinance also include increasing the minimum threshold for applicability from $150,000 to $250,000. The increase considers inflation and provides more opportunities for smaller or first-time bidders, including MWBEs or XWBEs, to participate in bidding on city projects.
 And just to add, I believe one of the biggest things we see here is raising that threshold to 250,000, increasing that opportunity for our MWBEs to participate in PublixWorks contracts, as well as growing that well-trained, highly qualified, and a safe workplace for all of our workers.
 I would ask for you all for your consideration for this amended ordinance and would like to thank Councilwoman Tomas Morgan for her work in collaboration with everyone that she mentioned with this ordinance. Thank you.
 All right. Council members, this bill comes before all of us with bipartisan support. And I just want to thank the administration, the Department of Community Investment, Public Works for their support, the chamber trades, as I said earlier. But all of you, the other co-sponsors on these amendments for your collaboration and work to bring this forward. If...
 I'll turn it to President McBride, but there are other co-sponsors on this bill if they would like to add to the presentation. No, thank you so much for your presentation. And you guys did a great job of the hard work and time that you put in with the trades and also administration and to work to get this bill to a great bipartisan bill. So thank you. And I would also like to add that Councilman Wax is in support of this bill as well.
 Great. Council members, do you have any questions? Sure. Yeah, quick question. You said it's bipartisan support and when there's only like one Republican here, but I did hear that you got support from the Chamber of Commerce. How are those two married? Because over time, I've paid attention to being a part of these discussions. The Chamber has been vehemently against a number of things, especially when it comes to the unions.
 So how are you able to get them to agree? Well, your Councilman Davis, you're bringing up two separate things. Councilman Wax did lend his sponsorship to this.
 to this bill and these amendments and Jeff Ray representing the Chamber of Commerce was part of discussions that we had on this. That doesn't answer the question. The question is how does the efforts of the Chamber and union come together? That's the question. So basically this is a bill for all trades. This is about a highly qualified and highly trained workforce here in our city
 for the public works jobs that are done in our city. So this isn't a union or non-union bill. This is a bill about the workforce that we have trained highly trained qualified workers.
 So this is more than that. It is a bipartisan support by means of Councilman Wax. But I think everybody in our community and the state for that much have been pushing for the trades in trying to get those jobs filled. There is a shortage in a number of plumbers, pipe fitters, electricians, the laborers. They're just really out there trying to maintain their workforce levels.
 And this helps do that. So I think that you may be looking at it. If you're looking at it in that way, I think it's a very good collaboration. Well, I don't see anyone from the chamber. I see all union membership here right now. That's why I asked the questions because it seems like this. Look, I'm going to support it. Believe me, I am because that's who I am, who I've always been. But I have no idea how the chamber and here in Indiana, especially with the right to work and all the other things that we are up against.
 is supportive of such an effort. Highly trained workforce is the number one thing within our community and other communities throughout the state. And thank you so much for your question. Well, they say that about non-union outfits, that they can train them better there. That has been the age-old discussion. Yeah.
 I just again thank you for your efforts in bringing the chamber to the table. So building that relationship and having the communication and input is a big key for the bipartisanship. So thank you for those efforts to extend that invitation and for him to be a part of this bill. Thank you all for all of your work. Thank you. Anyone else?
 I would like to say that I really am a very appreciative of the chair of this committee, Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan, Councilwoman Naskowski, and also all of the representatives of the Council.
 that came to the table and had a very good discussion. It was a give and take, which is, you know, how you go about making changes, but also working with administration. This is gonna have a tremendous impact.
 in terms of ensuring that we have that apprenticeship and that we are really adding back to the trade. So, again, thank you so much. And again, as I said earlier during the committee meeting, this process started when the ordinance was approved, I think it was 2018.
 And so it's good business that you go back and you look at what you have taken action on. Is it fulfilling the goals and objectives? And it also gives us a great opportunity to make amendments. So thank you so much for all of your efforts.
 I do want to say, because it's important to give credit where credit is due, I really want to thank the city administration and our department leadership, especially Kayla Bowers, to helping to bring people to the table as well. Thank you. All right. At this point, we'll go to the public portion. Is there anyone, Clerk Jones, from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 60-20, I'm sorry, 61-23?
 There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in support of Bill 6123. Is there anyone present here in the public wishing to speak in favor? You can come now and state your name and address for the record.
 good evening again Council uh Mayor James Mueller with offices on the 14th floor of this building I just want to say thank you to everyone who made this possible uh this is uh this shows uh what we can achieve when we work together and uh there were some questions about how can you get the chamber and the trades and all these folks uh together and uh this is one of those ways in which we appreciate the leadership in this cycle of
 Council Member Rachel Tomas Morgan and Sheila Nizgatsky. But of course, I remember the cycle when we got the original RBO a few years ago with then President Tim Scott, Vice President Karen White. And I forget what title you had at that time, Sharon McBride, but...
 That those were, you know, it's a process to get everyone on board. And a lot of times it's working through worst fears and getting facts and making sure we all understand what's at stake and what the bill actually does. And so we appreciate all of the hard work that council members did. Thank the trades. Thanks, Jeff Ray. And of course, thank Executive Director of Community Investment, Caleb Bauer, who.
 who stepped into the role I played for Mayor Pete in 2018 and helped to kind of bring the administration together and on board with these discussions. So thank you. Hopefully this gets a unanimous passage tonight and I look forward to signing it tomorrow should it arrive on my desk.
 Please state your name and address for the record. James Gardner, 1001 North Michigan Street, Lakeville, Indiana. I want to commend the administration and all parties involved on being proactive instead of reactive. We do need to reach out to these students and be able to get them into the apprenticeship programs. We've been working very closely with the schools.
 with outreach and in the addition to the aspect of raising the threshold of being able to sit there and help out the XPEs in the community to be able to sit there and grow and build their businesses. I think this is a great piece of legislation, and I commend and thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Council. Randy Nielsen, 23698 West Western Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. I, too, am in favor of Bill 6123 of including the apprenticeship amendments. Yes.
 In the current RBO, I think it will promote new blood, young people in our trades, which will promote highly skilled, qualified workers down the road. I also think it's a win-win situation for the city and the taxpayers, too. Thank you. Thank you very much. Clerk Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill.
 All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 6123 is now closed. I would now entertain motion. Make a motion to send Bill 6123 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis.
 I said I was going to support her earlier. I am going to support her, but you guys need to ask for more. We are back here every two years. Go for more. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. You deserve it. Council Member Warner. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 All right. Bill 6123 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. All right. Those in favor. Aye. Those opposed. Aye as happened.
 The full council is now back in session. This portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5823 a third reading?
 58.23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the year 2023. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 58.23? 58.23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 58.23. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded.
 All in favor? Aye. Oh, I have to take the roll. I'm sorry. I'm moving too fast. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Who'd you call? Aye. Council Member Hammond. OK. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Bill 5823 has been adopted. Third, will you please give Bill 5923 a third reading? 5923, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2023 of $1,740,000 from the general fund number 101, $356,000,
 $6,800 from the Parks and Recreation Fund, number 201. $104,999 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, number 202.
 $1,200,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222, $160,200 from the Parking Garages Fund, number 601, $42,688 from the located
 From the Water Works Capital Fund, number 622, $200,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund, number 640, $3 million from the Sewage Works Capital Fund, number 642, and $293,000 from the Storm Sewer Fund, number 667. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5923? 5923 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5923. Move for passage. Second. Then move and second it. The roll, please. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill 5923 has been adopted. Aye.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6023 a third reading? 6023, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Ordinance Number 10894-22, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023 to establish one new full-time position.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6023? 60-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 60-23. Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes. Thank you. Bill 60-23 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 61-23 a third reading?
 61-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 6, Article 13, Sections 6-71 through 6-78, addressing responsible bidding practices and submission requirements on public works projects.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 61-23? 61-23 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 61-23. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye.
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tillmuth-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Kate Ives. Thank you. Bill 6123 has been adopted. Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where Common Council hears bills found as
 Filed as proposed resolutions, the title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendations is then given. During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please state your name, address, and comments on the bill. If you have any questions or
 They will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Clark Jones, will you please give Bill Resolution 2356 a reading? 2356, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, announcing the formation of a Repertory Justice Commission and the members thereof.
 Thank you. Sharon McBride, 415 East Broadway Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. A resolution of the Common Council announcing the formation of a Repertory Justice Commission and the members thereof.
 Whereas earlier this year, a proposed resolution calling for repertory justice in the city of South Bend and a response to a proposed resolution calling for repertory justice in the city of South Bend, the president of the South Bend Common Council promised the formation of a repertory justice commission. And whereas that proposed resolution recommended many remedies to pass wrongs, including the formation of a truth and reconciliation commission made up of the representatives and members of affected communities,
 to be responsible for advising the city on how to make financial reparations to impacted communities. And whereas although the proposed resolution was not passed by the Common Council, it opened the way for much of a broader discussion of the need for reparatory justice in South Bend and what that need consists of. And whereas the response to the proposed resolution.
 President Sher McBride promised the formation of the commission to study various aspects of repertory justice in South Bend and whereas that promise is being fulfilled through this resolution. Whereas this commission will operate independently of the Common Council, will select its own chairperson, determine its own direction in the discussion of reparations in South Bend and related matters, and have the flexibility to restructure itself as an entity other than a commission if necessary to facilitate the goals of this resolution.
 And, whereas it is expected that the Commission will take whatever time is necessary to provide the Common Council its written findings and any suggestions for potential future actions by the Common Council. Whereas the members of the Commission are David Buggs, Wilner Kuzik.
 Conrad Damien, Aladin DeRose, John Duffy, Judith Fox, Darrell Heller, James Lewis, Cordell Martin, Alma Powell, Trina Robinson, Gilbert Washington, Cassandra White, and Regina Williams Preston. At this time, I would open it up for a council to see if you have any questions. If not, I'll turn it over to the public to see if there's any public comments from the present audience.
 that are in favor of the Repertory Commission. Clark Jones, do you see anyone online? There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak on this bill. Thank you. Anyone speaking in opposition? There's no one present to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. I'll turn back to counsel, see if you have any comments. Yeah, I have comment. I have a long list of comments. I really want to...
 hone in on the fact that this needs to happen, right? I really believe that many of the people that have suffered here in this community are people that look like me, look like you, Sharon, look like you, Karen, and look like you, Kenneth. Even more so after the contamination was found over at Bex Lake and
 After all these school closings and just so many other things that have impacted African-Americans here in this community, the redlining conversation, there has to be an intentional effort on trying, not trying to, but making sure or ensuring that African-Americans in this city do better here socially and economically. Twenty five percent of the population is African-American. I think it's higher than that, but I just go with the book definition right now. It's 25 percent.
 And out of that 25% of African-Americans, we are like number one on the list for everything that's negative in this community. And all of all of those things have a lot to do with our economic stability in this community has a ton to do with it. We just finished talking about the responsible bidder ordinance. I didn't hear a lot about the MBE.
 We've created a new alternative for getting folks who are of minority descent, black people in particular, an opportunity to bid on these projects successfully so that they can feed their families. Again, it hasn't happened. I raised this issue months ago with the idea that it was going to pass and we're going to be able to put timestamps on it to get people activated and get some clear findings faster.
 I'm not sure what happened before. I'm not here to bring up the past, but it's insulting that somebody can steal your idea and then repackage it and bring it back to you and ask you to buy it. I'm going to support it. I am. I just hope that this is well intended. This is heartfelt and that we're just not doing this or the sponsors of the bill is just not doing this free reelection.
 African-Americans need the support and the help of this elected leadership. If nothing else, the RRP funds went to a community center. We're worth more than the community center. We're way more, way more worth than that. But that's what happened. We digress. We sat down on a community center. Good job. You do have my support, though. Thank you, Counselor Hammond.
 I would just like to mention that in the original resolution there was a call for an apology from the administration for all of the wrongs that have been done throughout the history of South Bend against this particular population. And I would hope that.
 the mayor and the administration would reconsider the idea of issuing a full-fledged apology to this community because I think it is desperately needed. Thank you.
 i don't think i can speak for the mayor but what this resolution is solely doing is naming the commission and i think the commission members who are tasked with that if that's part of their recommendation um that's where this uh the autonomy and the independence of that will be coming out of that commission thank you but i don't think it's something that has to be recommended i would just think it would be recognized well i can't speak for the mayor and i don't
 Tell many here. So that's something that you definitely can follow with administration. Any other comments from council? I would just like to say I just want to say thank you for for bringing this to us. And this is much needed. And the thought being put into.
 what can we really do in order to right the wrongs of the past? Reparations are either an apology or money allocated or making sure that policies happen so that we don't repeat what happens in the past. And so I think that the, the,
 committee that has been selected. We've got a very broad group of individuals that will be able to really look at this issue and give us some concrete things and recommendations. And that's the important thing. We don't want to just do things just for the moment. We want to actually do something that's going to make an impact. So again, thank you, and I will be supporting this resolution. Thank you.
 No other comments at this time. I would like to entertain a moment. I'm sorry. I had a question. How did you come up with the list of the people that you've chosen for the commission? There was, there was recommendations and there was also a communication that I had with, uh, Daryl Heller and other people in the community who, uh,
 uh wanted to be a part of this and then i extended and reached out to who had a background in housing health department um at the time um people in the housing industry and so it's a very diverse group of individuals that we looked at yeah right and so when i saw the list it just looks like the same people that we have on all all these other boards commissions around this community i just hope that we would expect
 span our scope well i think if you look at it further you wouldn't see that because i do see i'm the one who well i don't know what commission you're looking at but um that's the this is that's this commission and we would be moving through it there's no one from the city that is on the commission um at all so everyone that is impacted when you talk about housing who better can you have than judy foxx
 would be one of the top ones. Trina Robertson that represents the NAACP. Gilbert Washington, who is faith in Indiana and one of the pastors that can talk from the religious community. Regina Williams Preston, who was a former council person who has a lot of hurts and harms from the second district. So there is a plethora of various diverse people who are very knowledgeable and experienced that can bring a lot of great things to the council. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I would take the time to yield to Councilwoman White for a committee report for this resolution. Thank you. The Residential and Neighborhoods Committee met this afternoon, held a committee meeting and also public hearing. And the committee made the recommendation to send this to the committee.
 the president in terms of under resolutions with a favorable recommendation thank you um bill 2356 uh is adopted second has been moved in second clerk jones the role please council member warner hi council member white hi council member thomas morgan hi council member hammond hi vice president niskowski hi council member davis hi
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 26, 2356 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, please give Resolution 2357 a reading. 2357, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 542 North Scott Street, South Bend,
 46616 and 430 Cottage Grove Avenue, South Bend, 46616, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a two-year vacant building tax abatement for Property Brothers LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, President McBride. This came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Presenter, please state your name and address for the record.
 yeah my name is mark beamenderfer with offices on uh the 14th floor of this building uh manager of business development here they uh powerpoint real fast well yeah anyway so uh for your consideration or bills uh 20 oh if i may uh cover bills 23-57 and 2358 excuse me i would like to entertain the motion to hear 2357 and 2358 together second
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Presenter. Thank you. And if we could share the team's comments.
 screen so that way I can show the the PowerPoint thank you so uh for your consideration today are bills 23-57 and 23-58 which are both designated resolutions for uh real properties at located at 542 North Scott Street and 430 Cottage Grove and real property to be developed at 616 Sherman Avenue sorry about that
 So 23-57 is in reference to a vacant building tax abatement for the Scott Street and Cottage Grove buildings pictured on this slide. And on the following slide are all three properties tied into this project, which are reflected in Bill 23-58. This bill designates the collective properties as being eligible for an eight-year multifamily real property tax abatement and
 These properties will all be developed by Property Brothers LLC, which is owned by Jordan Richardson. The combined bills will help support what the developer has dubbed Project Legacy, which is intended to increase the supply of affordable housing within the NNN. So, Project Legacy's goal is to convert the two existing structures into affordable multifamily units, along with developing a new similar unit on the vacant parcel.
 The outcome will be the development of at least seven new affordable housing units within the NNN. Total private investment to make the project occur will be a little over $900,000, and one part-time employee will be hired to maintain and manage the properties. This employee will be on call with an hourly rate between $40 to $50 and will be paid per the job. So combining the net tax impact of the two abatements between the vacant building and
 abatement which lowers the current taxes on the property and the multifamily development real property abatement we see total taxes abated of around 109 000 and taxes paid of a little over sixty two thousand dollars during the eight year period
 So, this slide reflects a more detailed breakdown of the impact of the multifamily abatement with breakdowns on the estimated annual taxes paid, taxes abated, and also the decade following the abatement period showing the tax impact of the increased assessed values.
 with that said uh it covers the essentials of the collective projects um jordan richardson of property brothers is uh he did call in to answer any questions directly and i'm happy to answer any as well thank you so much i will turn now to counsel or to see do you have anything to add mr richardson
 Yes, thank you. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Council, good evening. Participants, visitors, good evening. Sorry, I cannot be with you this evening. I am here away teaching some courses at a distant location. So unfortunately, I'm not able to be there. However, I'm very excited to be back before you once again with just the follow through of what was promised more than ever.
 four months ago when we came and got the land for that vacant, where that's going to be the new build, where that land was rezoned, that would allow up to six units. So just a little bit of recap for those that may be looking at this for the first time. When we came before you to get that land rezoned,
 We knew that, and you, we all knew we talked about this actually at the meeting about how the rising cost of construction is a real thing. It's a real thing that a lot of communities are facing which which are is prohibiting new development and that's unfortunate. And so, in times like this.
 Community support, city support is important, especially for what we call as micro developers, people that are boots on the ground, that are new, that are raising and growing farms and improving an area.
 And so we hoped for a six-unit, one standing building, but as the numbers penciled out and things continued to rise, we realized that if we went and collaboratively attacked multiple, some existing, and a new build on that land, that economics would work better for the collective and would still be able to bring six units online.
 Well, fortunately for us and the promise that we made, we were actually able to plan for more than six units, but actually a total of eight with a minimum of seven units online, which is something that we're extremely proud about. So, as you know, because we came to council more than four months ago, this has been a project in development. It has taken a lot of punches, uppercuts.
 chocalls in regards to getting it across the line. But I will say that I'm extremely honored that Caleb and Eric and Mark amongst a few who are supporting and helping me and the team get to the place where these projects can become a reality. And not only for our sake, for our community sake and for other developers that are behind people like me that wanna take this on as a full-time career and job and passion.
 that to be able to show them how it's done and how to work with the city to get projects like this off the ground. So super excited to be presenting this and to be moving forward. We do have a very strong LOI in place in terms of financing for this project as well. So we're extremely excited about that. That's definitely a step that always acts like where you're at. And we're at the finish line in terms of that.
 standpoint. And so I'll take any questions and would really love to have your support on this project and appreciate everything that everyone has done up to this point. Again, I know this is our second time coming before you and you probably saw this coming. So we're just happy to be here. So thank you. With that, I'll turn to council, see if there's any questions of the sponsor or the petitioner. If none, I will open it up to public to see if there is any one in favor of.
 Resolution 2357 or 5358. There's no one from the virtual audience that is expressing interest to speak in support of these bills. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2357 or 2358? There is no one present to speak in opposition as well.
 Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. Counsel, I'll turn back to you. What's your pleasure? President McBride. Yes. Before I make a recommendation for passage.
 i want to say that um at some point this council this leadership and because it's strictly policy there's going to have to be an understanding of what a housing tiff is and one developed there's going to have to be a pilot program that's developed you're losing money that's what mr foster was just talking about as related to the budget the reverse side of it is that we're giving out these tax abatements like they're candy on halloween
 Something is going to come due and we're not going to have enough money to pay it. We get our money from property taxes and we send it to the state and they send it back.
 and so that's how we operate as a city uh city function city services and so as the housing is growing as people are asking for more tax abatements to help supplement what's happening there needs to be some housing tip discussions there needs to be a pilot program that's installed here in south bend if not we're going to be in really really bad trouble in in the next five to ten years but um i would recommend that number bill number 2357 go to the uh
 I RECOMMEND IT FOR PASSAGE. SORRY. SECOND. SECOND. IT HAS BEEN MOVED AND SECONDED. CLERK JONES, THE ROLL PLEASE FOR RESOLUTION 2357. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Resolution 2357 has been adopted. Please read the roll for resolution 2358.
 Oh, wait. Clark Jones asked that bill number 2358 recommended for passage. It was read together. Yeah, you read it together. So you had to vote through separately. Yeah, I thought I heard somebody stop me. No, you said second. Great job. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 aye vice president niskowski aye council member davis aye council member lee aye council member warner president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you resolution 2358 has been adopted thank you clerk jones will you please give resolution 2359 a reading
 Thank you. 2359, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1302 West Sample Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46619, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Imagineering Enterprises, Inc. Thank you.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, President McBride. This came to Community Investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. The presenter, please. Mark Biemenderfer, Manager of Business Development with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 So thank you for your consideration. Today is Bill 23-59, which is a confirming resolution for a five year personal property tax abatement for equipment to be installed at 1302 West Sample for Imagineering Enterprises. So for a little additional context on Imagineering, they've been in operating in South Bend since 1959 and they have three locations, two within South Bend and one within Indianapolis.
 So, as far as the specific confirming resolution, they're looking to purchase $2.6 million in new equipment to establish a new electrolysis nickel line. And part of this line will require hiring 10 new employees, two of which will be phased in each year over the next five. And those 10 additions are anticipated to bring or add about $427,000 to the collective payroll.
 and should increase the revenues specific to that line by about 25 to 30 percent. And so as far as the tax abatement impact, during this time there will be an additional estimated new taxes of $173,000, of which $127,000 will be abated and $45,000 will be paid in new taxes.
 So beyond the abatement period, there'll be an additional new taxes generated of roughly $30,000 during the following five years. So this slide is a little bit more of a detailed breakdown on the aforementioned numbers. And this is since this is the confirming resolution, we discussed this previously. I'll open to any questions or comments and Lauren, maybe the controller over at Imagineering is here as well. Thank you.
 for the controller you hear would you like to come up and have some words to say thank you please state your name and address for the record and welcome
 I'm Lauren Eby, the controller at 1302 West Sample Street. I guess a little bit of history behind Imagineering. We've been around for 60 years. When the owner purchased the company, there were 15 employees. As of today, there are 171 employees. And so we've really invested in the community. Our company offers metal finishing, testing, consulting services. Our parts go internationally. We don't actually make the parts, but we provide coding to help make things possible.
 not corrode. So that's some of the history. We're in aerospace, we're in automotive, we're in a lot of interesting industries that has kind of brought to light South Bend. We have two locations here. 70% of our business is done in South Bend and then 30% is done in our Indianapolis facility. And I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you. I'll turn to counsel, see if you have any questions of the petitioner.
 No, I'll turn it at this time to the public. Is there anyone in public wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2359? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of Resolution 2359. Thank you. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Resolution 2359? There is no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well.
 Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel for comments. Counselor Hammond. Thank you. I have great admiration and gratitude for the fact that you have been in South Bend for 60 years. And we thank you for that. But in terms of tax abatements, I do not agree as a general principle that using only job creation as an adequate measure of community benefit is
 and as a measure that allows a qualifying increase for the amount of the abatement. I can't support the use of just the creation of 10 FTEs, especially at a wage as low as $16 an hour, and allow that to be considered community benefit for South Bend, because it simply is not. So I will not be supporting this bill.
 Thank you. Can I speak on that? Yeah, I understand that our starting wage is $16 an hour, but the average for someone in that line is around $19 an hour. Our 16 is kind of our starting wage and then 24 kind of goes into the manager and supervisor roles.
 So I just wanted to touch on that. But you're also phasing these 10 employees in over time, correct? That is correct. But also with those 10 employees, those are 10 employees on our shop floor. That doesn't include the quality workers behind it, the administrative work, the customer service. So not only will it bring in 10 shop floor workers, but it will generate jobs throughout our company. Thank you. Any other comments? Counselor Lee? Yes, ma'am.
 Lee, I just want to say thank you. And for being in our community for 60 years and and being able to provide starting out with 15 people and now 175 and the other 10. And then we're believing that that it'll be greater increase in employees. And so, again, thank you. Yeah.
 Thank you. Councilor Tomas Morgan. I'm just echoing the same. I want to thank you for your investment in South Bend. Two weeks ago, we had extensive conversation about this and in committee and and on council. And it was important for those of us there to see the 10 jobs that were being proposed here and
 and at the total salaries that you presented. And our council will, and community investment committee, will have ongoing conversations about personal property tax abatements going forward. But the fact that you are bringing before us 10 jobs to stay in this community, new jobs to be in this community was a big incentive. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you, alternate council. What's your pleasure?
 Motion to adopt 2359. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Nay. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. President McBride. Aye. Seven aye. Thank you. Resolution 2359 has been adopted. Bill's on first reading.
 sir jones will you please give bill 6323 a first reading 6323 first reading on an ordinance of the council of the common council of the city of south indiana setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2024. thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill 6323 to personal and finance for public and third reading on october 9. so second all in favor any opposition motion
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6423 a first reading? 6423, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the calendar year 2024. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding to send Bill 6423 to Person on Finance for public hearing and third reading on October 9. So moved.
 Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6523 a first reading?
 65-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, reaffirming ordinance number 10891-22 and fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Police Department for calendar year 2024. Thank you. I would like to now entertain a motion to send Bill 65-23 to person on finance for public hearing and third reading on October 9th. So moved. Second. Been moved and seconded.
 All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6623 a first reading? 6623, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2024. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 6623 to personal and finance for public hearing and third reading on October 9th. So moved. Second. Been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motions carry. Clerk Jones, please give 6723 a first reading. 6723, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2024 in conformity.
 With ordinance numbers 10820-21 and 10831-21 and amending and clarifying the longevity pay at section 7 of these ordinances. Thank you. I would like to now entertain a motion to send bill 686723 to personal and finance for public hearing the third reading on October 9. So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6823 a first reading? 6823, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the City Clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2024.
 thank you i would like to entertain a motion to send bill 6823 to personal and finance for public hearing and third reading on october 9. so moved second it's been moved and seconded all in favor aye let's try that again all in favor aye any opposition the motions carried clerk jones will you give bill 6923 a first reading
 69-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the South Bend City Clerk for calendar year 2024. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 69-23 to Person on Finance for public hearing and third reading on October 9. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 the motions carried thank you unfinished business just a reminder to council if you have not submitted your name or your appointee for the crb board please do so as we anticipate having it listed for the next council meeting so if you have not submitted your name up to three names you can submit uh for appointment to the crb board any other unfinished business
 sure when are we supposed to send in our um addresses for our sidewalk and and and curb allocation we usually get an email that is doing october and i think october is just a few days away and so uh where are we at with the
 you're all right that's what she's saying it is october when they i believe it's october when they notify us for us to submit our address locations because the reason why i'm asking last year i had to send my i remember my conversation with the gentleman who was he's not here anymore in october and so when i didn't do it it was just back and forth all the way to december and then i didn't get everybody that i put on the list because they wanted in october so that's why i'm asking
 testing should be this october for consideration for the work to be done in 2020. yeah i got that yeah yeah if i may interject so i had a uh conversation with miss stanton over the the sidewalk program she said they're mrs jim stanton and uh she said they're changing how our it will be inputted uh and they're still finalizing that and we should know that fairly soon
 Thank you for that. Appreciate that. That's what I was looking for. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any new business? At this time, I would open it up to the purpose of the floor. If there's anyone who's wishing to speak at the purpose of the floor, please come up and state your name and residential address. You have three minutes. The maximum time for this portion of the meeting is 30 minutes. And there are no topics that you can discuss that was discussed on tonight's agenda. Welcome. Come on up.
 please state your name and address for the record stephen davis 11 26 college tree i uh come before the council here about six weeks ago to find out why code enforcement isn't enforcing ordinances and i have heard nothing from the council from the mayor's office i've talked to him twice code enforcement uh they were down the street about a week ago
 And they tagged two dumpsters that were in the street. There was about six that were sitting in the tree lawn. The officer told me they don't have time to tag everything. Also, we've got people driving across sidewalks and stuff to park in their yards. And that's still going on. Hasn't been addressed. And grass height. We've got grass in my neighborhood. It's probably close to two foot tall.
 It's visible to the public. A lot of it's in backyards and the alleys. And like I said, code enforcement, nobody there seems to want to talk about it or give me an answer why they're not enforcing these ordinances. Someone has to give that order. And I would like to see something done about it and get an answer from them. Thank you. What's the address on that grass cutting? Do you have the address on it?
 That's probably going to be a lot more quicker than getting cold for us from out there like it's supposed to be. Yeah, 1130 College, about 1106 College, 1102 College, or 1104. You said 1102? Yeah. 1106. It's a vacant lot. 1130? Yeah. And what else? Then on the other side of the street, there's a couple more of them.
 um there's a couple houses where they are not mowing the yards that'd be 11 25 and 11 37. thank you sir okay yes sir hi mark rolfus 11 22 napoleon street uh and i have applied to be on the the police community review board uh so just want to tell you a little bit about my background i went to notre dame where i studied anthropology i went back to my hometown of wilmette illinois where i was elected to be on the park board of commissioners
 I then moved to Michigan. I joined the social justice committee at my church and I started a prison ministry there.
 Then I moved to South Africa where I ran an orphanage for a year and a half, serving 57 children as their legal guardian. I then moved back to South Bend where I'm on the Notre Dame Club board. I'm on the board of a group called Men's Talk here, which is also on the board with Charles King, who's the director of the community police review board. And this year I started volunteering at Our Lady of the Road to help the homeless, feeding them on Saturday mornings. Hopefully you're thinking this is the kind of guy we're looking for. But there's one more thing I have to tell you about myself.
 I'm a Republican. So I talked to Eli Wax and I said, well, I really want to serve on this committee. And he said, well, currently, the way we're approaching it is that all nine of you would be allowed to pick one member. And he can't pick me because he has to pick someone from his district. So he said I'd have to go to Mr. Warner or one of the three outlaw large people to get a spot. And I said, what do you think the odds are of them picking a Republican? And he said, well, probably not very high mark, to be honest with you.
 But if this group, we all want this group to be real sleepy and quiet because there's not going to be any problems with police in our community. But if there is a crisis, we do need to have this committee look like the people in South Bend, district by district, race by race. And since South Bend is 40 percent Republican, I really think you should consider having a formula where you have two or three slots for Republicans.
 So if there is that crisis, not only to hold the police accountable, but we need to be helping heal the community from that rift. And that's what I want to do. That's why I'm motivated. I've talked to Charles King about his vision, and that's why I want to do it. If there's a crisis, I want to be part of the healing process and work with Charles King. I have a great amount of respect for it.
 So perhaps you could consider changing the model that you're using, maybe have the six district people pick a spot, but then have the three at-large people say they have to form as a committee and pick one, preferably two. That would give us 33% representation out of 40%.
 But find a way to get two or three Republicans on there. And I would love to serve on it. Maybe you have another Republican who apply who has a better resume than me. But we need to help that. If there's that crisis, you need to have us with you to help with the process of healing the community and finding out what went wrong. So I just ask for your consideration on that. And I appreciate all the service you do. I know it's a thankless job. You're giving a lot of your personal time. So thank you for everything you're doing and hope I can help you with that.
 with this position thank you i appreciate your comment but if you if i may if i'm not mistaken with the ordinance each council member has up to three people that they could submit their names so it's not just one um per district it will be one serving out of each district but each council person can submit up to three uh people
 Yeah, and whatever the process you use, if you have somebody to have Republicans. I just didn't want you to think it was locked into that. So Mr. Wax can also submit your name as well. Oh, even if I don't live in his district? No. Well, actually, no, that has to be at large. I thought you did. I'm sorry. Yeah, I know. I talked to you, like, because we're both Republicans. Because he has someone already, correct? Well, he told me he had to nominate someone that lives in his district. Yes, yes. Pardon me? Sure.
 1122 napoleon right by notre dame's campus so i think that's mr warner's okay thank you thank you very much thank you please state your name and address for the record
 i'm don foster 132 chapin street and uh this was a nice act to follow for that that young man so um one of the things that i want to share is and just to share initially is my appreciation for the hard work you guys do i this is not my first time here but i've got to watch and witness a lot and i know it's it's
 Sometimes, like you said, thankless, but you got hard jobs and the city has a hard job and the mayor and the police and the whole thing. And I've been here 23 years, live on Chapin Street. And, you know, the crime has gotten worse. Like you said, it's it's it's bad out there. It really is. And it's not getting any better. So one of the things I want to share is that we have to.
 We have to think a little bit differently today. We're going to have to move forward differently if we want things to be better for everybody. So just doing the same thing repeatedly is just not working. And adding more police is, I'm not against that, but I don't know that that's going to be the true answer. So what I'd like to do is come today, instead of coming to you with some complaints or arguments, I'd like to come to you with some suggestions and to try to make my part, my small part of change to help. And, uh.
 we have to heal the land we need everybody needs to heal we need to come together more than ever and i want to give offer just a couple solutions um just as far as a starting place and one of them is i'm going to send an invitation to all of you is this saturday october 7th we're going to be at four winds and uh we're bringing everybody together for prayer
 And we like to invite all of you there. Love to have your support there. Love to have the mayor there. And it's one of those things, we're gonna start four different directions.
 as Four Winds. We're going to come from different places of the city and we're going to march. A lot of us are going to march to the stadium and come together for not looking for just revival. I mean, it's great. Revival is important, but something deeper. And we need to reunite. We need to reconnect. And one of the solutions is it's a beginning to bring us together, not for a football game, not that I'm against football, but come together for this city and for this land. And we start here in South Bend.
 And we start uniting too. We start uniting the churches. We start with 100 churches. And then we take that to 1,000. Unite them for a common good. Because everybody knows each other. Everybody does. When you have all the shootings, the mass shootings you have, we know somebody that knows somebody that knows somebody who knows that person. And why is that happening? They need help. They need healing. We need to reach out to them. We need to communicate. And if you can get the people, us, to support you and the city,
 We can become a stronger city together because just you trying to do it and do it, you're limited resources, right? We talk about finances and money today. It's all limited, what you have. But you've put the numbers together and the people one by one, neighbor to neighbor. We can make a difference. So I bring that to you. I have this for you to offer each one of those. I brought one for you. And, uh.
 i will send one personally to the mayor before we're done but hillary land it'll be this coming at the four winds so we'd love to have you uh october 7th 2023. thank you for us thank you thank you for the opportunity he stole my announcement i was going to announce that tonight and i worked very carefully closely with kevin michelin and and helped him with all of that together
 Stoma, stoma announcement. Thank you. Sharon Panicki, 3822 Ford Street. I wasn't going to come because, you know, things have been kind of quiet around the neighborhood. But some friends that I've talked into coming to talk to the council instead of just talking to me said, you know, we're there and you're not. So why aren't you coming?
 So here I am. I didn't come after we had our fourth drive-by shooting at the house, which really wasn't a drive-by shooting because the people walked up the driveway and shot point blank into the intended house. This time they did hit a woman in the house. She got shot twice in the legs. We did get a police car parked back out front after that. That happened on a Saturday night. The Friday night,
 My grandson had spent the night, so thankfully he wasn't there the night it happened. I wanted him to come back. I reached out. We had the police car for two weeks. I knew my time was running out. Some of you have already heard this, but I reached out to Scott and I said, look, I know it's time to move the car, but my grandson's spending the night and this car may not mean much to many people and it gives me false security, but I need that false security to
 And Scott, wonderful man that he is, said certainly no problem. He left the car there over the weekend, got us over the hump. Monday, the car was gone. I do have awesome news. The people have been evicted as of midnight tonight. They will be out of the house. Sharon knows this. Most of you don't know this.
 Now that they're out of my hair and somebody else's problem, the two boys that were arrested, the two brothers for the shooting, those were my neighbors. They're 16. He's already on a second gun charge. The 21-year-old, he's had gun charges. What the paper doesn't tell you is there's a middle boy in there. He's 18 years old. He's currently sitting in the county jail with machine gun charges.
 They picked up the father on the 20th. They picked up the two boys on the 20th. So on the 20th of September, they had the father and three sons all locked up in the county jail. I don't know what to do. I mean, they're no longer my problem. They're now somebody else's problem. Hopefully the prosecutor takes care of it better this time than six months for a machine gun charge. But I can breathe after tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Appreciate that.
 and your information and persistence with the police department and reporting it to the council and administration. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else with that being said? We now stand adjourned. Good night.