Taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the civil city of South Bend for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2022 and appropriating monies for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the city of South Indiana for the fiscal year beginning January 1st, 2022.
 and ending December 31st, 2022, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing a time when the same shall take effect. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. This comes out of the Personnel Finance Committee with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is the petitioner present? Mr. Oh, there you are. I didn't think you'd leave yet. Wouldn't miss it, Chair.
 So yes, this is the thank you chair and Parker City controller. My office is on the 12th floor of the county city building. So this is the public hearing of the 2022 budget. So what the bill before you does is levy the property tax for 2022.
 and um appropriates the 2022 budget. A couple of kind of housekeeping notes, and then let the let the mayor come up and and and we'll get begin the presentation. The budget as as we talked about earlier, the budget numbers that are that you see in the bill are the advertised numbers, and so we always advertise high and then we bring down back down to.
 to the numbers that will be adopted in the final the final bill. So there will be a substitute version of this bill based on feedback. We've also built in some cushion for the results of negotiations and those kinds of things in the advertised numbers. So so so just a note on that. I did also want to mention where we've been. This has been the 2022 budget process. So I think we're 11 meetings in and we have at least tonight's and then two more to go at least before before the vote goes.
 um uh or or the first opportunity for the vote to go would be october 11th so so this is where we've been um and then tonight is is the only one of these uh uh 14 meetings that's actually required by state law um which is the public hearing of the 2022 budget um so with that um i think i'll uh turn it over to mayor mueller to talk through um the the first part of the 2022 budget presentation thank you mr parker good evening again council
 Mayor James Mueller with offices on the 14th floor of this building. And I just want to start out by saying that I hope that this is the most exciting budget process that we've had, especially for those who've been on the council for a long time. It should be exciting because of the historic resources we're receiving from the federal government that open up the opportunities that we haven't had in the past.
 And knowing that we're at this critical moment with historic resources, we've tried to work with you and the community to get the most input as possible. To be honest, it is still very difficult to get people excited about a budget.
 So I'm glad for all those who joined us here tonight in person and online, because the wheel game you see in the bottom right there, that was popular at some of the events. But without the wheel, it's still a struggle, even with these historic resources that get people really fired up about the budget.
 but we nevertheless uh we've been able to collect through the different avenues of feedback about 807 total resident engagements on the budget and you see the breakdown by district there now of course that represents less than one percent
 of the of our population in the city. But you know, we feel you know, there's obviously some niche groups that really started to come together and push a particular thing that may not be representative of broader priorities in the community. But by and large, we do think that the engagement that we had here.
 is representative in many ways of what the community is looking for out of this budget. So there you see eight times as many engagements as last year.
 So, with that, I believe you received a copy of the summary report of the build the budget engagement process, and that's available for for members of the public on the city website at south bend. I end dot gov slash budget, and it just goes through the different priorities, what the outcomes were by by this resident feedback.
 Now, again, you can say this was an unscientific collection of feedback from residents. It's less than 1%, but a lot of the priorities that were identified through this process are the same that we do find in the scientific polling we do every two years in the city survey. That's statistically significant to the council district level.
 And it's also consistent with other polling sources of city priorities from residents that I've seen as well. So, you know, this is when you look at that report, it's not scientific, but it it is as representative of the community as as, you know, we have at this point.
 So we're here to work on this budget and take advantage of this generational opportunity for transformation. And we know that here are the six priorities that we've converged on together over time as the top priorities, both from the resident feedback, the council feedback, and the administration as well.
 We also know that, you know, on the bottom part of the slide where we are and where we sit as the city economy is expanding again. We're a growing city again, the first time in many decades.
 to this level anyway. We still have low interest rates and healthy reserves, so we have flexibility to take advantage of opportunities. And we do expect that there will be more opportunities in the next two years than even all of these historic things we're talking about with ARP dollars and other things, because we hope Congress will pass an infrastructure bill. We hope they'll pass the Families Plan, or whatever it's called now, the reconciliation bill, I guess, with
 a nondescript their name.
 And we know there are some state resources coming down as well that we'll be taking advantage of. But with interest rates being low, having a good bond rating and room to borrow more and having healthy reserves available to us, we hope to take advantage of as many of these funding opportunities as possible and do expect to see more good projects than even what we're proposing in the 2022 budget thus far.
 So just to put into perspective, particularly with the previous conversation, is just our total budget is just over $380 million. Much of that is spoken for in terms of just keeping the lights on or fulfilling statutory requirement, federal, state, or local requirements.
 And then 76 million or thereabouts is the strategic spending. And this is our sustainable operational budgets outside of the ARP. So when you look at operations and initiatives, putting up the local dollars supported, and then you put the ARP dollars available to us in perspective, it's almost a year's worth of initiatives in a typical year.
 I'm going to wait for Dan. I'm going to step back and let Dan go through the details of the presentation and just want to give a few highlights of what the budget has. So first, you know, we could give a big pitch about everything that's good in the budget and all the high level pieces. But I'm not going to do that tonight. I know you guys have been digging into the budget over the past few weeks and we'll have...
 uh continued conversations as we go forward in the process i think everyone recognized i think even people you know people who may have concerns about this or that i think most people recognize that this is already before we continue our work together already the best budget that we've put forth
 And I think it'll be even better as we continue to talk about it and engage about it. And that's whether you're talking about investments in historically underserved neighborhoods. I will note that the ARP dollars that were just in the 2021, we're contemplating major investments in neighborhoods that haven't seen a lot of investment over the years. So whether we're talking about the community center in the far northwest neighborhood,
 or we're talking about a big project with the Dream Center in that neighborhood. So, you know, we're already expanding what we're offering here because of these resources that we haven't had available. So whether you're talking about that, whether you're talking about infrastructure, we know there are more dollars for infrastructure than we've had at least any time since I've been working in the city. So you go down the list.
 We know because of these resources this is already going to be the best budget for a lot of different things and the question is Gonna be you know more on the margin We know that these line up the budget lines up with the priorities we got from residents Dan's gonna go through the details in a minute about how they line up with council members priorities that you gave us This is your budget. This is the community's budget just as much as it's the administration's budget already and
 And we'll continue to fine tune it in the next couple of weeks. But we're already there. Now, I know everyone. And when you look at the resident feedback, you're going to be able to look at districts change. The districts have different priorities. We get that. There are different realities in each district. We also know council members have different priorities. And I'm not sure that, you know, if we had to rank every priority, you know, from one to whatever, I'm not sure that any two of you would necessarily agree with the exact order of that.
 And so we know this process is a compromise from all involved. And that's what we're trying to do. And, you know, we think, you know, you look at the resident engagement, you look at the, all your council members, not just your own, look at your fellow council members. How do you get a broad coalition on board? Look at their priorities too, not just yours. We're, we're honing in on that compromise. And so again, there could be some tweaks. There'll be some things to work on, but again,
 At the end of the day, we've got nine council members. We've got 103 residents of the city. And so that's what we're balancing, and we're trying to deliver the best for them.
 So that's, you know, I feel pretty good about where the budget is. I know there are issues and some questions. And this year in particular, because there are so many things going on, it took a little longer to get through just the presentation phase. So we haven't had as much ability to go back and forth because we were still just trying to present all of the things being proposed. But nevertheless, I think this is going to be.
 I hope the next few weeks are exciting for everyone because once we start moving forward, then the hard work really begins. We're you know, we've got to.
 This is an ambitious proposal that's before us. This is, like we said, almost double the strategic initiatives. We're gonna have to work to deploy these resources in the community. And so, you know, on the staffing and the operations side, it's a balance between long-term sustainability and getting these resources out to the community as quickly as possible.
 So, there are those balances. There's short-term and long-term considerations that we have to take. So, take the pre-K centers. There's a long-term benefit that those offer. There's also short-term benefits, as well as some of the spending that we're proposing to confront climate change here on the local level. A lot of the energy policy is controlled at the state level, but we think we can make meaningful progress here with some of these dollars on those programs.
 This is exciting. I think, like I said, I'm not going to go through the whole list and all the highlights
 We're a city of 103,000, and I appreciate each and every one who sits through these council meetings with us each and every week. But I know they've been here throughout the whole process. Everyone knows roughly what's in the budget and why it's so great. We need to go out to the community and share how this budget is so great. And I welcome any council member who will be given invitations to come out with us to share all of the good things in this budget and really –
 unite the community around our future, our shared future together. So with that, I will turn it over to Dan to go through the details once again, or at least a summary of the details, and look forward to working with all of you and community members as we move through the process. Thank you, Mayor Mueller. Appreciate your comments. Mr. Parker?
 Thank you, Chair, and thank you, Mayor. One comment that I did want to make just before I get into the high-level summary of some of the spending highlights in the budget is that there's been comments about some operational costs that are proposed to be increased in the 2022 budget. And we've talked about how this historic investment, this doubling of initiatives and the potential for future investments from the state or federal government as well –
 there's really a need to operationalize that investment, right? There's a need to operationalize the programs. You can see from the numbers here, if you look at just the operations of the folks who will be operationalizing these dollars in the strategic operations, from 2020 to 2022, there was a 2.6% increase in that cost compared to 131% increase in the strategic initiative cost.
 Another way to look at this is that the operational cost increase is only 4.8% of the total cost increase of these strategic initiatives. So it's almost an effective overhead rate of the implementation of these programs. And I think certainly from my perspective, and I think it's a good thing
 anybody who has familiarity with the operationalizing programs would agree that 4.8% overhead is a pretty good and efficient way to operationalize these things. And so as we look at expanding things like community investment and the Office of Community Initiatives and those things, that's the reason we're doing that is to try and really make sure that this money gets out into the community. And so I did want to just keep that in mind as we go through some of the initiatives.
 So, again, looking back to initial conversations around the budget, the first thing we always start with is cash reserves and revenues. And so you can see on the far right the proposed revenues. I'm not going to go line by line, but definitely some increases that we're expecting in 2022 in a variety of different areas, but also some decreases in.
 And total revenues are expected around $355.5 million in 2022.
 Those of you who are paying attention over the past few slides probably recognized that, and we talked about this in the budget initial as well, that total revenue of $355.5 million and total expenditures of $381.9 million means that we have a deficit budget in front of us of about $26.4 million overall.
 As we've talked about in the past, that deficit is driven primarily by about a $6.3 million deficit in the General Plus funds. And so the General Plus funds is our general fund plus our income tax funds. And so that's kind of the general operations of the government. It's police, fire, community investment, code enforcement, administration, sort of the core governmental operations.
 It has a $6.3 million deficit in the 2022 proposed budget. As we've talked about a few times, on the structural side especially, we are still looking to get to a balanced budget over the next three years or so. That is one of the reasons why we've really taken pains to try and separate out the structural budget from the ARP-related budget over the course of the past 11 budget hearings.
 is because we want to make sure that we are not overextending that structural budget and we do have a glide path towards balanced budget. That being said, in the general plus funds, we do have healthy reserves and we can, in the short term, withstand the deficit here, again, to try and make sure we're getting those dollars out into the community where they're needed.
 The other parts of the deficit is primarily driven by water and wastewater, especially on the capital side. The way that the capital for water and wastewater works is these projects take a very long time to kind of operationalize. And so we appropriate them all at once on the capital side. And so they may take several years to actually come to fulfillment. Right.
 But so it looks like a large spend down in a single year, whereas it may actually be spread over a number of years. And that is all according to the plan that was presented to council during the raids package. And then there is also a two point seven million dollar internal fund spend down internal service fund spend down. Our internal service funds are things like our central services fund, our health insurance fund fund.
 we don't intend to keep dollars in those funds um in the most in most cases certain cases we we have a minimum reserve but we don't really like to keep too much above that um and so when we do have expenditures that don't uh aren't as high as revenues in those funds um in future years we we true that up a little bit by having a deficit and that's what we see here so that's what makes up the primary amount of of the deficit in the 2022 proposed budget
 As the mayor said, I just want to run quickly through some budget highlights and spending highlights. All of these things have been presented over the course of the budget hearings. And as we've been presenting, as council members know, we have really been tying each one of the initiatives
 to the feedback that we received from the residents in the build the budget sessions. And we put up the graph that shows here were the spending priorities of residents. What we haven't done as much is really tied the initiatives back to what council members, what you yourselves told us you wanted to see in the 2022 budget. And so to just kind of run through those,
 if if we start with strong neighborhoods and look at affordable housing on the left side are our direct quotes from from council members on what what you wanted to see in the 2022 budget so uh an expansion of home repair a plan for for safe and affordable housing uh incentivizing new housing construction um and and incentivizing investment in aging housing stock
 The 2022 budget responds to that. There's a fourfold increase in resources for housing compared to 2021. So there's four times as much resources available. And we're looking to do exactly what council members suggested, looking at the issue of affordable housing from all sides, looking at access to funding for existing home repair.
 Also incentivizing the number of new homes by removing barriers to financing, and then providing home buying assistance directly to residents and continuing to leverage CDBG funding. So really, really responding to this issue from a variety of angles to try and attack it. An issue as complex as affordable housing needs to be responded to at a variety of levels and council recognize that in there in your priorities, and the 2022 budget recognizes that as well.
 The neighborhood infrastructure side, year after year, this is very prevalent in council priorities. Streets, street paving, curbs, sidewalks, lighting, traffic calming, very important. And the 2022 budget, in addition to, which I'll talk about in just a second, fully funding the Rebuilding Our Streets initiative for the second year, has doubled the amount of spending as compared to 2021-2022.
 for lighting, curbs, sidewalks, and traffic calming. And so it is a direct response to, we need more lights out in dark areas in the community. We need sidewalks. We need traffic calming has been a big, big topic of conversation this year. Double the investment on those kinds of neighborhood infrastructures to 5 million in 2022's budget.
 on the neighborhood planning side um the council priorities are just addressing challenging neighborhoods how do we keep our city clean and tidy how do we upgrade corridors um throughout the city Michigan Street Miami Street as well as other quarter quarters I heard during the budget hearings Portage I heard Lyndon I heard um uh the
 the other areas throughout the city in addition to Lincoln Way and Western for sure how do we get those upgrades in place addressing dilapidated houses anti-dumping ordinance so the 2022 budget in
 planning for these neighborhoods is really beginning a two-year investment in our comprehensive City plan 500 000 from the 2022 budget and then a proposed 500 000 will be coming back in the 2023 budget to to really address these things at a city-wide level um and and really take a take a big step back and see how they impact not just each individual neighborhood but the city as a whole um
 and then informed by each individual neighborhood plan and the comprehensive plan investing nearly $4 million, which is more money than we've probably invested in the last 10 years in commercial demolitions to address some some longstanding concerns in the community. So, uh,
 the the bill 116 21 will jump start that tonight in 2021 and then 2022 will be an additional nearly four million dollars we're expanding the successes of the West Side Main Streets to continue to to invest in Lincoln Way and Western but also expanding that to other neighborhood corridors a direct response to Council priorities and opening up that to to Citywide and investing in some of the neighborhood amenities
 that make those business corridors great. And then exploring the startup of a land bank to really figure out how we can address not just dilapidated houses, but vacant lots that are in the community and looking to partner with a community partner on a land bank.
 on the the second priority of safe community uh lots and lots of conversation around violence reduction and and uh recruiting and retention at south bend police department um so ensuring the safety of residents by providing necessary resources reviewing the data on gvi and violent crime reduction um really looking at violence sort of from a holistic perspective and then also looking at our homeless residents and figuring out how we can really implement have
 uh document and implement a a sustainable plan for addressing homelessness um and so the 2022 budget continues to and expands actually investment in violence intervention programs through the office of community initiatives both on the operational level by adding two staff members by continuing the investment in the save team and can and actually expanding the amount of resources available for violence reduction initiatives through the arp the total of all of those being about 1.8 million
 um expanding investment into public safety technology to help the south bend police department provide new and innovative ways and south bend fire department provide new and innovative ways to keep to keep our residents safe and then on homelessness um having a really actually a historic investment in homelessness we talked about that in the context of the 2021 budget that it was a historic investment in homelessness we're continuing that in the 2022 budget and then
 adding to it with proposed partnerships with the county on homelessness and mental health initiatives to take care of everyone in the community. On the infrastructure side, as the mayor said, I don't think that there's been this much money available for infrastructure in many, many years. And we hear it again and again. And if you've had an opportunity to sort of page through the reports that we handed out at the committee meeting, you probably noticed people care of infrastructure.
 People care about streets and they want clean water and they want us to invest in these things. And so the rebuilding our streets plan is fully funded for the second year in a row. We are we are fulfilling the promises made to council during the rates rates package talks on the water and wastewater side, as well as on the stormwater and continued investment in there. And then a direct response to council to to an express priority around green infrastructure programs.
 including investments in solar energy and electrical vehicle charging infrastructure, trying to address some of the impacts of climate change, as the mayor said, on the local level.
 um the equitable access to opportunity um job creation additional funds for small local businesses um really uh just like in every other category historic invest in historic investment in job creation and small businesses um looking to remove barriers for for financing for small local businesses to the tune of about three million dollars continuing the investment in facilitating opportunities for for small local especially local minority and women-owned businesses through the office of diversity and inclusion
 And then something that we're really exciting about is ensuring South Bend's a welcoming community. So the mayor mentioned that our community is growing again. One of the ways that we can continue growing is by being a welcoming community for immigrants and providing support for immigrants to settle in our community. And so we want to have a fund to provide those resources to immigrants.
 On the youth and workforce development side, lots of priorities that council expressed. Funding for the renovation of the Martin Luther King Center, creating opportunities for high school graduates to have high-paying jobs, funding for youth development programs. Youth development programs and youth employment especially came through again and again in the council budget priorities. And the 2022 budget response.
 There is continued investment in the youth employment program which was started two years ago by Council within VPA as well as the mentored mowing program within VPA. There's also it not just on the youth side but adult.
 workforce development as well to focus on removing barriers to employment as well as focus on skills development. So not only focus on developing the skills needed in the workforce, but how do we make people more employable to be able to access some of these jobs that are available? As we just heard a lot about investing in pre-K centers and quality affordable health care, which is a direct response to council budget priorities. And then, specifically,
 specifically called out in the council budget priorities was I think actually twice or three times was the Martin Luther King Center and the complete renovation of that. And we talked about that already yet this evening as well to jumpstart that in 2021 and then continue that into 2022.
 And then the last one, this is not one that we actually highlighted during the budget process as much because it's really more about the way we put the budget together and the way that we operationalize all of these strategic initiatives. So there was 2022 Council budget priorities around intentionality with the ARP funds, around making sure we're moving towards a balanced budget, around trying to implement participatory budgeting and performance based budgeting,
 and then, uh, a lot of discussion around, uh, investing in the, in city employees by, by making sure that we, that city employees earn a living wage. Um, and the 2022 budget, we've talked about it several times. Uh, the strong financial management that this council has had over the, the finances of the city over the years has allowed us to be in the position that we're in, where we can take internal resources. We have, uh,
 we have these resources on hand to leverage those external investments and amplify the effect of those investments that are coming in from ARP and other things. And so that's what this budget is allowing us to do is to use some of the cash resources that we have on hand to really amplify that effect.
 I talked about how the separation of the ARP budget and the structural budget is really making clear the funding levels that we believe will be sustainable in the long term, as opposed to those that are really one-time investments. Even if those investments are going to be around for a while, will not require ongoing city investment into the future, like the establishment of loan loss funds and those kinds of things.
 Um, we're also operationalizing the investment in the community. We talked about how we're operationalizing, operationalizing that at a very effective and efficient rate from an overhead perspective. And then on the city team side, nearly a 20% increase in the city's minimum wage from 10, 10 an hour to $12 an hour, and then a move, a move of all full time employees to at least $15 an hour. And then obviously
 ongoing negotiations with fire and teamsters to see how those turn out. So there are a few outstanding items on the 2022 budget despite this being the the budget hearing. So the completion of those negotiations is one of those outstanding items. As I said, when we when we advertised the budget we did make some room in in the numbers.
 to accommodate whatever the results of those negotiations are. But at this point, they are in the budget at 0%, and so we're awaiting the outcomes of those. And then, obviously, we have at least two more budget hearings
 on this Thursday and next Tuesday, where we will continue to engage with Council on this Thursday. The clerk's office and the Council itself will present those budgets and then we'll continue to to receive feedback and questions at both of those meetings. So with that, that is the 2022 budget in a nutshell. And chair, we'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Thank you for your presentation.
 Council members have any questions over Bill 118-21? We'll start to my left. Councilman Warner, do you have any questions? Councilwoman Hammond? Just to clarify, the voting on this tonight isn't in bills on third readings, so this will come back to us with a substitute bill.
 and we'll have more engagement around this process correct just the public hearing portion yes that's correct so the the the budget process actually requires a 10-day period between the public hearing and when the vote occurs so we that we historically have always done it at subsequent council meetings so we have the public hearing um tonight uh and then the third reading would be at the next um council meeting on october 11th so any debate needs to happen now yes for the public
 that's why we're having the public from the public hearing now yes i'm just confused i thought we had to vote on different portions of the budget as the salaries and then could you clarify that's what i'm asking that there were two um uh bills that we've heard uh one was the transpo
 And then that was only helpful public hearing. And of course, council members could ask questions, but then it would come back, if I'm not mistaken, in October the 11th and would be in the council portion. That's right. Because the public hearing has been done.
 And the one that is before us now, it has a advertising period that it has to be advertised. So this is the public hearing. And that doesn't mean we can't ask questions, but basically it's for the public. Then it'll come back to the council in the council portion only. And then we will have engagement with the substitute bill. Yes, that's correct. That's clear. Thank you. Oh, you're welcome. Thank you, President White. Okay. Councilwoman Thomas-Morgan.
 Thank you, Chair. I don't have a question. I just have a comment at the proper time. All right. Thank you. Councilman Davis, do you have any? I just have a comment. I don't have a question. Okay. Thank you. Councilman Lee? No. No. Councilwoman McBride? Not at this time. President White? No. And I do not have any questions at this time either. So at this time, we will move to the public hearing portion.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 118-21? And I do not see anyone. Oh. Good evening. If you could please state your name and address for the record. My name is David Buggs. I have a building at 3607 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46614. I have some words to.
 in favor and some words against. Can I do that? I haven't been up before you all in a long time. This would be speaking in favor of the bill. Okay. I'm not sure there's anything that would prevent you from coming back and speaking to the opposition of the bill as well. So I believe you could fulfill both roles. Okay. Okay. Well, here is, this is where I would begin in favor of,
 I heard words that said this is a once in a lifetime opportunity. And in this once in a lifetime opportunity, we have to act in a manner that's in a once in a lifetime event. This pandemic has exposed things in our society that has disproportionately affected the African-American community.
 I don't say that with any shame. We have to recognize that huge elephant in the room, and we have to target the issues that have been made very apparent during this process. So I approve the budget that we're trying to make some headway in making some improvements. But I do think we need to have better focus and understanding
 all the issues that are present. I'm getting ready to leave out of the country. I was getting my COVID test and listening to this, and we're missing the mark. I love the ideal of building streets, but the streets weren't affected in COVID. People were affected. People died. I'm going to come back. I'm going to talk against, but for, I'm for making sure our people are well-represented
 in the areas of where this calamity has struck the hardest. I'm not hearing that. I would really like to hear it. Now, many of you know, born and raised in South Bend, I was only gone for seven years when I was in the military. I raised my children here. They went to school. My son graduated the same class with Pete and Mayor Mueller.
 Worked my way without a father to get through Notre Dame, and I purchased a building because this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to help the African Americans who have suffered. I see a wonderful work with La Casa, and they're helping their people deal with the issues that are pertinent to their people.
 As a black man who's been here and know all the issues, I know the issues and I know them better than most because I'm African-American male as well. We have to listen to, I would say, to what I have to say on ways that we can make this better. Have we talked about how many of us have died because of all of our comorbidities that have been exposed during this pandemic? I love that we're dealing with children
 But we have age from 20 to 40 that is a lost generation, and they need to have help. My mother went back to school in her late 40s, and she changed my life because I saw how someone later in their years can influence me who didn't have a clue about what college was about. We have to focus on that group as well. I have heard nothing in this wonderful budget that we're putting together. I'm not discounting it.
 There's been nothing to focus on this group. This group that your children are going to look up to and is going to shape them. All right. We can do everything we want to do for them as children. But if we don't deal with the segment between 20 and 40 years old, we're still going to have another lost generation. And we should learn that from history. It's very apparent. So what I'm saying is before you close this budget out, you refocus on.
 on those things that we have learned through this pandemic. Streets will always be here, but we need people to walk the streets, people to work the streets. You have 30 seconds left. And in this 30 seconds, I think I can come back and tell you why I'm not in favor of it. Can I not? Didn't you say that, Sheila? Yes, Mr. Bucks. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. Thank you. Is there anyone else here wishing to speak in favor of Bill 118-21?
 I don't believe I see anyone online wishing to speak in favor. Is that true, Clerk Jones? Do you see the same thing? No, I don't see anyone online that's wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you so much for that. Is there anyone present then wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 118-21 that is present? Please state your name and address. Sure. Benicki 3822-21.
 South Bend, 3822 Ford Street. It's going to be a very unpopular comment that I'm about to make. I am in a bad mood. I came home. We'll get to that later. But if you guys are excited about this budget and happy and pleased, then you are so out of touch with the people you are supposed to represent. Earlier this year, you came to me.
 The city came to you guys with their hands out. They needed money for water and sewer. This cooperation agreement that is still costing us taxpayer monies, and yet they're giving themselves a 2% raise, and they're spending money here and spending money there.
 And as taxpayers, you pile it on and pile it on. You want us to be excited? Flatline the budget. Or better yet, cut it down instead of every year going up, up, up. You want us to be excited? Get rid of the wheel tax. It was only going to be there until the roads were fixed. And here we are 20 years later still fixing the same roads that it was designed to fix
 back then it's a once-in-a-lifetime you've gotten this money and yet you're still taxing the citizens you want us to get excited next year when the tax rates come out don't let Portage Township be the highest tax rate in the county and
 Drop the tax rates. Do what it takes. Tighten your belts. You want to help the citizens. You want them to be excited. You want them to be engaged. You've got people, 40% poverty rates, and all you do is spend, spend, spend. And you wonder why nobody's engaging. They can't afford to be engaged.
 Every time I say I'm coming here, it's like, why bother? They're not going to listen. They don't care. They've already made their minds up. And so I almost didn't come tonight for just that reason. But then something happened at home, and I said, no, I'm going. But this budget fiasco, and that's what it is, is a fiasco. When I talk to my neighbors, when I talk to my friends, when I talk to the people I know, it's like,
 How can they keep doing this to us, the citizens? We can't afford this. I look down the streets at the vacant houses. I look at the curbs crumbling. We're not benefiting. I don't know where this money's going. My neighbors don't see where it's going.
 We look at Western Avenue where the weeds are growing up through the bricks. Henry, they still haven't gotten the round out. Sheila, they still haven't cut your weeds down. Western Avenue is abysmal. The cement is cracking, and you want to just keep throwing more money because it's such a success? If that's a success and this budget's a success, maybe you need to reevaluate your priorities. Try living off $35,000 a year like most of your constituents do.
 Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Hello again, Mr. Buggs. If you could please restate your name and address for the record. David Buggs. I'm coming from the property at 3607 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46614. Now, I hope my attire doesn't create a barrier for you listening to the words that I'm saying. I don't normally dress like this. But as I said, I was in the doctor's office and I was listening to things. And this is how I object.
 There was a gentleman named Jordan, I saw his name come up on the screen. And Jordan asked a very good question. He asked, how is this money being funneled into programs? Now, I'm taking, I'm putting on, I'm a people, I'm a citizen of South Bend. I believe in opportunity for all people. But I want African-Americans to have their equal share of that opportunity.
 A question that wasn't answered, and it wasn't. Henry, I'm going to agree with you. We agree sometimes. And this question is, that question wasn't answered. Where can we say the money is going into the African-American community to affect issues immediately right now? So I'm going to tell you what I did.
 So I did. I purchased a building, $500,000, my wife's savings, mine. We put $250,000 in it so that we can change our society for African American people. I've done it. The way I've gotten help with my programming is through grants, through donors out of the state that I know. I need support for areas that specifically we have
 expertise in to change issues almost immediately in our city. We miss the opportunity. If the name Nexus Center doesn't come up in these meetings, you missed an opportunity to say that's where we're investing. Because each one of you have come to our building, except for two, I believe, and Henry, you're invited. That's an opportunity to take care of some of these issues. That question didn't go answered.
 That's why I came here and sit on the step until somebody opened the door today, because I think there should be something that addresses that. OK, and I've been blessed. I've been privileged to be among those who've been able to have a reasonable income. But with that comes the responsibility to do for others.
 And today I'm standing up for others. I put my money, my skin in the game. OK, not just financially, but my black skin, too. OK. And I I help all people, black, white, Hispanic. I help them all. But right now, no one can tell me who was the most affected by this pandemic.
 and what has been said in this chamber over this budget period to give specific aid immediately to them. I have a remedy, and I want you all to invest more into what I am saying and what I am doing, and I guarantee you at the end of the year we'll have a metric that we will be able to measure the success that we have –
 put into this city and into our African-American community. Once you help them, you're going to help the entire city. Nihilism results from taking the hope from people, from not being able to meet their basic needs. Nihilism, there's no hope for them. They feel that there's no hope. And I know it because I live it. All of my five brothers served in the military. They all passed away.
 because of drug addictions and things of that nature, because they didn't feel that it was no hope. They felt that there was no hope. But right now, this is, and I think this should be the theme for today. You do have 30 seconds. This should be the theme for today. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity. And with this once in a lifetime opportunity, you lead, you lead. Let's see what you do. Thank you for your comments, Mr. Boggs.
 Jason Benicki, 3822 Ford Street. I think anytime we want to celebrate less than 1% of the population being engaged in the budget process, that's a really sad statement. It's, you know, if there is not money put into the budget to modernize the communication between the city and its citizens,
 Then the budget's a failure. We've known for, I've been coming here seven years now, and we've known that communication is not getting to people where they are at. We're trying to make them engage with the city when the city needs to engage the citizens where and how they interact.
 You know, almost every citizen in the city has a device in their pocket that they can communicate with. Does the city have an SMS texting service to say, hey, we're having meetings here today if you're interested in engaging? No. Do we have an email list that says, hey, we've got a budget process. Would you like to be a part of that? No, we don't. It's 2021. It's beyond time to have those basic minimum communications available.
 with our citizens. And then we talk about generational things. I feel like every year we hear about some generational investment in something. Usually it means more debt on the books. And in this budget, it means 26 million in overspend. And they're hoping, hoping in three years to be able to balance the budget when they've shown exactly the opposite. We've gone from a pattern of probably about a 3 million deficit to almost 27, 26 to almost 27 now. We're heading in the wrong direction if we ever plan to balance that budget.
 And at the end of the day, some of it comes from doubling down on failing programs.
 Let's put more money into GVI. Why? It has shown over the last five years, no decrease in gun violence in the city. None whatsoever. We've gone the exact opposite direction. Why throw good money after a failing program? It is time to look at it line by line and actually evaluate what results we've seen from these investments. And when we see there's no tangible data to back up any improvement, and in some cases seen negative improvement,
 that it is time to end those investments, regroup, and then look at what we're investing. But to call this budget a success, to call overspending by over $26 million when you came out with your hands out and said, hey, we need more money again this year, to a group of citizens you know cannot afford it as a whole, to call that a success, boy, I have a very different definition of success than that. Thank you for your comments.
 Is there anyone else here wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 118-21? And I don't believe I see anyone online as well. No, there's no one else online. Okay, thank you for that, Clerk Jones, for that confirmation. So at this point, we are going to close the public hearing on Bill 118-21. Any council members wishing to make a statement on this bill?
 Yeah. Councilman Davis. Thank you. You're welcome. I actually feel the crunch and the pinch that our three speakers that spoke in opposition spoke. And I hate to say on because it sounds like I don't know what I have to say, but I do. They really illustrated what the everyday South Bend resident feels. They are everyday residents of South Bend residents.
 i'm everyday resident south bend i think everybody up here is everyday resident of south bend i think the frustration came in and it continues to come in is when those dollars that came in from the federal government i think i've sent the sheet out to a few of you on who's on council federal dollars and you said these things need to be spent this money needs to be spent on these things these things are wi-fi affordable houses such as blah blah blah
 And yeah, we are doing those things at a smaller percentage. The rest is reserved for other ideas, programs that may bring in money, may not bring in money. COVID did bring in a clear understanding and a picture that it's not going well. It's not going well for people of color. It really isn't. And if we miss this opportunity, I think the last time we had pandemic was 100 years ago. Maybe next 100 years we may figure this out, right?
 But I truly believe that, and I said this before, this budget needs to be slowed down. I told you guys a long time ago, I think Mr. Parker said, we're going to go do this as fast as we can. And I told him, don't, you know, don't do me any favors. I don't mind spending extra time on a budget. I've said this over and over again over the last several weeks.
 do not do me any favors. I spoke with Chair Warner about this, you know, I had, and there's always these questions, well, you can always send the questions in. Well, I mean, that's not it. And then it's always, well, Karen ran the meetings away this way. Well, I've never heard Council Member White say that she did. There was no agreement. So I really believe that we do have enough time to pump the brakes, figure out an alternative route to
 Um, what should be done for the residents of South Bend, even ones that are more negatively impacted by what has happened and what's going on. If we don't, it's going to get worse. We don't have enough police officers to manage the crime that is on the streets. It's clear. Uh, it takes a whole year for an officer to sign up and get training and get on the streets. We're not recruiting that fast and they're retiring faster than just that.
 So if our only way of dealing with crime is to put more office on the streets, we're in trouble. We are. Back in 2000, I think it was nine, I had a vision that we put together an opportunity for the city of South Bend to work with a school corporation. Got that turned into an ordinance.
 but the ordinance will help propel a real discussion of what we're going to do with the school corporation and see something i'm not saying see so i've been as over school corporation i said a real paradigm shift things that will bring you know uh something that made sense so like a school shuts down in a particular neighborhood then the school corporation says hey we're getting ready to shut down a school what are you going to do with that neighborhood you know kind of like a heads up
 we're dealing with the same people and the same people in those same environments or same kids go to those schools and um obviously destruction happens at their school closest those retails you lose population housing goes bad if you don't believe me go over there by kennedy and lasalle it's true we lost a lot still haven't heard any uh conversations about what we're going to do with jewelries them bricks are still out there drove past yesterday no one wants to clean that up
 you know and this is our budget process this is what we say we knew that's our moral document we're not talking about these things so you know i'm hard-pressed to even believe that this is going to work out for us the way that i think it should and i'm also um challenged with the idea that council members need a coalition build in order to get something on the budget no that's not the way i was taught i've been here for a long time even in the books it tells you
 that the administration has to sell the budget to the council the council doesn't have to coalition build to make sure something goes on goes into the budget i don't have to talk to sharon and kent about working together put something in the budget so that we can get something passed it's not my job my job is to make sure that the budget it will perform for the residents of south bend i don't know where that misunderstanding came in but i'm really really really not jaded i'm challenged
 by what is happening and I hope that we don't squander this opportunity. There is a lot of money that we got from the federal government and some more money coming in. I'm almost certain the infrastructure bill will pass. And if we do not do something that will be very impactful and will be economic multiplier for the residents in this city, especially the ones that are needed the most people that look just like me. Then on Judgment Day,
 we're gonna have a we're gonna have a heavy expense to pay okay thank you for your comments um any other council members wish to make a statement regarding the bill before us councilwoman hammond i'm just kind of carrying off of what councilman david said this was why i was so surprised because i feel like i still have so many concerns that have not been addressed
 I have asked for detailed information I have not yet received, and I'm nowhere in a position with this particular budget to be able to put forth a positive vote on this because I just don't have everything that I've requested. So I just needed to say that. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other council members wish to make a comment? Sure.
 Councilwoman Rachel Tomas Morgan. Thank you, Chair. I just have just a brief comment, mainly just a word of thanks to Mr. Parker and Mayor Mueller for this booklet, number one. And then, too, reminding us the numbers of resident engagement in all the various platforms.
 Recently, I did bring up the city survey that we did in 2020. I knew that was a poll survey, making sure that it was representative from across all six districts. And I recently revisited that survey.
 light of that conversation, so I appreciate you bringing up that feedback in this conversation. But especially also appreciate the slides where you pulled some of our Council comments and priorities and seeing where that aligns and and what I see just in in in that information is.
 some alignment there you know that says something um that's for sure it certainly um means we can continue to listen um and we will um and to to take your comment uh mayor mueller that um um it's up to us to to help residents understand what is in this budget um and and how it might um you
 help and answer some of the equity questions. So anyway, look forward to working together on that in the weeks to come. Thank you, Councilwoman Tomas-Morgan. And President White, you said you had wanted to make a comment. I'd like to say that, you know, some of the concerns that we've heard through the public hearing portion are those that,
 Definitely we will continue to discuss and and to ensure as best as possible that they are reflected as we move forward. I do know that many of us has visit the Mr Bucks Center and unfortunately that was not shared. But again, it is
 Initiative that can be a game changer for this community, but also for communities of color. I just want to ask the question since this is going to continue in the Council portion, do we have to take action?
 because this is just the public hearing portion it's just public hearing so there's no vote that's needed am i correct that's correct okay and so that we will continue to have discussions um that's what you know the budget process is uh discussions input and again this portion of this um for this particular bill was to have the public input thank you president white um
 Vice President McBride. Thank you so much. I just wanted to say thank you for the information in the presentation. And I do have to say that looking at information that's in the budget based on our council priorities and our neighborhood engagement that we've had, while the turnouts have could have been, should have been higher, and we all would like that. I did
 get a comparison of if you would and of course we always have work to do more work to do but I think that we are at a good start if you look at the Black Lives Matter black people's budget if you will I've compared the budget compared to the council's priorities and the administration's 2022 budget
 And there is a comparison chart of some of the things that was requested to be have done or implemented into the 2022 budget. And there's.
 four pages that I have of information that came out of that. And I know it's it's tonight is not the time to go through the whole list, but there are specific things that are targeting the minority community. And of course, we definitely need more engagement with that because we are still far behind. But for instance, one of the things that was asked
 to enact a livable wage ordinance to permanently tie initial wages to low-cost living matrix. And in this budget, it is increasing the minimum wage from 10.10 per hour to $12 an hour and $15 an hour for full-time.
 For instance, talking about transportation to and from work to Elkhart County, and it was discussed tonight about using rideshare through transport of increasing that ridership. And one of the suggestions about young people need good paying work and full-time employment. And there's a youth employment position funded from BPA for $480,000 to set aside for workforce development programming.
 And I mean, the list goes on and on, and I think it may be helpful for this list to be made public or also to be given out if the council do not have the side by side view. And I think from there we can continue to build on. And like I said, it's not a lot of time, but there are four pages here that directly impact what was presented or proposed.
 by the black people's budget versus what the city council from two years ago that went out to the residential neighborhoods proposed and what the council's priorities are versus what is proposed in the budget. So I think that is information that should be shared and information that we definitely need to talk about as a council and how we can build upon that and move forward. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilwoman McBride, Vice President McBride, for your comments on that. I think at this point, then, we would just move to entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Move. Second. Okay. It has been seconded and moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed?
 It's all yours, President. This portion of the council meeting is where the Common Council will hear bills that have been filed and heard on a committee of the whole. I would like to entertain a motion to go directly to the resolutions portion and then to circle back
 to the third readings because you know we have two of our guests who are here and could be more to speak on resolutions and i really uh sincerely appreciate you still being with us uh um kind of knew that this was going to be a long meeting but uh again um not this long so i would like to entertain a motion okay second we have a motion it's been seconded uh i think i
 yes clerk jones will you please call the roll council member niskowski aye council member tomas morgan hi council member hammond aye vice president mcbride aye council member davis
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Thank you so much, Council Members, and we'll now go directly to our resolution portion. Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 21-16? Resolution 21-16? 46. 46. I tear my eyes at it. 46.
 21-46, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving the issuance of scrap metal junk dealers recycling operation licenses for calendar year 2021, pursuant to section 4-51 of the South Bend Municipal Code. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Health and Public Safety? Yes.
 He's not here, but as Vice Chair, I will tell you that this was heard in health and public safety and comes forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. We do have a presenter that is before us. We do ask that you state your name and address and give us a brief overview of Resolution 21-46.
 Gabriel Murray offices in the South Bend City Clerk's Office. Council, thank you for your time. Happy to report that we have six scrap metal applications. If you look at the packet that I sent you all, the first page is the application. The second page is the site plan and the third portion of that packet is the recommendations from city departments, including code enforcement, fire and police departments.
 if you look on the first page the recommendations are on the bottom and so i'm happy to report all the scrap metal applications have been approved and i'm yes they've all been approved do you have any additional comments i have no additional comments council members do you have any questions that you would like to ask the petitioner regarding resolution 2146 seeing now we'll now move to the public hearing portion
 Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in favor of this resolution? There is no one online waiting to speak in favor of this resolution. Is there anyone waiting to speak in opposition? There is no one waiting to speak in opposition as well. Thank you. Council members, I would like to entertain a motion at this time. Move for passage. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll?
 Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morris. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution 21-46 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 21-47.
 2147, a joint resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend and the School Board of the School Corporation of South Bend memorializing their efforts and intents to form a cooperative educational committee with the mission of working together for the betterment of our children, our schools, and our city. Thank you. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, President White, this came before the Community Relations Committee and comes to us this evening with a favorable recommendation.
 now I would like to ask the sponsor uh to state your name and address and to give us a brief overview of the joint resolution that is before this Council thank you President white uh Troy Warner Common Council with offices in this building like to come up President and Ella so uh this kind of uh started in 2019 uh President White and I had a discussion that there had never been a joint meeting of the full bodies of the
 South Bend Common Council and the South Bend School Board. So in January of 2020, three weeks before everything shut down due to COVID, we had our first joint meeting and this document was kind of an offshoot of that meeting.
 Um, it got kind of delayed a little bit because of COVID and then we we picked up the progress of making this document in this joint resolution. I want to thank Councilmember Hammond for then hosting a second meeting through the Community Relations Committee in June of 2017 in which we had a public meeting to go through this joint resolution. The uh,
 The joint resolution establishes a joint committee made up of individuals from the city, the schools and the community, the purpose of which is to. Purpose of which is to. To.
 advise and inform the council the school board the mayor and the school superintendent the committee would exist of 14 members from the community to members of the school board two members of the uh common council representative of the mayor's office and representative of the school superintendent's office um i i
 Thank Mr. Manila and thank Dr. Warren and Stephanie Ball for their assistance on this document and this resolution. And the school board passes resolution on the 20th. And now this resolution is before us, President Ella.
 Thank you, Councilman Warner. I just want to say your meetings might be longer than ours, but I'm enjoying it. I'm enjoying the budget process. From the other side.
 And I almost spoke a couple times tonight, but I thought I'd refrain from that. First of all, I just want to say good evening. Thank you. Thank you, President White. Thank you, Councilman Warner and all the members of the council. Mr. Mayor, it's great to be here. It's great that we finally seem to be approaching the finish line with this. And also to all the work that Councilman Warner did. Also, Dr. Warren put in Yeoman's work as well on this.
 My name is John Inella. I'm currently serving as the President of the Board of Trustees for the South Bend Community School Corporation, 215 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. Our two bodies first met jointly back in February of 2020.
 And little did we know how much the world would change only a few weeks after that. So here we are, 19 months later, and it's hard to describe what we've been through as a country, as a society, and as a community. These tumultuous times only reinforce the importance of us working together.
 Last Monday, the South Bend School Board voted to approve the joint resolution that is before you this evening. And we are here tonight asking you to approve the joint resolution. Our fates are intertwined for better or worse. As I've sat here this evening listening, I made a list of things that came up.
 Pre-K, transport, bus driver shortage, after school programs, United Way, Boys and Girls Club, housing, homelessness, circuit breaker, COVID relief funds. I mean, it could go on and on and on. The point is we need to be working together. This is a simple resolution that demonstrates we understand there is a brighter future.
 when we work together. Our students, our families, our residents, our community needs us to work together, and frankly, they expect us to. This is only a first step, but an important step for a better South Bend. We hope you approve this resolution tonight
 so we can get to work thank you thank you president now thank you very much so the uh co-sponsors of the bill include uh president white uh vice president mcbride council member lee council member ned skotsky council member thomas morgan and council member hammond
 Any of the co-sponsors wish to make a statement? We'll start with President, the always eloquent President White. No, I can say that I had the opportunity to go to the school board meeting and offer comments at that time. I'm very grateful that we are at this point and that this joint resolution is before the council. And your comments were much better than mine. I know. Thank you.
 Just thank everyone for their efforts and Councilwoman Hammond for hosting these two, one, the joint resolution, but also the meetings that we held, basically the one at Century Center. So thank you as well. I guess I would just like to say thank you for all your work and efforts on this. 19 months is quite a long time when you've taken time
 Think about, well, when you think about everything that's happened during that time and the things that it stopped and the progress and the people that it's hurt along the way.
 But this resolution in itself is such a positive step for our community, and I agree with you that people expect us to work together, and they expect us to be effective and for us to think about the city, about our residents, and about our children. Because at the end of the day, it should always be about your children because they're the ones who's going to be taking all of our seats at some point. So thank you, Councilmember. Thank you, Councilmember.
 Hammond and Warner and President Inella for all your work. I believe this was the 11th revision, I was told, before you finally got to this resolution. So great job. And I totally support the resolution. Thank you. I would just like to say, again, a thriving city got to have great schools. And we are the people who have been put in place through the school board, Common Council,
 to provide leadership for the next generation. And again, the things that we do will affect many generations to come. So this resolution is a great starting point. It's a lot of great things in it, a lot of great nuggets. And if we apply all of the things in this resolution, then not only will our schools be better, but our city will be better and our children will be better.
 And the children is a fountain of youth. When we invest in them, we live forever. Any other comments? I'll just say thank you for being a co-sponsor as well. And it's really poignant, the points that you made, Mr. Anella, about how we intertwine and the same issues that we're discussing tonight are the same issues you guys face. And so that is very...
 encouraging and enlightening that we should be working together because we have the same residents, parents, children, and it's important for us working together and not in silos. So I'm excited about us moving forward as a community. Council members, besides the co-sponsors, do you have... I'm the only one. Oh, if I may...
 I just want to add, I just, uh, everyone has already, um, said all the important things. I, I, I do just want to lift up additional thanks to all the, that to the members of the drafting committee. I mean, it is no small task to get these words on this page and to finalize it and to pass two bodies. I mean, that's, that's an incredible feat. So, um, thank you to those in our council. It's, it's council member Warner. Um, and, uh,
 so um yeah this is a a great first step as as you said um president anella um let's get to work and then councilman davis thank you um a couple pieces of the resolution if i may that i find um
 really important is that the joint educational Cooperate cooperative committee should be a driving force of partnership and cooperation between the school board the council the superintendent the mayor and the community it commits to public meetings with public input and it commits to the council and the school board meeting and
 no less than once a year in a joint meeting. Those are really important pieces for us to look forward to and to recognize these significant change that we can bring about in working together. And thank you for being here this evening, Mr. Nella. Yeah, I looked at that resolution. I think that public needs to be in front of schools on there
 I've noticed that on that piece of work. That was one of the things that I really had an issue with because, Mr. Anela, you're over at Public School Corporation, right? And I think that what we do over here is public dollars as well, public government, local government. So I think it needs to be public schools because we need to name public schools. We have parochial schools here. We have charter schools here. We have independent schools here.
 So we need to talk about public schools because that's what we were talking about. So I don't know. I'm going to offer that as a motion sometime soon. But I think that that definitely needs to be in there because we're talking about public schools. Public schools are under attack by the charter school system. So we need to have a direct attention. It needs to be intentional. Public schools, just not schools. Thank you. I'm not done. Okay. Sorry.
 The other thing that I wanted to say as well is that this was an ordinance that was put through in 2009. It offered this Common Council of the City of South Bend to the school corporation. I don't know where, how something so simple and so needed became so much of a big deal that where we have to create some type of community committee to assess.
 These things that are undefined. Look, I'm not against it clearly because I set the baseline for the foundation. But I don't want us to be become so, so smart that we take this and we mold into something that is going to be nothing.
 We tend to do that as human beings. We create more bureaucracy, more departments. We create more and more and more because we really have to have the best of people at the table. But sometimes it really just takes something really small and simple and just keep it that way so it can actually work for the betterment for us all. But I want to make a motion, and I really hate that that wasn't on the resolution as a co-sponsor, Troy.
 that that wasn't i just thought that that was poor taste but you win that one but um i make a motion that we add public school make that motion after i do public hearing okay i'm sorry no problem no problem so we're not going to go to the public hearing portion again thank you president anello um clerk jones is there anyone waiting to speak in favor of uh resolution 21-17
 There's no one online waiting to speak in support of resolution. Is there anyone online wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one online wishing to speak in opposition as well. Is there anyone in the audience that wish to speak in support of resolution 2147?
 Anyone wishing to speak in opposition? The public hearing portion is now closed. Council Member Davis. Yeah, I'd just like to make a motion that we add public in front of schools on that document as a final way of expressing our intentions. So there is a motion to add to the language the word public. Is there a second to that motion?
 exactly where are we adding the way here if you look at it says uh joint resolution the common council the city of South Bend the school board of the school corporation of South Bend so the word public distinguished you know I'll second that okay we have a motion it's been seconded Claire Jones will you please call the roll yes Council Council member Thomas Morgan I'm sorry are we is there any discussion on this or
 No, she called it, bro. Point of order. I believe when there's a motion and a second, the table gets to open it up for discussion. Correct. So it's open for discussion? Yes. Okay. We're now open for discussion, council members. My question is if we do add this, does it change the documents or does it have to go back to the school? Oh, no. No. Okay.
 attorney it is if we're in congress so i'm just asking so i want some clarity if we were to add the word public would it have to go back to the school board attorney palmer if it's a joint motion it would be a joint resolution okay thank you okay okay
 Yeah, but look, sir, I just said, but this is what I'm saying. I think that we need to be sensitive to this. I'm a part of this conversation a lot. My sister works over in Chicago and she's the vice president of Teachers Union. I hear this conversation nationally. I have a good friend that's in Compton, California, who's the vice president of their school corporation board.
 If we do not intentionally talk about public school policy, public schools funds, and name it as public, we get into a whole nother conversation when you start listing schools because all schools become a part of that conversation. So we have to be very clear about public schools versus parochial, charter, and whatever school that may be out there. We can laugh about it. We can kid about it if you want to, but that's the truth.
 And I would think that you would probably be in support of something like that, given your role at the South Bend School Corporation, Public School Corporation. The issue that is before us at this point in terms of the motion, the recommendation, is that because this was a joint resolution and the school corporation passed the joint resolution, Attorney Palmer at this point would, again, as I asked the question, would they have to go back?
 I believe they would. Okay. Okay. So I understand. You don't want them to do that? I understand Councilman Davis's desire, but I do not want to put us in a position where we're having to send that back. So I'd like to retract my second. Okay. So the motion has been made and the second has made as well, but it has been retracted.
 I believe that that whole issue, once the committee has opportunity to have the discussion, that, you know, if they needed to add the word public, South Bend Public School Corporation, that could come at that time. Mm-hmm. That's right. School board. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay.
 But that's not how I read it. I know there was missing in there, but you know, you guys have it. Y'all win. Okay. Again, I would now entertain a motion regarding the joint resolution 2147. I'd like to move for passage. Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye.
 left left okay council member davis nay council member lee aye council member warner aye council member nizgatsky aye president white aye six six eyes resolution 21-47 has been adopted clerk jones will you please read resolution 21-49
 2149, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving the interlocal agreement for the operation of a consolidated public safety answering point in St. Joseph County, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report? This is from...
 Health and Public Safety. Yes, this bill came out of Health and Public Safety with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. We have Attorney Pete Osteen, all that is before us. I did ask him to come and to give a brief overview of...
 of resolution 2149 and to address any questions that the council may have i would like to state that this resolution as well as the other resolutions and the bills they were heard during the committee meetings this uh afternoon as well thank you and good evening council president white and the rest of the council members and peace be with you after this long meeting here
 i did learn a new word tonight operationalize thank you mr parker so the interlocal agreement that's before you uh is an amendment of an agreement that was adopted back in 2014 in connection with the operation of the 911 center the combined 911 center the reason that an amended interlocal is before you is because the funding mechanism for the uh
 9-1-1 center has been changed. That was changed by the votes of the City of Mishawaka and the St. Joseph County Council, which is now going to have the funding occur by local income tax dollars. And so the interlocal agreement now has a function of providing for backup funding for that. The
 Other reason that it's being done is to also encourage, and the County Council's on board with this, is amending the County Council ordinance, which created the consortium for the 911 Center to include council members on the executive board of that center. And I heard loud and clear today that I think it sounds like the preference is for two from this council, and I will certainly communicate that to our County Council at tomorrow night's committee meeting.
 The funding, the way that would work on the new interlocal is that first step is to determine if the local income tax collected is enough to fund the budget. If it is, there is no backup funding. Okay.
 If there's a need for backup funding, then the formula for backup funding has been changed to have it based on 75% from call volume and 25% from the net assessed value. And if there's any excess funding, it will be used to maintain cash reserves, pay off debt, and be returned in proportion as it was received to the entities that are part of the agreement. And those are the highlights. Thanks.
 Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions that you would like to ask of Attorney Onestino? Any questions? Then I'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting online to speak in support of Resolution 2149?
 There is no one from the public waiting on lines to speak in support of Resolution 2149. Is there anyone online wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one online wishing to speak in opposition as well. Is there anyone in the audience wishing to speak in support of Resolution 49? No.
 Anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? The public hearing portion is now closed. Council members, are there any comments that you would like to make prior to me entertaining the motion? Any comments from council members? Seeing none, I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 21-49, move for passage. Very good. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll?
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Misgawski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Resolution has been adopted. We'll now go back to Bill's third reading.
 This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and actions taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, would you please give substitute bill 103-21 a third reading? 103-21.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to make miscellaneous changes for clarification and consistency to simplify development process.
 I would like to note that this bill has already been accepted as a substitute during the Committee of the Whole. Councilwoman Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 103-21? Yes, President White. Substitute Bill 103-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 103-21.
 Move for passage. Second. We have a motion, and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes.
 SUBSTITUTE BILL 103-21 HAS BEEN PASSED. CLERK JONES, WOULD YOU PLEASE READ BILL 114-21 AND GIVE IT A THIRD READING? 114-21, THIRD READING ON AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH BAN, INIANA, AMENDING CHAPTER 21 OF THE SOUTH BAN MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
 Urban Neighborhood, 3rd District, UF Urban Neighborhood, Flex District, NC Neighborhood, Central District, and C Commercial District.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Niskoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole in regards to Bill 11421? Yes, President White. Bill 114-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 11421. To move for passage? Second. We have a motion, and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Lee? Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Nesgatski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 114-21 has passed. Clerk Jones will now ask you to read Bill 115-21.
 and give it a third reading 115 21 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the city of south bend indiana for the year 2021. thank you councilwoman niskowski is there a recommendation from the committee of the whole regarding bill 115-21
 Yes, President White. Bill 115-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. We'll now entertain a motion regarding this bill. Move for passage. Second. We have a motion. It's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 115-21 has passed. We'll now move to Bill 116-21.
 And this has been accepted as a substitute during the Committee of the Whole. So, Clerk Jones, will you please give Substitute Bill 116-21 a third reading? 11621, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2021.
 194,373 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 201, 920,041 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund number 202, 40,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuum Education Fund number 220, 235,000 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 202, and 235,000 from the Parks
 from the Code Enforcement Fund, number 230, $484,544 from the COVID-19 Response Fund, number 264. Are you reading? I think that's the rule. Clerk Jones, are you reading the right? Is that 1621? The substitute bill. When I took out the...
 It's in. Yeah, this. That's right. Okay. Thank you. Okay. That again. Okay. I'm sorry. No problem. 1-16-21. Third reading of an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2021. This is the substitute.
 No problem. That's calm. That's late. Third reading of an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2021.
 of $8,300,000 from the General Fund No. 101, $194,373 from the Parks and Recreation Fund No. 201, $920,041 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund No. 202,
 $40,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, number 220. $235,000 from the Code Enforcement Fund, number 230. $1,500,000 from the American Rescue Plan Fund, number 263. $484,544 from the COVID-19 Response Fund, number 264. $210,000 from the Fire Department Capital Fund, number 287.
 $1,798,000 from the Local Income Tax Certified Shares Fund, number 404, $56,500 from the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund, number 408, and $758,270 from the Solid Waste Capital Fund, number 611. Thank you, Clerk Jones. I will now take a motion regarding Substitute Bill 116-21.
 I move for passage. Second. Sir Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Without the guarantee, nay. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Nay. Council Member Lee? Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Six ayes. Substitute Bill 116-21 has passed. We're now moving to Bill's first reading. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 119-21 a first reading.
 1-19-21 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana reaffirming ordinance number 10736-20 and fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the south bend police department for calendar year 2022. we'd like to entertain a motion that this bill be sent to personnel and finance
 for third reading vote at the full council level on 10-11-2021. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, you please call the roll. Council Member Nieskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Will you now give first reading to Bill 120-21? Bill 120-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar years 2022, 2023, and 2024.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion that Bill 120-21 be sent to the Personnel and Finance Committee, set for third reading, and vote at the full council on October the 11th, 2021. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Second.
 Now, Vice President McBride. I. Councilmember Davis. I. Councilmember Lee. I. Councilmember Warner. I. Councilmember Neskowski. I. President White. I. Eight ayes. Will you now give a first reading to Bill 121 dash 21.
 121 21 first reading on an ordinance fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non bargaining employees of executive departments of the city of south indiana for the calendar year
 I will entertain a motion that Bill 121-21 be sent to the Personnel and Finance Committee and public hearing at the council level for 10-11-2021. So moved. Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Hammond.
 Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Nesgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you now give first reading to Bill 122-21?
 122 21 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Indiana, setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2022. I'll entertain a motion to send this bill to personnel and finance committee and public hearing at the council level for October 11 2021. No moves. So good. Please call the roll.
 vice president mcbride and council member davis hi council member lee all right council member warner hi council member nisgatsky aye council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond aye president white aye eight eyes thank you we'll now move to unfinished business council members is there any unfinished business at this time
 Seeing none, I will now go to new business. Is there any new business? Seeing none, we'll now move to the privilege of the floor. Is there anyone present wishing to speak on the privilege of the floor? We do ask that you state your name and the address and you have three minutes to share your concerns. Sharon Bonicki, 3822 Ford Street.
 I got home from work today. I was going to sit home and relax, but no. Bob the Builder is still building. He is now building his third addition to the red tag second edition that is built to the first red tagged edition. And all I keep hearing is there's nothing we can do. They're taking him to court for fines for the first edition, but then I have to keep calling him and they'll come out. They'll tell him to cease and desist.
 But nothing's going to happen. He's just going to keep building and building. And they'll take him to court. He never shows up to court. He owes the city already, what, $3,500 from two years ago from animal control for dogs that he doesn't have. And he's now down to two dogs that he doesn't have because he's now on the list to never legally own a pet. But he still has them.
 The quality in the neighborhood, the quality of life is terrible. I got neighbors, you know, all around me. Is he going to quit hammering? When's he going to quit hammering? Nine o'clock at night. It's dark. He's out hammering. He's out banging. Kid behind me is now working from home, but he's got to listen to the banging and hammering and noise going on all day long.
 the city's all bark, no bite. Something's got to give here. I mean, why make ordinances and say we're going to do things and anybody can do what they want, when they want, how they want? That's what's got me really irritated because there is no peace and quiet in my neighborhood or at home. On another side note, I was going through the packet tonight and I noticed that on the scrap metal dealer's paperwork...
 There was an application, and whoever sent in part of it redacted the guy's social security number and date of birth. But then on the next page, for all the world to see is the guy's driver's license with his name and address and date of birth, and nothing's redacted. I don't know. If I was a citizen, I'd probably be upset that all this was out there. You might want to look into a procedure for that.
 Thank you. Thank you as well. And I do know that you have had a conversation with the apostle woman, Kosky, and we clearly understand that that is a problem. We do what we can on our end to address that as well. Thank you. You got to give.
 State your name and address. You have three minutes. Jason Benicki, 3822 Ford Street. So work had kept me away for about two years. And boy, I wish things had changed a lot in two years. But sadly, a lot of things are the same two years that I've been gone for the seven years I've been coming here. Clerk's office, still a mess.
 Unfortunately, the tribunes covered that at length. We still can't decipher the difference between needs and wants when we go to spend money. Sure, people want a nice rec center, but we really need curbs, sidewalks, lights. We need neighborhoods that are safe and able for people to participate in.
 You know, we want a lot of things, but we need affordable situation for residents. Instead of raising rates every time we turn around. We are the most expensive city to live in around here. And unfortunately, almost everybody up there has...
 two plus streams of government income. So they forget what it's like for the regular citizen who has one stream of income when it's an extra $15 a month here. Oh, schools want a little bit more tax money. We're going to support that, but hey, that's a little more money out of your pocket here. Oh, you know what? We need to raise money for the trash rates. Here's a little bit more here.
 We always seem to just take, take, take. Nobody sits here and says, hey, why are we giving out raises? Why are we, you know, Henry hit a nail on the head earlier. You know, we keep adding departments and departments and departments. At some point, we need to stop adding more departments because all that creates is more department heads, but not actually more work getting done in the neighborhoods, not more work getting done out in the city. At some point, like I said, we have to look at the money we're spending, seeing if we're getting any ROI.
 At all before we allocate more and more and more. So like I said, it's been two years I've been gone, but like she said, I'm working from home now. I get off at seven o'clock at the latest every day. Expect to see me every two weeks again. Reminding you what you need to do for the citizens of this city, where we need to improve. Because again, seven years of this. I'm not stopping today. I'm not stopping tomorrow. I've got a four year old nephew who lives in this city every day. And I want to make this city a better place for him. Not for me, but for him.
 Seeing no one else that's wishing to speak on the privilege of floor, public hearing portion is now closed. And seeing that there's no other business, we stand adjourned. Thank you, council members. I know this was a long meeting.