Good evening. I would like to call Monday, September 26th, Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you'd like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input,
 on a certain bill, again, please insert your name and your address in the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. Be sure to put whether you're in favor or in opposition of the bill. You will be given five minutes to speak during the public input.
 For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time, and the council president will call on you. And again, you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Please submit your name and your address. And please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you so much. I would like to state that.
 A disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in an individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. At this time, we would like to welcome Evangelist Mary Winters of Pentecostal Cathedral Church of God of Christ Church. Would you please come up and provide the invocation for us this evening and welcome? Thank you.
 Would you like to state your name and address, please? Mary Winters, 232 Westwood Lane, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Head bow, please. Almighty God, we thank you for this day, this time, this hour which you have given each one of us to be able to say thank you for another day. We thank you for life, health, and strength given to us daily.
 We thank you, Father, for the ability you give each one of us to perform our daily activities with wisdom, knowledge and understanding. We thank you for giving us our daily bread. We ask now that you forgive us of our trespasses as we forgive those that trespass against us.
 It is our prayer that you save the unsaved and that all backsliders return back to you. We pray that no one perish. We need your help now. Help your children that are in harm's way. All that are downtrodden, those that are depressed, deliver us from the evil one. He that is trying to kill, steal, and destroy. He who makes this a cruel and perverse world in which to live.
 We invite you into this room. You are welcome here tonight. I ask that you bless this great city of South Bend and show favor to each person serving on the South Bend Common Council. Father bless Common Council member Pastor Kenneth Lee, Brother Henry Davis, Sister Sharon McBride,
 Brother Troy Warner. Brother Eli Wax. Sister Sheila Nagowski. Sister Karen White. Sister Rachel Thomas Morgan. Sister Lori K. Hammond. We also ask that you bless and show favor to each city clerk. Sister Don Jones. Sister Victoria Trujillo. Brother Kenneth Hardy. Brother Justin Lipa.
 Sister Shayla Kimbreu, surround each one of them and their families with your love and protection. Continue to be with them, giving them the spiritual guidance and ability to reason together always with love, always making the right decisions, not only in this meeting, but in future meetings to come, which involve this great city in which we live.
 We thank you, almighty God, in advance for hearing our prayer and granting our petition on this night. Be with us all now and forever in the name of the father and the son and the Holy Spirit. Let us all say amen. Amen. Thank you so much. At this time, may we stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Forgot it, thank you. Thank you so much. Clerk Jones, would you call the roll please? Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present.
 Council member White. Present. Council member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council member Hammond. Present. Vice president Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Seven present. Thank you. Thank you so much. There are no reports from the subcommittee and for special business, I have a resolution by the common council.
 of the city of South Bend commemorating the week of September 9th through the 18th as Welcoming Week in South Bend, Indiana, and I am the sponsor of that resolution. South Bend was recently certified as a Welcoming Week city. This means that South Bend has achieved the seven framework categories of a welcoming standard which define truly welcoming places,
 government leadership, equitable access, civic engagement, connected communities, education, economic development, and safe communities. This special resolution commemorates the city's achievements and joins the mayor's recent proclamation claiming calling on the people of South Bend to join together to build stronger communities across our diverse backgrounds. I'll read the resolution. Bill number 2244.
 Whereas a welcoming week began in 2012 in 18 states and has now expanded into a global movement. And whereas over six million people have contributed stories of welcome experiences of welcoming week events and commitments to be a part of fostering belonging for all. And whereas welcoming week enables organizations and communities to bring together neighbors of all backgrounds.
 to build strong connections and affirm the importance of welcoming and inclusive places in achieving the common good. And whereas the seven framework categories of a welcoming standard which define truly welcoming places are government leadership, equitable access, civic engagement, connected communities, education, economic development, and safe communities. And whereas the city of South Bend was recently certified as a welcoming weak city,
 And whereas the 2020 theme of Welcoming Week is where we belong, and whereas this theme aims to spark individual reflection on how and why belonging occurs and ways we can break barriers so that cities can foster belonging for all, including immigrants and refugees.
 And whereas South Bend's strong connections with religious, medical, and educational institutions provide a unique opportunity to be welcoming not only to its own residents, but also to all others who visit and sometimes stay in our community. And whereas on September 15, 2022, Mayor James Mueller issued a city proclamation recognizing Welcoming Week and calling on the people of South Bend to join together to build stronger communities across our diverse backgrounds.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1, the South Bend Common Council proudly commemorates South Bend's certification as a welcoming city because the Council recognizes that our community becomes better for all as diversity and inclusiveness grows. Section 2, the Common Council joins with the Mayor in calling for residents to build communities where every resident is given the opportunity to contribute.
 In doing so, South Bend will continue on the path to being a more vibrant and prosperous community. This resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the mayor. At this time, I would open it up for comments to the council if you have any input for the resolution. Councilor Tomar. President Brett. Yes. Thank you. I just want to thank you for bringing this special resolution to us on council. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Councilor Lee. Again, this is a great achievement for our community to be recognized as a welcoming week city. And so thank you, President, for bringing this forward and and thank you for your leadership on it.
 Thank you. Councilor White. Yes, I would just like to thank our president, President Sharon McBride, for bringing forth this special proclamation and really support the vision. But most importantly, that our city is a welcoming city for all of our residents. Thank you so much. With that being said, we will move further on.
 There are no city reports at this time. So now I would like to entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded by vote of acclamation. All those in favor? Aye. Any nays? Motion carries. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading in public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given.
 In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. And I would like to let people know that if you came for Bill 134-21, it has been tabled.
 If you came for bill 30-22, it has been tabled. Do I need to give the date? Yes. Okay. 10-24. 10-24 for both of those. And for bill 41-22, it has been withdrawn. By the petitioner. By the petitioner. So, Clerk Jones, will you give bill 44-22 a second reading? Yes, sir.
 4422, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, street vacation, a portion of the LaSalle Avenue connector line north of Colfax Avenue and west of the east line of the city cemetery extended south to Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 4222 was given a favorable recommendation this afternoon in the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee.
 And as a petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Thank you. Mike Danch from Danch, Harner & Associates, 1643 Commerce Drive here in South Bend, representing the city of South Bend. What the request is for is for a partial vacation for what's called LaSalle Connector.
 It's where LaSalle Connector comes into Colfax Avenue. There was a diagram that was made part of your packet for giving you the aerial photos so you could see that portion that we're talking about. Mainly it's on the west side of LaSalle Connector. It's right there where the city cemetery is, where the city had just done some improvements.
 on the north side of Colfax between Elm and the connector itself. What we're attempting to do is take that portion and vacate it. It's not needed for a public right away at the present time. The city already owns some additional property there to the east. What we're asking council to do is to vacate that portion so that the new parking lot that has been put in on the east side of the cemetery area will actually fall on a new lot.
 What we'll end up doing, assuming the council will approve the vacation this evening, is that we'll submit a minor subdivision for approval through the community investment and the city plan commission for making a new lot for that area. And it'll actually designate what the new right-of-ways will look like. If you have any questions for me, I'd be glad to answer them. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? No questions? All right. Okay, thank you.
 We got to go to the public, right? At this time, we want to go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 44-22? I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Okay, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing
 on bill 44-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding bill 44-22. I'll make a motion to send bill 44-22 to the regular council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 All right, there's a motion and second. Clerk Jones, can we do by acclamation? All in favor, say aye. No, it has to be a roll call. It has to be a roll call. We have to have a roll call vote on legislation. Yep, I'm sorry. All right. I'm sorry. Blame it on President McBride. I looked at her. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 44-22 will be sent to the full council with the favor of recommendation. Thank you. All right. Clerk Jones, would you give 45-22 a second reading?
 4522, public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the city of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2022. All right, is there a committee report? Yes, there is chair. That was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and it was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. Is the petitioner present?
 and i ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us all right thank you councilmember lee uh good evening council members dan parker city controller my office is on the 12th floor of this building uh
 This bill 45-22 is the first of our normal quarterly budget adjustment bills. So as always, the first one is our budget transfers bill. The transfers requested here don't increase or decrease the overall budget for the city. Rather, they either transfer between different divisions within the same department or.
 or between different cost categories within the same department. So personnel, the supplies, services, and capital would be the four cost categories. As is usual during the third quarter budget transfers, because so many of us are thinking about 2023 budget, there's not many on this year's or on this quarter's budget transfers list, but I am happy to talk about any of the ones that are on there if there are any questions. Council members, do you have any questions?
 All right, at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 45-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 45-22. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of 45-22? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 45-22 as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 45-22 is now closed.
 Council members, would you like to make statements regarding Bill 45-22? Seeing that there are none, I will now entertain a motion. I'll make a motion that Bill 44-20. 45. 45, I'm sorry, dash 22 be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'll second. All right, there's a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Thank you.
 Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskotsky? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 45-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 46-22 a second reading?
 4622 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2022 of 110 000 from the general fund number 101 3 million 348 550 from the dci federal grant fund number two
 12, 25,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, number 220. 475,000 from the NVH Restricted Fund, number 266. 10,000 from the Indiana River Rescue Fund, number 296.
 291. 161,819 from the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund, number 408. 332,253 from the Urban Development Action Fund and Action Grant Fund, number 410.
 $314,270 from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area Fund, number 413. $1,100,000 from the Water Works Operations, number 620. $240,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund, number 640. $785,000 from the Sewage Works Operating Fund, number 651. And $8,000 from the Fire Pension Fund, number 701.
 Clerk Jones, I think that the Sewer Works Operating Fund, you said 651 is 641. Yes, 641. All right, just for the record. All right, is there a petitioner present? Wait, is there a commuter? It's a committee report. Yes. Yes, Chair, Bill 4622 was heard in personal and finance today, and it was sent to the committee of the whole with a favorable recommendation.
 All right, is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Yes, sir. Dan Parker, city controller, office on the 12th floor of this building. So this is the second of the quarterly budget adjustment bills for Q3. And this one is the one that requests the appropriation of additional funds for unforeseen expenses. As always, it's divided into a few categories. The biggest ones here are unanticipated expenses and supported by new revenue. So there is quite a few additional expenses on there. The first one is the unanticipated
 particularly in the areas of water, wastewater, and a little bit for fire as well, that were just unforeseen when we were putting together the 2022 budget. Nobody really expected inflation to be at the levels that we're seeing. And so things are just costing more than what we put in the budget. And so those requests just reflect the increased operating costs. No real changes, just cost us more money to actually operate the utilities especially.
 The other large item on this appropriation request is in the supported by new revenue category. There's about $3.5 million appropriation request for the lead grant that the city recently received. During committee, Council Member Morgan, Thomas Morgan, you asked the period of performance for this. I did find that out. It's July 1st of 2022 through January 1st of 2026. So it's three and a half years rather than the four that I said in committee.
 So, with that, I am happy to answer any questions on those items or on any of the other appropriation requests. Council members, do you have any questions? All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 46-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 46-22.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 46-22? There is no one from the public wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 46-22. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 46-22 is now closed. Council members, does anyone want to make any statement regarding Bill 46-22? If not, I'll entertain a motion.
 I'd like to move that we send bill number 46-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Okay.
 Bill number 46-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right, Clerk Jones, let's read, give 47-22 a second reading. 47-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending tipping and loading charges for yard waste customer within two sections of Chapter 16, Article 4 of the South Bend Municipal Code. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, there is chair. 4722 was heard in personal and finance today and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening, Council Members. My name is Jiten Kane, Deputy Public Works Director for the City with offices on the 13th floor of this building. I will be presenting this bill to you.
 About 4 changes we are recommending to the organic resources facility that is operated and managed by the public works department. The organic resources facility processes yard waste that is brought in by the city's yard waste program and also by residents who can bring.
 yard waste in themselves. The changes today only apply to the part where residents can bring yard waste in themselves. This does not impact the city's bin pickup program, which is a weekly pickup and is an opt-in program. The four changes we'd like to make are, first, we'd like to remove language in the ordinance that currently restricts
 only restricts the outside city residents from being in yard waste. Our practice has been to allow residents from the city and outside the city limits to bring in waste, but this change was not made and so we're making that change today.
 The second change is to add a fee for outside city customers. The current fee for inside city customers who do bring in yard waste is $3.65 per cubic yard. For outside city customers, we recommend a fee of $11 per cubic yard, which is based on the cost of service.
 The next change is regarding loading of yard waste or compost material. If residents pick up the material on their own, there is no fee. However, if they utilize city equipment to load their pickup trucks or any other vehicles, there is a fee. The current fee is being changed from
 For four cubic yards, it'll go to $5 and anything above four cubic yards will go to nine. The previous fees were four and $8. So there's a dollar change there.
 And then the last is on delivery charges. Anything that requires delivery in the range of 20 to 25 cubic yards will be charged a delivery fee of $15. And those are the four changes we recommend to the ordinance. These are all meant to improve the operations and efficiency of the organic resources facility. I'd be happy to take any questions. Councilmembers, are there any questions? Councilwoman Rachel Tumulut.
 Rachel Morgan? Thomas Morgan. Let me get it right. Thank you, Mr. Jatin Kane, for your presentation. I do have a question. With regards to the special delivery, is there a limit to the number of occurrences? I do not believe there is a limit to the number of occurrences, but there is a delivery fee with every occurrence. Thank you. Anybody else have any questions? How often do those people, residential people don't get...
 compost delivered to their house, do they? No, the delivery is mostly by larger users. So an example is the 4-H fairgrounds. The 4-H fairgrounds will get mulch or compost delivered and our team will drop it off for a fee. But residents typically pick up their own. If they have a pickup truck, they might bring a pickup truck and ask one of our loaders to load their pickup truck, in which case there's currently a $4 fee for up to four cubic yards.
 I got my wife's car really messy with the buckets in one year and I got yelled at so I had to have it delivered the next year so that I didn't get in trouble. I yelled at mine too. Councilmembers do you have any questions?
 All right. At this time, we'll go to the public. Clerk Jones, is there anyone that would like to speak in favor of Bill 47-22? There is no one from the public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 47-22. Is there anyone looking to speak in opposition? There is no one seeking to speak in opposition as well. All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 47-22 is now closed.
 Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill? If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding bill 47-22. I move that we send 47-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 All right. It has been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 47-22 will be sent to the full council with available recommendation. All right. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 48-22?
 Dash 22, a second reading.
 4822, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating, adopting and approving the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation's 2023 budget and levying the tax and fixing the rate of the taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to fund the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation, South Bend, Indiana for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2023.
 And I do have to add that this is just the public hearing, right? And that the third reading will be on 1010. All right. All right. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us. Good evening, members of the council. Amy Hill, general manager and CEO with Transpo, 1401 South Lafayette Boulevard in South Bend.
 Thank you. Just a brief overview of Transpo. We're currently at 102 employees. We have about 56 members that belong to the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 996. Those are mostly our operators and mechanics. We do have about 27 employees that have opted out of the union, and then a total of 19 administrative employees.
 We operate a fixed route fleet of 50 buses. That's your traditional bus service that operates along a route with designated bus stops. And then we have our complimentary paratransit service, our access service, which is designed for individuals that may have a physical or mental disability that prevent them from riding the regular fixed route bus. And we serve the cities of both South Bend and Mishawaka.
 We all know that the last few years have been very challenging, so we'd like to highlight a few of our successes. We initially started our fleet replacement program back in 2014 with the arrival of the first 16 compressed natural gas buses. Last year we were able to add another nine buses, which brought us up to 31. So far this year we've received nine, bringing us up to 40 out of the 50, with another 10 on order. So by early next year we'll have 100% CNG fleet on the fixed route side.
 We've also been able to update our paratransit vans last year, so this is the first time in recent history that Transpo actually has an up-to-date fleet. We are planning for the future. Our first CNG buses will be eligible for replacement in 2026, so we'll be looking at some fuel feasibility studies to determine if CNG remains the most competitive or if there's other options out there for us.
 We also launched our Connect Transit Plan. We've been working on that for close to a year now. That's in partnership with MACOG, who operates the inner urban trolley, serving Elkhart and Goshen. I know there have been many of you council members involved in the process, so we certainly appreciate that. We're getting ready to enter our third phase. So this fall, later in November, we'll be rolling out some potential concepts, opening those up to the public for the engagement process there.
 We've also been working on technology upgrades. We do have security requirements through FTA. We're updating our camera systems at all three of our facilities, our headquarters on Lafayette, South Street Station in downtown South Bend, and then our Mishawaka Transfer Center.
 We've also continued to work on expanding our ridership programs, our college and university programs, excuse me, continue to go strong. We did expand our program with the South Bend School Corporation to include middle school students this year. So they're able to ride for free by showing their ID and then the school corporation pays a discounted rate per ride for that.
 I think probably the thing we're most proud of is our new four-year contract with our union. That contract is effective August 17th. Our two priorities heading into those negotiations were to increase our starting wages and also shorten the progression to the top wage.
 Previously, our operators started at $14.42 an hour, and then it took them five years, a full five years to get to the top wage of $26.22. Coming out of training now, our operators, when they enter service, will be starting at $20.43, and then the top wage is $27.12. And most importantly, they're able to reach that within three years. So that will certainly help us with recruiting and retaining employees.
 When we look at the budget heading into 2023, we're at just under $12 million, which is about a 6% increase from last year. On the local revenue side, the majority of our local tax revenue comes from property taxes. That's approximately $3.4 million for 2023. We receive a small portion of the excise tax.
 And then we do receive some of the local income tax. We did receive a cut to that of $200,000 last year. We always like to equate those to dollars in the grand scheme of things. It may not seem like a huge percentage of the budget, but that was the equivalent of two payrolls for us. So certainly detrimental anytime you lose any sort of local funding.
 On a state level, we receive funding through the state of Indiana. The public mass transportation fund is a line item in the budget. There has not been any significant increase to that in over 10 years. We receive about $2 million from there. On the federal side, we continue to receive operating assistance as well as federal preventative maintenance. That is up slightly this year, so that is good heading into 2023.
 Our passenger fares are down. Our ridership is still recovering from COVID-19. Prior to the pandemic, that percentage of the budget would be a little bit closer to 15%. We've been able to maintain our fares. We still only charge a dollar to ride. Well, that ride costs about $5. Since ridership's down, it's actually a little, a few dollars more than that now. We can charge double the amount for our paratransit service, so that is a $2 ride. And those costs are right around 16 to $17.
 Our lease revenue is made up of the parking garage that we own in downtown South Bend that we lease back to the city. That lease currently runs through 2025. And then we also do receive small lease revenue through the South Bend Federal Credit Union, which operates out of our main facility. And then we lease space to Greyhound at South Street Station. And then our advertising revenue that's made up primarily of our transit advertising, both interior and exterior of our buses, which has continued to increase despite the pandemic. Okay.
 On the expense side, you can see our biggest chunk there is our wages and benefits. That makes up about 77% of our budget, which has been pretty consistent the last several years. Fuel expenses have increased slightly. We're lucky that CNG still remains competitive, but this past year we have seen increased diesel prices. We'll continue to see that while we phase out the remainder of the diesel buses, but again, in early 2023, we'll be 100% CNG on the fixed route side.
 Utilities insurance have gone up slightly. There are some increased costs associated with operating CNG, the compressors, the additional electricity that that uses, but are still equivalent to gasoline is still more competitive with the CNG. We've also seen some insurance increases from the property and casualty side. We're very lucky that our health insurance rates have held steady. We're partners in the St. Joe County Health Plan and we have not seen a rate increase the last couple of years, so that's been very fortunate for us.
 On the services side, we're actually down slightly. We did terminate our state lobbying contract. We previous had a state lobbyist on retainer. We felt there was better use of those dollars. We have great relationships with our representatives down on the state level. And so if there were any future projects that would come up, we could do that on a project type basis. Like everyone, costs have gone up, so we are seeing a slight increase in materials and supplies, and then miscellaneous expenses as well.
 As you can see on the operating expense, we saw an increase in 2019 that was primarily due to a market adjustment with our pension. It decreased in 2020 just due to our overall operating expenses and reducing service due to COVID-19, and it's now making its way back up in 2021 and 2022.
 On the labor side, again, same thing. You can see our labor expenses went down in 2020. That was primarily because while we were able to keep all our employees working throughout the pandemic, we weren't paying as much overtime because we did reduce that service. We're now seeing that come back up. That will continue to go up while we work on getting to full staffing levels. And again, the local income tax that hit us in 2021, that $200,000 that we do not anticipate getting back.
 As with many businesses and organizations across our region, we are struggling with staffing right now. We're very fortunate with our new contract. We now have a more competitive rate. We did have a training class that started the same day the contract went into effect. Those three new operators are now in service.
 We have another training class that will be starting on October 10th. Right now, we have about six to seven individuals confirmed for that, and we'll still run a third training class before the end of the year. One of the biggest challenges has really been maintaining our daily service. We've looked at creative options to make sure we're running as much service as possible. However, with the current shortage, we do miss trips throughout the day, and we do our best to communicate that with our riders.
 Also actively recruiting for mechanics and service line. We're down several mechanics and also service line, which are responsible for cleaning and fueling buses. So our maintenance department has really done a great job of stepping up, but those are critical positions that also need to be filled.
 Long-term again, funding is always a challenge. Certainly anytime that we lose local funding like we did last year, that's a concern. Also on the state level, again, not having a significant increase in years is something that we're advocating change going forward. And also long-term federal funding. We've been very fortunate that the current administration has been very supportive of public transportation. We've seen some slight increases in our federal operating and preventative maintenance light items, but that's most likely just going to be short term.
 And again, just increasing costs with employee expenses, raising insurance rates and the cost of providing benefits to our employees. As mentioned, we're still recovering from COVID-19. Prior to March 2020, Transpo had seen five consecutive months of increasing ridership, which we hadn't seen in years. And then COVID hit in March of 2020. And you can see our ridership there. Prior to COVID, we were at about 1.5 million. We dropped down to just under 900,000. We're slowly making our way back.
 August, 2022 was the first time since February of 2020 that we had over a hundred thousand rides in a month. So we're hopeful that we can break that million ride mark through the end of the year.
 We also know one of the challenges that we know there's a need for additional service. We hear that as we're talking to the public as part of our connect transit plan, particularly on later service on Saturday evenings and having some sort of Sunday service as well. One of the biggest challenges there is that we won't see any major service expansion until additional funding is identified.
 There's always opportunities though and again with our Connect Transit plan going on, we certainly appreciate the support that we've received from the Council members in the community and this isn't over yet. We'll be rolling out the whole third phase of public engagement so we certainly can encourage the continued participation. We also work with a variety of community organizations, businesses. We continue to look for those opportunities where we can fill some of those transportation needs and gaps.
 And certainly right now, our biggest opportunity are the employment opportunities. We're fortunate that we have employees that have been with Transpo 20, 30, 40 years. It is a great organization to work for. But not only do we have a lot of open positions right now, we're looking at a lot of upcoming retirements. So we're really looking at that next generation of bus operators and mechanics. So with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? Yes.
 Thank you, Amy. As always, just a very thorough presentation. Can you just explain what falls under the line item that is identified as community services?
 So our community services, we do allocate a certain amount of service that we provide to the community at no charge. And that ranges from everything to the district tours that we do for the South Bend Common Council. We've done some events for mayor's offices. We've done work with some other charitable organizations. I will say that has dwindled right now just because of our operator shortage. So we do allocate a small percentage that we're able to do that each year. Thank you. Any other council members?
 I had a question. Yes. I believe you said you currently had was it 102 employees? Correct. And how many of those did you say opted not to be part of the union? Right now we have about 27 that could be in the union but have opted out of the union. Yet they still enjoy all the benefit packages that everyone else has? Correct. They're still subject to the collective bargaining agreement. Yes. Thank you.
 Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you. Ms. Hill, were you able to find out what the percentage increase was with the college?
 university students and the South Bend Schools Corporation? Well no, so Notre Dame accounts for about 10% of it. We don't have the actual numbers yet for South Bend schools because our summer travel program runs through August so September will be the first time that we're seeing that both the high school and middle school students. So once we have those ridership reports I'd be happy to follow up with those specifics. Yeah, that would be so interesting to track. Thank you so much. You're welcome.
 Ms. Hill, can you tell us how impactful providing free services to high school students and now going into middle school students has been for our community?
 You know, I think that's it's been very significant and it's something that we worked on for several years with Southman's Community School Corporation. Certainly, they've had some transportation challenges. So we really wanted to partner with them and work together to figure out how we could give other options to students. So it's not just a matter of getting them to and from school, but it's also getting them to extracurricular activities or getting them to a part time job.
 So just having that additional transportation option available to them and the school was very supported and wanted to make sure that they were able to use this at anytime, no matter where they're going. From our standpoint, we love working with schools and educating students early on about the value of public transportation. I grew up riding Transpo to and from school, and so being able to extend those services and that additional kind of freedom and access to students of all ages is important to us.
 I would love to find out from students how impactful that has been for Naoman.
 So when we first, we did a pilot program, then we launched the permanent program. We did have several students that actually spoke at the press conference with how it allowed them to be able to get to and from practice and maybe not have to depend on a parent getting them where they needed to go. So it's been very successful. So there's certainly those stories out there that are great to share. All right. At this time, we're going to go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public looking to speak on behalf in favor of Bill
 48-22. There is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 48-22. Is there anyone looking to speak in opposition? There is no one seeking to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 48-22 is now closed. Council members, you can make statements if you would like regarding the bill.
 And I'm going to start with Councilwoman White. Thank you. I would like to personally thank Ms. Amy Hill for her commitment in terms of the community service component that the question was asked.
 I don't know if council members are aware, but Transpol for years, they have really supported the residential neighborhood committee, but most importantly, the council members, when we started the bus tours, I don't know what year that was, but it's been for quite some time. But also I want to thank you for the support that you have given the Rowdy High School sisterhood group,
 when we had our first girls conference on the campus of Ivy Tech, we had two buses that were provided and the girls were so excited that they did not have to ride the yellow buses. So thank you so much for all that you've done and continue to do to really support not only the council, but citizens that we serve as well. Thank you.
 And I would just like to say, Amy, every time you make a presentation, you are so articulate and so well. The only other person that can give you any competition is Caleb Bauer. But thank you. Really have appreciated the presentation and what you've said. And the numbers make sense. So thank you. Thank you very much. Oh, and Dan Parker, you know.
 It's like a three-way race. You better stop while you're ahead. Any other council members like to make any statements? I am so sorry, y'all. All right, if not, I will entertain a motion regarding Bill 48-22. We still make a motion.
 Do we make a motion? Okay. All right. I'll make a motion to send Bill 4822 to the full council with a favorable recommendation at the October 10th meeting. Second. All right. The motion has been made and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Bill 48-22 will be sent to the full council with favorable recommendation on October the 10th. All right. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 49-22 a second reading?
 4922 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council, the city of South in Indiana, levying taxes and fixing the rate of taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the civil.
 City of South Bend for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2023 and appropriating monies for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the fiscal year beginning January 1st, 2023 and ending December 31st, 2023, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing a time when the same shall take effect.
 All right. And we'll also let this be known that this is just a public hearing only. And the third reading will be on 1010. Is there a petitioner present? And I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Yes, thank you. Councilmember Lee, Dan Parker, city controller, my office is on the 12th floor of this building. So I'll kick us off with a few slides here to get us started and then turn it over to Mayor Mueller to finish this out. So this is, as I shared during committee this afternoon, the
 public hearing of the actual budget. But in the city, we do more than just what the bare minimum that's required by state law in that we have already had quite a few hearings of the budget. We actually had 12 public meetings that were scheduled through the 2023 budget process.
 Nine of them are already complete. Tonight is the 10th, and then we have two more, one tomorrow evening, and then one next week to finish it out. So I just like to remind everybody that this, it's been a long road to get to this point.
 and we're nearing the end of the budget presentations, but with the exception of a few of the smaller departments, including council, clerk's office, the mayor's office and the legal department, the entirety of the budget has already been presented through these nine public hearings or public meetings that have been already completed.
 One other thing that I like to highlight before getting into the actual budget itself is that we are now in year two of the Build the Budget initiative. And so we are still going strong in terms of gathering feedback from the community on what priorities are important to them and where we should allocate funding.
 funding based on the strategic priorities of the community. So through the Build the Budget initiative in 2022 for the 2023 budget, we had nine in-person budget feedback sessions that were at local all the branches of the libraries throughout the city, as well as at other community events like Artbeat and a few other community events where
 folks could come and play the budget games, engage with the budget, and put what turned out to be very realistic looking money into the budget priority that was most important to them. And that is part of how we gathered a lot of the feedback on how we put together the priorities and the spending in the 2023 budget. We also had one community action group meeting, which was just
 last week, I believe, and gathered feedback through the folks that showed up at that as well. And as we did last year, we solicited feedback on the budget through both the ability to leave a voicemail when people called 311. So after speaking to a 311 representative and taking care of whatever question they had, they were given the option to leave a voicemail, which is
 sharing their budget priorities. That's a continuation from last year, as well as an online budget survey. So we tried to have multimodal feedback
 Feedback sessions both in person, online and telephonic. As you can see, the participation is a little bit lower this year than what we saw last year in terms of the amount of feedback that we received, but still 250 voicemails received 109 completed online surveys and you can see in the pie chart there that we did have representation from all six districts.
 across the city. That was one of the questions that was asked in the online survey. So feedback from all across the city was important. In terms of the results, what's on the screen is sort of the main thrust of the questions that were asked both in the in-person events, as well as in the online survey.
 For the voicemails, we did have people go through and try and categorize the feedback as best as possible. So those are included in here as well. But for the online survey and for the in-person budget events,
 residents were asked to essentially divide $100 between these various priorities and say, if you had $100 to spend on these various initiatives, how would you divide that $100? And this is the average between all of the responses that we received. So the number one response, as it was last year, is repair and resurface roadways, I think,
 For those that have engaged in the community survey that was just released by the city this year, that came through loud and clear as well. That just was released today. So if you haven't had a chance to take a look at it yet, it's understandable. But that was loud and clear as well that people really care about roadways.
 as the city put together its 2023 budget, we really wanted to make sure that the initiatives that we started in 2021 and 2022 to rebuild our streets were fully funded. And that is the case in the 2023 budget as well. Looking at a couple of the other large responses, expanding violence intervention initiatives, including some of the efforts that were put in place in the 2022 budget with the ARP funding. We are continuing to work
 to operationalize that funding in the 2023 budget and making sure that we are providing those services that are needed by the community to expand violence intervention initiatives and reduce violence in the community. The one that I always like is the third one down, maintain safe, reliable water and wastewater utility. It's a very core function to the city, but it's incredibly important. And the 2023 budget is
 I would venture to say the largest investment in water and wastewater utility infrastructure in many, many years. We have a, as you'll see when the mayor comes up in a few minutes, we have an enormous increase in capital investment that was in line with what we talked about during the rates conversation last year.
 and specifically planned for within those rates. This is the time where we're actually operationalizing that and getting that money out there to make sure that we can continue to provide the safe, reliable water and wastewater in the way we do today. So I won't go through all of these. One other thing I did want to mention, though, is just the color coding of these bars sort of relates to the strategic priorities of the initiative.
 that the budget is built around. So the dark blue is infrastructure projects, the red is public safety and making sure we're maintaining a safe community for everyone. The orange are neighborhood initiatives. The green is around economic development and opportunity. And then the blue is around youth, the lighter blue is around youth and workforce development.
 And so we did try and tie these responses back to the overall strategic initiatives of the community and strategic part of the administration and the 2023 budget, and try and make sure that we're investing in the right things as we put together that budget.
 So despite the fact that we've been through nine meetings and tonight is the 10th, we still have a few more things to wrap up before we are able to vote on the 2023 budget or before council would be able to vote on the 2023 budget. One item that is still to be wrapped up is the compulsory.
 completion of the police negotiation of the negotiation with the FOP for their contract over the next several years. You'll notice that one of the bills that is on first reading this evening is for that police salary ordinance. It is currently blank.
 There are no numbers in it, and that's following a convention that we've used in prior years to just to note that we are still in the process of negotiation. We do expect that to be wrapped up by the time a vote is had on the 10th, and we will file a substitute to reflect the final negotiated
 bill with the FOP. But one thing to note with the numbers that the mayor will share here in just a second is that it does reflect a baseline of a 2% increase on the police negotiations. It does not reflect anything that has been talked about during those negotiations quite yet.
 The other outstanding items are the two things that I mentioned earlier is just the two final public budget meetings. One tomorrow evening to talk about the mayor's office budget, common council's budget, the clerk's office budget and the legal department's budget. And then one next Thursday to sort of just do a budget wrap up and see if there are any additional questions, as well as to discuss transposed budget again, as we did this evening. So with that, I think to present the 2023 budget, I'll ask Mayor Mueller to come on.
 Thank you, Dan. Good evening, Council Members. Mayor James Mueller with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 I know that just mentioned the nine meetings that you've been digging into the details of the budget over the past several weeks since I joined you last at the budget overview. So I'll be brief to get to your comments and questions, but do want to kind of resurface from all the details that you've been digging through over the last few weeks and have a reminder of what
 BROADLY WHAT DOES THIS BUDGET REPRESENT AND WHAT DO WE HOPE TO ACHIEVE IN 2023?
 So first, I want to focus on what are the strategic priorities. You know, these are familiar to you and the city team because they're similar to what they were for 2022. And those are making sure that we're investing in and and implementing strong neighborhoods across our city, making sure that this is a safe community for everyone.
 We've talked about a lot of investments in infrastructure in the 2023 budget, but making sure that we have the infrastructure necessary to grow and thrive and also make sure that it's sustainable into the future. And then also making sure that we're investing in our people, that there's equitable access to opportunity and that youth and our workforce are able to get the skills to be productive in our economy and also get ahead and have a thriving life.
 So here you'll see one cut of how the budget breaks down. And the highlight here is the biggest increases in growth.
 IN SPENDING YEAR OVER YEAR FROM 2022 ARE IN STRATEGIC SPENDING. YOU SEE THE FIRST RED BOX THERE AT 74%. SO THESE ARE STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS MADE INTO DIFFERENT PROGRAMS AND CAPITAL PROJECTS. AND THEN YOU LOOK DOWN TO THE SECOND BOX AND THAT IS THE 147% INCREASE TO ROBUST SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE.
 And so a lot of this is the sewer and water investments that were contemplated as part of the rates case. And, you know, to make that investment possible, we'll have to come with some financing proposals to get to that level. But they'd be supported by by the rates that were passed last year.
 The other noticeable increases on strategic initiatives, increase in strong neighborhoods, as well as safe community for everyone. There'll be a different cut in a second so we can go more of how we've been presenting the budget this year department by department.
 So here's the cuts department by department. You've seen this probably before that Dan has shared with you. The difference here is we've tried to break out the Interfund transfers out of this. So the numbers will be a little bit different than if you compare this to a slide. It's the same, the numbers are the same. It's just the Interfund transfers, the way public accounting is accounted for can be misleading.
 in terms of where the money is actually being spent out of. So here you'll see, first and foremost, the decrease in the mayor's office. And this really is the proposed transfer of the community initiatives team in the venue parks and arts.
 So when I took office in 2020, there was a new position, Director of Community Initiatives, that was created and filled for the first time in 2020. And there was our GVI coordinator also in the mayor's office that I think came into the mayor's office in 2019 or so.
 And so it was a two-person team. And since then, as you'll see, 2021-2022 budget there, the team has grown over time. If you recall back to two years ago when there was some reorganization within venue parks and arts, some of those positions that had been in venue parks and art community centers,
 were moved to the community initiatives team. And as this team has grown and done a lot of things, there are a lot of synergies we feel that come into play with our community centers, especially when we're looking to make a major investment in the Martin Luther King Jr. Center. You know, we can't go back to exactly what it was before because it'll be a whole new center and a lot more programming opportunities to manage.
 So the thought was this team now has grown out of the mayor's office and can work with and find the right pieces to fit together within the venue parks and arts team. And so, you know, Mo Scott is leading the team and would take that on in BPA as the, I believe the title proposed is a chief community officer. So still,
 LEADERSHIP POSITION WE WILL SEE A LOT OF MR SCOTT'S IN THIS RETITLED ROLE AND SEE A LOT OF EXCITING THINGS AS AS HE WOULD BE ABLE TO BRING TOGETHER SOME OF THE COMMUNITY PROGRAMMING SIDE IN THE VENUE PARKS AND ARTS SO THAT'S THAT'S THE TOP LINE I
 I'LL LEAVE COMMON COUNCIL BUDGET, I BELIEVE THE HEARING IS TOMORROW. IS THAT RIGHT? SO WE'LL GO OVER THAT TOMORROW. THE OTHER BIG ONE, AGAIN, YOU SEE THE PUBLIC WORKS BUDGET GOING UP. AGAIN, THAT'S ALL THE INFRASTRUCTURE, WHETHER IT'S THE STREETS, WATER OR SEWER. A LOT OF CAPITAL INVESTMENTS LOOKING TO BE DONE IN 2023.
 And then finally the venue parks and arts, that's again, a large part of that is the
 investment into the King Center. So that's a big piece of it. The other piece is, you know, if you look at the decrease from the mayor's office to from 2022 to 2023, the transfer of the community initiatives team, and there are some other odds and ends, of course, they've seen some of the impacts of inflation as well. So materials and supplies and other things. And that's true across the board, but they've seen some large increases as well.
 So we talked about this several weeks ago, but the proposed budget overall as the city has a little over a $19 million deficit in the budget. And that's driven by some of the internal service fund spend down, which are things you.
 you don't want to necessarily accumulate funds in those internal service. So that's, you know, deliberate streets funds spend down again, these are capital funds. So, you know, we need to spend them and we know residents want us to spend and fix and repair our streets. So that's, that's where that comes from. And then in our, what we call our core government operating funds, the general plus funds it's a projected deficit of 13.5 million this year.
 And as we break that down, there are some one-time spending that we're looking to do. Here we're proposing $2 million net to make the Dream Center possible. When we did the 11.1 million in ARP spending last year, there were a couple of things that we went out to the community to get their input about what they wanted to see. And so there were some normal
 cost escalations that just came from the proposal to have two full gyms raise the cost. But more importantly, as we've seen in projects across the city, inflation has raised the cost by sometimes as many as as much as 20 to 30 percent. And so the numbers that we project now for the King Center had the updated cost.
 had updated cost numbers from this year that was in midst of the inflation spike, as well as additional contingency. So every project, when you do a capital project, you always set aside a certain amount, oftentimes 10 percent or so for contingency. You know, the new budget for the King Center has additional contingency for cost escalation going into the future. So we feel very good about, you know, where the, you know, us.
 if we have cost escalation that exceeds this, then we have a lot of other problems in our economy if the prices keep going up like they had over the last 12 months. So we feel good about this cost estimate and just piecing together the financing both
 city resources and also outside revenue opportunities to make this possible. So in all in all, the new Dream Center estimate is just over $19 million estimated costs. Could be lower if we luck out, but that's a good estimate to go off of right now.
 We talked about the $5.5 million in strategic capital. This is from the general plus fund, not the 3.5 out of the usual streets fund that you saw on the previous slide. So this is out of the local, you know, the general fund, income tax funds, etc.,
 The zoo capital was, I believe it was a 15-year agreement that we started in 2019, and there were some upfront capital investments made then, and there was a usual $100,000 per year capital investment that was actually carried over from the previous agreement.
 And part of this agreement had the city's contribution to the zoo declining over time. So as we were going off the theory that if we make these upfront investments and make the zoo a better, more vibrant, more popular place, that the revenue would then follow where they wouldn't need as much city support over time. And so.
 But there were some concerns that they would need capital in the fifth year before they go. So after this fifth year of the agreement where there's an additional million dollars, then this is when the the annual city subsidy in the agreement starts to decline. So this was this was negotiated in 2018, 2019 time frame. And so that's.
 THAT'S WHERE THIS 1.1 MILLION COMES IN FOR NEXT FOR 2023. AND THEN ADDITIONALLY THE PLAN TO REPAIR OUR ATHLETIC COURTS WITH ARP DOLLARS. OF COURSE WITH INFLATION THE COST CAME IN OVER BUDGET. AND SO THIS IS TO MAKE SURE THAT WE CAN DO THE PLAN WE ORIGINALLY WERE HOPING TO DO WITH ARP FUNDS WITH THESE WITH AN ADDITIONAL $500,000.
 And then, of course, the cost in fuel. Luckily, they've started to come down over the past 60 days or so. And we hope that the prices don't go back toward the five dollars a gallon and stay below four dollars a gallon. And I believe in this budget we've assumed the four dollar gallon. Yeah.
 MY PHONE A FRIEND WHO LEFT ME HERE, BUT I BELIEVE IT'S A $4 A
 a estimate for fuel looking in 2023. The good news was when the prices were going up all summer in mid-summer, we had a $5 assumption in the budget. And when we started to see it come down, we thought four would be appropriate, but we hope that we don't see four again, but that's what we need to do to be safe. We know there are still supply chain issues.
 You know, there's still the war going on in Ukraine and other issues that, you know, may keep gas prices tight going into next year, too. And then more importantly, you know, it's important to note that a budgeted deficit doesn't mean we're actually in an operating deficit. If you go back the last three years, we had a balanced budget coming into 2020 and we had a $13.3 million surplus.
 We had a $5 million deficit for 21, and we ended up having a $9.9 million surplus. 2022, a $6.3 million deficit, and so far, or mid-year, we had a $2.7 million surplus. And so there are a lot of factors to that. One, we...
 we budget conservatively in the sense of we we budget for worst case scenarios about like if we're fully staffed you know at the uh all year round that doesn't happen but then if we do it the other way it's challenging you know there's no obvious way to to make some of these estimates but we do try to budget conservatively and that's what you see here you see a deficit that we don't fully realize and and we know um there's about uh
 Over 100 positions that are currently vacant in the city out of a workforce of just almost 1200 or so. So almost 10 percent of the workforce is is vacant at this time. And just like other businesses and other.
 ORGANIZATIONS, STAFFING IS MORE OF A CHALLENGE NOW THAN IT IS IN NORMAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TIMES. SO WE TYPICALLY SEE THAT UNDER 100, BUT STILL SUBSTANTIAL ENOUGH TO MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO BUDGET EXACTLY WHERE WE SHOULD BE. SO WITH PERSONNEL. THAT'S ONE THING. OTHER PIECES,
 IT'S HARD TO ALWAYS PREDICT BUDGETS OR ESTIMATES. IT'S OUR PROJECTIONS OF OUR BEST CASE SCENARIO. THE OTHER PIECE THAT WE DIDN'T KNOW IN THE PREVIOUS YEARS IS REVENUE CAME IN OVER PROJECTIONS.
 You know, we're making our best estimates and projections, but it's important to note that budgeted deficit doesn't mean actual deficit. But we do actually hope, you know, we're having these one-time spending because we are actually hoping to spend down some of our reserves which have built
 because of this, you know, they have built higher than we need over the past few years. And so, you know, we want to maintain our AA bond rating. And that's, I think I've told this council a few times that Mr. Parker and I are not going to be the ones that propose something that jeopardize our AA bond rating. But...
 We believe that we have, because we've been able to build up these reserves to such a high level over the past few years, we have a cushion now to navigate through this uncertain inflationary environment, as well as smoothly get to the other side and do important projects for the community all at the same time. So just quickly to highlight the the.
 The highlights in, you know, as we surface from all the detailed conversations in the budget, some of the highlights in the budget from a higher level view. So, you know, first and foremost, we go back to the strategic priorities and make sure that we're investing in a safe community for everyone. So we're looking and hopeful that as the negotiations with the FOP finalize here, that this contract
 and all the recruiting efforts going on in the department will get us the full staffing levels sometime in 2023. And so we are budgeting for that, where when we were so far short number of officers over the past couple of years, we had actually reduced the budgeted number just because
 being pragmatic, like we talked earlier, how much do you budget for personnel knowing that you're not gonna be at 100% all year round? Well, now we think we'll be close to that at least some point in 2023. So that's accounted for.
 And this, it's important because we haven't, as we were short and to the levels we have been short, we haven't been able to do a lot of the proactive things that we've just been, you know, responding to calls for service, investigating cases, but we're still short in the detective bureau. We're still short where we want to be in the strategic focus unit. And we're,
 we need more, you know, we're short to cover some of the shifts, especially, you know, the second shift. So, you know, we're, the department, we're very hopeful and optimistic that we get there because that will, you know, change a lot of what we're able to do instead of just, you know, responding to calls and, you know, chasing our tails on different things, we'll be able to have some of our more proactive efforts.
 ALSO, THIS INCLUDES THE CRIME ANALYST FOR THE REAL TIME CRIME CENTER. SO THE DOLLARS THAT THE ARP ENABLED TO MAKE THE INVESTMENTS IN THE TECHNOLOGY, THERE ARE SOME OPERATIONAL ONGOING COSTS AND THESE ANALYSTS ARE A BIG PART OF THE ONGOING OPERATIONAL COSTS AND THEY'RE INCLUDED IN THE BUDGET. THERE'S THE 300,000 FOR MENTAL HEALTH, THAT'S
 And that's on top of the roughly $2.6 million for the Crisis Response Center. That's still in negotiation, but it's moving forward here
 I'd say in a little bit different way than we talked about last time, where before we were talking about partnering with Beacon at the Epworth Center. And now it looks like Beacon will rent out the space, same place, rent out the space to Oaklawn. And then so we'd be partnering with Oaklawn directly and they'd be renting space from Beacon.
 And the idea there is there's a count, the county and the city would match funding for this. And there's talks of reaching out to the city of Mishawaka to see if they are open to contributing to this center as well.
 there's a doubling of traffic calming so there were a lot of neighborhood infrastructure dollars we doubled neighborhood infrastructure dollars in the 2022 budget but the doubling came from arp dollars a lot of the the traffic calming piece of that a lot of that those arp dollars are still yet to go out the door so 2023 should be a big year for for traffic calming implementation and deployment
 But as the team developed the plan, took all the priorities of traffic calming, and I know council members hear it from residents and we hear it from residents quite a bit.
 Going through the list, they realized that we still need to have more funding available in 2023 to make our way through even the high priority area. So we won't be able to get through everything that residents have asked for, but hopefully get through a lot or most of the highest priority places. And I think the team should be ready to really go through those details with you in the coming weeks.
 The other piece is strong neighborhoods and robust infrastructure. And we've talked about this, the rebuilding our streets plan is fully funded. We have new neighborhood plans funded in this budget for LaSalle Park and River Park. And that would include planning for or master planning for Pottawatomie Park as part of that broader neighborhood plan.
 There's the Dream Center funding that gets us there. If you're trying to figure out the math, how do you get the $19 million? There's hope that we can convince the Redevelopment Commission to pitch in as well as maybe we can overachieve on outside fundraising as well.
 We know alleys have been a big topic of conversation from residents and doubling the capacity of our alley maintenance with two new positions and the grading machine.
 Trees, the tree canopy, not just for climate or environmental, but also quality of life has been a big topic of conversation. So working with outside partners in that our $50,000 would be matched by outside funding and make sure that we are investing in our tree canopy across the city.
 We talked about the big capital project, Seward Water. Won't go into that anymore. And we talked about the athletic court repairs. I believe when community investment, they talked about a new inspector to make sure our RSVP and code programs are staffed to the level they need to be robust and but also efficient.
 Continuing to invest in climate action plan, that's those investments that we started in ARP. Many of those have continued into structural funding to make sure we're continuing to make progress and lower our emissions here as a city.
 And then funding for the ethnic festival that seems to be gotten a lot of good feedback on that. I hope you have, too. But, you know, one of the concerns of why it went away many years ago was security. So a lot of these dollars do go to providing the fencing and the security measures necessary to make this a safe and fun affair for for everyone.
 And then finally there's the investments in people so equitable access and opportunity and youth and workforce development so the we've talked about the Restructuring in in venue parks and arts and an emphasis on community programming and getting that right and and the new King Center as well being a part of that there is also proposed a new arts equity position to make sure that the
 The events that we're having at venues, including the Morris Arts Performing Center, are inclusive in that everyone has a stake and can enjoy that great city asset. There's also a new workforce development coordinator position in community investment and then a technology equity position proposed in innovation and technology.
 There are a couple pieces here. There were dollars in ARP for workforce development, so you don't see as many dollars for the programming itself because we're still working through a lot of those dollars from American Rescue Plan. But hopefully the county will move forward tomorrow on the ARP.
 the battery plant out in New Carlisle and there's a lot of focus on we know a lot of the workers will come from South Bend and GM knows a lot of the workers will come from South Bend so they'll be looking to the city to court the partner and coordinate on Workforce Development pieces to to make that project successful so that's uh that's an exciting news that's probably the
 I can't think of a bigger investment that's been made into our region, at least not in the recent past. And with inflation, it could very well be the biggest single investment at one time into our community. So that's exciting.
 And then finally, we need to make sure, you know, we've talked about inflation a lot. Well, you know, wages are going up across industries and in some some in particular more than others. And so we're you know, we're not able to keep up with the rate of inflation, which depends how you measure it or, you know, which measure you use could be, you know, closer to six percent could be, you know, closer to 10 percent over the last 12 months.
 But wages have on average gone up between five and six percent. Again, that's a struggle to get there. So we're for across the board. So the the approach we took here was, you know, we know which positions we've been having a very hard time filling, right?
 And we know which positions where we've made some offers and then the salary was too, we had a good candidate, the salary was too low and someone beat us on the salary. So we proposed some targeted wage increases to those positions that have been hard to fill and hard to recruit.
 as well as making a higher than normal time increase across the board for non-bargaining employees, 3% cost of living plus the $1,000 increase to the city residency benefit. So if you were an employee making $50,000 a year and you live in the city, you get your 3%, plus you would get a 2%.
 increase from the city residency benefit. So that's gets you to 5% or so increase. So with that, I'm open to any questions or thoughts that you have. So thank you. All right. Council members, you have any, any questions, Ms. Hannon. Thank you. Thank you, mayor for the presentation. In the packet, we have a page that says ordinance,
 Or resolution for appropriations and tax rate. So where it talks about adopted tax levy values. Under Fund Code 2391, it's cumulative capital development. Is that water and sewer? It's an increase in $852,000.
 I don't know if that's a Dan Parker question. Yeah, I can phone a friend here with Dan. It's not the... Dan probably will be better to explain it. But yeah, it's not the water and sewer. It could probably be used technically for that, but it's not directly related to the
 Yeah, that's right. This is actually one component of our property taxes and has been for many, many years is this community capital development. It's actually the only component of the property taxes that is directly rate-based. Both the general fund and the parks fund, which are the largest components, are levy-based. And without getting into too deep on how all that works, it's
 Essentially what it means is that the council sets the rate for that and then that rate is applied to the total net assessed value of the property. The other funds don't work that way. It's been at the same rate for many years, so there's no change in the rate for the community capital development. As the mayor said, the use of that is only for capital activities, so capital investment. So I think it could be used for water and sewer. That is not how we use it. Currently, the majority of that goes to
 fund debt service that we have on police vehicles. So we lease our police vehicles. We do those through lease purchases. And that's where that is paid for, is from that fund. Okay, don't run away. I just have one more. I'm wondering under the mayor's office budget, I don't know if you can answer this, how much is budgeted for the CRB director and the board?
 I believe the CRB director is not in the mayor's office directly, right? That's in admin. It would fall technically under the admin finance budget, and I believe it's just the standard raise compared to where we are this year. And the board expenses with training and such, that's also in admin finance?
 whatever I think we've taken what we had in the 2022 budget and Increase the the salary by the three percent You know plus they if they live in the city they would receive that benefit, so I believe that's what the changes are You know we'd be open the conversation with with the council knowing that this is a joint Endeavor here as we look to fill the board and the director spot. Okay. Thank you any other council members?
 with any questions well now that my friend's back we but the gallon of gasoline is four dollars in the budget okay that's correct all right any other council members with a question i i want one would like to know uh i've been getting questions from different uh constituents in the first district about the athletic courts being repaired um when will that kick in i know that this is in the 2023 budget but it was also budgeted for 2022 so
 I'd just like to know what, when, when those will, will happen. So this is the, this is one of the, there's a couple of things that have fallen victim to this, but like I said, it came in over budget. So we bid it out. It came in well over budget. And,
 We didn't bid it out in a way where we could, you know, do part of it and go forward. We have since, if we haven't awarded the bid and I don't see our deputy director of public works, we have since bid it out in a way where we can, we'll make progress on the ones we can with the budget we already have, and then look to do the rest with the 2023 dollars. But it's a problem where contractors are busy.
 So bids are coming in, not just the rate of inflation, but even higher. It's basically if you really want to do this project right now while we're so busy, you know, hey, it's this and we'll do it or we'll figure it out. It's all in overtime or, you know, whatever, whatever the case may be. And so, you know, that this is one of those areas where we ran into that problem. We also ran into that problem, if you recall, in the second quarter appropriations, we brought the additional streets to you.
 We bid that out and we got no bids for this year. One said, oh, we might be able to do it next year. So it's just a challenge with the economy being so red hot that it's hard to get workers to do the jobs. I know. And then what are we planning to do to prepare our citizens? I know tomorrow the county will be voting on that to work at the new battery plant facility.
 what ideals
 do we have on what we're gonna do to prepare our citizens to be able to take those jobs? So those conversations have really just started with the city, but like I said, GM sees the city as a critical partner to make this successful here in our region. And so those conversations we'll be having, what kind of skills, how do we do the outreach? How do we get our residents with the skills needed to go and make this a successful operation?
 Thank you. Councilwoman White. Yes, I just have one question, Mayor, is in regards to the Citizen Review Board. I do remember that funds had been identified for training of the board through the National Association. Do you know where we're at? Because I know that we have not been able to move to that next stage. Will those funds still be available or what we have to request them? I think they've been encumbered though, haven't they?
 I think it was ten thousand dollars if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, we will partner with the council. I mean you have the commitment of me and the administration. We're going to partner with you to make this successful. I think, you know, we've been waiting for a director and a board and then figure out exactly, start road mapping what resources do we need exactly to make this successful. So
 I don't know that they're, if they've been encumbered, they might have been. My question was, can we carry those funds forward since they already, if I'm not mistaken, have been identified? I don't know. That was in 21's budget? 21, 22. Yeah. Yeah.
 I'm just trying to see if we have monies, can we move them forward and keep them? So I think the specific answer, I'd have to check, but I think the specific answer is it was not encumbered. We have really specific requirements from the State Board of Accounts on when we can and can't encumber funds. Usually it has to do with, do we have a contract in place to actually specifically spend those funds with an entity?
 But as the mayor said, the administration can continue to work and identify funds for that priority as it comes. And then you can- I thought we had a contractual agreement, but I really don't know. Thank you, I appreciate it. Anyone else? If not, we're going to go to the public. Clerk Jones, is there anyone looking to speak in favor of bill number 49-22? Yeah, someone here?
 Come up and state your name and your address for the record, please. So my name is Brian Frazier, address 52791 Hill Trail, South Bend, Indiana, 46628. I don't know if this is the right place to ask, but if the budget isn't completed yet for next year, is it possible or too late to ask for maybe funding for the TSU Notre Dame program?
 game to provide opportunities to expose the youth to TSU alumni who are really excelling in life and just some different things. I'm a TSU alumni, by the way, and we have a whole weekend of activities planned. So I don't know if it's too late, but I at least wanted to ask that question.
 When is the game? The game is the 2nd, September 2nd of next year. Yeah, I mean, that's that's something we can talk about. I'm trying to think which team would be most appropriate to work on that. Maybe.
 Community investment or VPA or the two that jumped to mind, but yeah, we can have that conversation. Yes. We have four days TSU is willing to present a Scholarships to South Bend students We have cheerleaders the band possibly that can come and do pep rallies and even some tutoring sessions for South Bend students So in the cities on like downtown South Bend they're kind of on board. So just wanted to ask yeah No, absolutely
 I think we'll put you in touch with some folks to figure out exactly what this might look like. Sounds good. See what we can do. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Clark Jones, is there anyone else that wants to speak in favor of Bill number forty nine dash twenty two? We have another person. Are you in favor or in opposition? OK, you got to come to the microphone and state your name and your address. Thank you.
 MY NAME IS MIRALYN GASHAW. I LIVE AT 2514 KINWOOD AVENUE, SOUTH BENN, INDIANA. I JUST HAVE A QUICK QUESTION. I HEARD POTTAWATOMIE PARK MENTIONED IN THE BUDGET. IF YOU COULD EXPLAIN WHAT POTTAWATOMIE PARK IS NEEDING. WELL, NEEDING IN PARKS IS A VERY OPEN QUESTION BECAUSE IF YOU TALK TO OUR PARKS DIRECTOR,
 That deficit may go way up. There's a lot of things that we could spend across our park system. There are a number of things that have happened at Pottawatomie over the past number of years.
 First and foremost, we mentioned the Pahatawatomi Zoo has made a lot of investments and is drawing people in, many more people in than ever before. And so you've already seen some expansions of parking lots to accommodate those visitors so that they don't spill completely into all of the neighboring streets. They still do, but to maintain it to a certain degree.
 So one, there's the zoo has exploded in visitors and amenities. The second is we have a over 60-year-old pool that we found this year was not able to be put into operation. We finally got an engineer's report about what it would cost to repair this for another good length of,
 time and that's a couple million dollars just to repair the existing pool. There are thoughts that it's almost basically the cost of building a new pool. So the idea of planning is
 Well, even if we were to put a new pool back and pay for that, does the pool need to go exactly where it is or should it be planned in a little more coordinated way? Just like Howard Park, just like we're doing with Martin Luther King Park with the new center and just like we're hoping to do with Kennedy Park.
 and LaSalle Park actually, after the remediation is done, there's some new amenities going there. So looking to plan how all these pieces fit together and haven't made a final decision on whether you'd replace the pool, but even if that is the final decision, it probably wouldn't make sense to place the pool exactly where it is today. All right, thank you. Clerk Jones, is there anyone looking to speak in opposition?
 I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 49-22 is now closed. Council members, you can make any statements if you would like. No? No one? All right. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Sorry, I skipped a line on my paper. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 49-22. I'd like to move that we send Bill 49-22 to the full council on October 10th with a favorable recommendation.
 I'll second the motion. All right. There's been a motion that's been second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. He just stepped out. He stepped out. Oh, okay. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Six ayes. Aye.
 All right. Bill 49-22 will be sent to the full council on October the 10th with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Those in favor, or do we got to do? Okay. Those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Motion carries. Okay.
 I would like to report back to the full council. And at this time, I would request a 10 minute break for me to have a discussion with our legal. So moved. Second. Is there any, all in favor? Aye. Is there any nay? Motion's carried. 10 minute recess. I call the meeting back to order for the full council.
 We will go to bills that are on third reading. Clerk Jones, would you give bill 4422 a third reading? 4422, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for a street vacation, a portion of the LaSalle Avenue connector lying north of Colfax Avenue and west of the east line of the city cemetery extended south to Colfax Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? No.
 Yes, we met in the Committee of the Whole, and it now comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4422. I would like to move for passage of Bill 4422. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll? Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Nieskowski? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member White?
 Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Bill 4422 has been adopted. Council, would you give Bill 4522 a third reading? 4522, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2022.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 4522? Yes, the Committee of the Whole met and Bill 45-22 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4522. I move for the passage of Bill 45-22. Second. Second. Councilor Jones, will you call the roll? Yes.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Bill 4522 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4622 a third reading.
 4622, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2022 of $110,000 from the General Fund No. 101, $3,348,550 from the DCI Federal Fund No. 212, $25,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund No. 220,
 $475,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund, number 266. $10,000 from the Indiana River Rescue Fund, number 291. $161,819 from the Local Income Tax Economic Fund, number 408.
 $332,253 from the Urban Development Action Grant Fund, number 410. $314,270 from the Professional Sports Convention Development Area Fund, number 413. $1,100,000 from the Water Works Fund.
 from the Water Works Operations Fund, number 620, 240,000 from the Sewer Repair Insurance Fund, number 640, 785,000 from the Sewage Works Operating Fund, number 641, and 8,000 from the Fire Pension Fund, number 701.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 46-22? Yes, we met in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 46-22. I move for the passage of Bill 46-22. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, call the roll, please. Thank you.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. 4622 has been adopted.
 Council Member Ruffin-Roth, would you give Bill 4722 a third reading, please? Council Member Ruffin-Roth, 4722, third reading, one, an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending, tipping, and loading charges for yard waste customer within two sections of Chapter 16, Article 4 of the South Bend Municipal Code. Council Member Ruffin-Roth, thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 4722? Councilor Lee, Yes, the Committee of the Whole met.
 Bill 47-22 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 47-22. I'd like to move for passage of Bill 47-22. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll call, please.
 Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member White. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Aye. Vice president Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Bill number 4722 has been adopted. Now we would move on to resolutions. Resolution 22-43. Clerk Jones, will you please read the resolution?
 Yes. 2243, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving and adopting the Kennedy Park Neighborhood Plan. Thank you. Their presenter. Good evening, council members. My name is Tim Corcoran, director of planning for the City of South Bend. Four offices on the 14th floor of this building. OK, there there we go.
 Good evening, and I'm pleased to present to you tonight the final stages of the Kennedy Park neighborhood plan. So as I spoke about this afternoon, I'm trying to  I'll run through some of the highlights of this, but many of you heard a lot of this this afternoon, so 
 One part about this is what is a plan? So this is a document with a timeframe of five to 20 years. It's a long range vision for the neighborhood. It's a statement for what the neighborhood wants to achieve and a strategy on how to reach those goals. It's a guide for making decisions from city departments, council, common council and partner stakeholders. It's a starting point for more detailed planning and public engagement as individual projects are pursued.
 And the imagery that you see in the plan today is our ideas of one way in which to do some of the ideas that came forth through the public engagement process.
 And so they're a general representation of a desired built form and the principles that lead to that, building types, land use, and infrastructure. But the primary goal is to illustrate a way to do it and allow us the flexibility to make changes as those projects come to fruition. Thank you.
 The main topics addressed in this plan, as with all the other plans that the one near Westside prior to this and soon the Northeast neighborhood and Rome Village, is really addresses things like infrastructure, parks and open space, housing and zoning and building types. And all of that is really underpinned by neighborhood specific topics and issues.
 And for Kennedy Park, many of those issues related to vacant lots, the appraisal gap for new construction, the need for neighborhood businesses, and a master plan for park and community assets within the neighborhood. This is the boundary of the Kennedy Park plan with Lincoln Way West on the north, the City Cemetery on the east, Colfax and Washington Street on the south, and Bendix and Mead Street on the west.
 We conducted a pretty broad reaching and all encompassing sort of engagement. We started this public engagement back in March of 2021, where we had a series of outreach methods, including letters in the water bill.
 There were signs, there were posters put up around the neighborhood and postcards sent to every individual property owner and address in the neighborhood. We had a series of stakeholder meetings with groups within the neighborhood and city departments.
 We created an online engagement platform which allowed people to participate virtually in some of the public sessions that we had and as a way to fill out surveys and do a mapping exercise for their neighborhood all online.
 In October, we had a visioning workshop where we asked residents to talk about the strengths and weaknesses of their neighborhood and look at things that they felt were lacking and things that they would like us to concentrate on.
 And from that, we developed a series of priorities for the neighborhood and asked the residents to take those ideas that they came to us with and then help prioritize those ideas to tell us what are the most important things to work on as we all have difficult choices to make and how we fund things.
 From that, we developed a draft plan and took that to a public open house where we had multiple presentations throughout the day for people to come in and ask us questions about specific issues in the neighborhood plan draft document and then we were able to take those issues and sometimes incorporate them back into the plan before it came to the plan commission.
 Some of the major themes that came out of the engagement, streets and transportation, Linden Avenue, Johnson Street were two of the highlights there in terms of traffic calming and streetscape projects. Creating consistent lighting of streets and curb and sidewalk repair. In the housing category, there was a desire to promote and expand the home repair program.
 preserve and expand affordable housing options within the neighborhood and identify homes needing repair through code enforcement. Built form and zoning, the main issue here was promote neighborhood scale corner store businesses on Linden Avenue and other amenities included things like the improvement of the MLK Center and the surrounding park, improvements to Kennedy Park, and to encourage development of neighborhood businesses. So out of all of that we we
 started to formulate the neighborhood plan itself. So that's the basis, the underpinning of the plan. Every neighborhood plan has a series of guiding principles in which we look at all of the projects within it.
 The plan must be urban, so this is about well-connected, walkable neighborhoods. It must be attractive. This is about the neighborhood's physical environment and it's thoughtfully managed to make it a desirable and competitive and vibrant place to live. It should be healthy, a neighborhood that encourages an active lifestyle for residents and visitors regardless of age or ability.
 It must be equitable. Neighborhood housing accommodates the unique needs, desires, and incomes and all income levels of all households. Historic disinvestment is addressed through zoning reform and increased public and private investment.
 And it must be sustainable, looking at ways to ensure that the neighborhood fully utilizes its existing infrastructure and preserves and reuses structures of historical architectural significance, implements sensible environmental policies, and is committed to reducing its carbon footprint.
 Through that, we developed a series of projects that could help implement many of the ideas that the neighbors brought forward to us. And each of these numbers represents a specific project within the plan and also addresses ideas related to infrastructure, intersection improvements, trail and bike paths, and other infrastructure issues.
 So the numbers on the left correspond to this map of the neighborhood and show us and locate where those projects are proposed. Each of those areas, especially ones where you can see a little bit more detail, are places where we went into more detail to show one way in which the plan could be executed in the future. So for instance, one of the big projects is the revitalization of Linden Avenue.
 It was very clear to us from the public engagement that seeing new businesses on Linden Avenue was a high priority.
 We also were looking at ways that we could connect the Coal Line Trail from which currently stops at Lincoln Way West, how to bring that down to the King Center to better connect Kennedy Park, the King Center, with the NNN and Notre Dame and all the other trail systems that it connects to.
 And even on the right, we showed at the time an idea of maybe where the King Center would be. When we started this project, the King Center redevelopment was not something we were planning on, but through the mayor and VPA, we were able to see, to actually see,
 coordinate this process with the VPA, with the redevelopment of the MLK Center. So that was one of these things that the plan was still evolving and we were already starting to implement parts of it. This is the plan for the area. And so a lot of those guiding principles that are listed here were actually used as the basis for the design of the of the new King Center.
 Kennedy Park and looking at what that could look like.
 Again, the park has some great assets, some that are underutilized, and we're looking at ways that we can revitalize the park and have it used in a better way and used more thoroughly from residents. And one of the major things that came out of that was the desire for a pool. There used to be a pool there. It had been removed. And looking at ways that we might be able to bring a pool back to the neighborhood park.
 Again, looking at different ways that we can take all these pieces, put them together in an arrangement that makes sense to make the park a better place and more usable. Circle Avenue is another area where we're looking at some streetscape projects and where new development could potentially happen. Focusing on some of the desirable businesses that are already there, including Frankie's, is one that keeps popping up in all of our conversations.
 And again, looking at the principles and the plan and how that can be executed. Streets and transportation were always one of the number one things. We're looking at projects in which there could be streetscape improvement areas, where traffic calming was seen to be a major topic, and where intersection improvements can be done in order to address safety pedestrian and cyclist issues.
 We looked at bike infrastructure, shared paths, protected bike lanes, on-street facilities. Housing is an issue across the city.
 And so one of the things that we did was look at, you know, what are some of the market challenges of building new in the neighborhood and that the usually the cost of construction of new housing is often greater than the appraised value of the property once it's completed. So what are ways that we can tackle that? One of the things that we're proposing is the ability to
 uh build more missing middle housing typologies by right in the neighborhood so this is a mix of types and price points for for housing in the neighborhood and looking at how housing repair and quality can be addressed through uh better relationships with code enforcement and rsvp programs and this map identifies where we think if we were to pilot new housing where it would go building off of strengths that are both already in the neighborhood and things that are part of this plan
 Part of this incorporates changing or looking at the current zoning for the neighborhood and what it might be for the future. So this is the current zoning map. The thing to note is that it's very beige and that beige color represents our urban neighborhood one district, which is a single family district. It allows a house plus an accessory dwelling unit.
 And what we're proposing is to go to this, which incorporates a lot more of the areas in Brown, and that's our Urban Neighborhood 2 district. This allows for four dwellings plus an accessory dwelling unit on a parcel. This doesn't mean it must be that way, but it allows missing middle housing types to be incorporated into the neighborhood in a way that doesn't require rezoning. So it helps unlock that potential
 in a way. The plan has got an implementation matrix that goes with it in order to hold all of us accountable to some of the action items that are within the plan. So the matrix first has action items on the left. These are the different sort of projects that are within the plan.
 It talks about the lead who's responsible for implementing those projects and the different partners and key partners it will take to do so. And it sets out a general time frame in which those projects should be completed. And with that, I would ask if you have any questions for me tonight. I would ask right now, Mr. Corker, thank you so much for that extensive presentation. And I am...
 Personally, I'm glad to see that area being revitalized at this time. Although not my district, I'm always a cheerleader for everyone to have a good quality of life. So I want to say thank you personally for this plan being into the works and coming right on time with what we need.
 But with that, I will pause first of all, to see where there is a recommendation from the committee this evening. Yes, President McBride, this came this neighborhood plan came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much. At this time, I would open it up to council to see if you have any questions or comments at this time.
 Counselor Lee. Yes, Mr. Corcoran, as we're talking about revitalizing that Linden area in the Kennedy Park area and we're talking about bringing in businesses along that street, what type of businesses are we looking at?
 Well, there were, the neighbors had a lot of suggestions and from bowling helis and arcades and other and corner stores and places for potentially like fresh food and vegetables. But I think what we want to do is we set the framework in which new business can grow there. And we want to work with the neighborhood and potential folks who are looking to revitalize some of the buildings that are there, but also.
 Also, we're going to need new buildings to be built and work with those people as they come to understand what their ideas are for those buildings. But I think what the plan does is it really sets that framework in place to allow that to happen. The King Center is going to be a huge draw. I mean, I know it's already a draw, but it's going to be even better.
 We have a contract to look at the Linden Avenue streetscape, the street itself, which is something that we've just started. So you couple that with the Coal Line Trail. There's so many great things that are happening here that I hope, and it's our desire that all of these great projects coming together illustrates to the private sector that this is a place that they want to be a part of.
 and then working with them on an individual basis to see what kind of businesses might come here. And it also can be coupled with a facade grant, which is also available for Linden Avenue as well. So there's a lot of different tools that new businesses and new developments can have to play a role in this. Any other questions? Councilor Hamlet.
 Thank you, Mr. Corcoran, for the presentation. Under implementation, and this would be a question, I guess, for any of the plans, but how does the community hold the city to the timeframe that is set up for a number of these things? Sure. Sure.
 So these plans are on the City's and the Planning Department's website. It can be accessed at all times. What we try to do, and we've done for the plans up to this point, is we've put together an evaluation of
 the implementation strategies for previous plans to see where we're at on that as a way for us to know like are we kind of on track. It helps us also look at things where maybe one of the action items perhaps doesn't make sense anymore because of other things that have happened. So there's a little bit of a reevaluation process that goes on too.
 But the main thing for us is to keep ourselves accountable is to re-look at these all the time, a couple of times a year perhaps.
 check off the list when we are able to get something done. But also these plant and plant scorecards are available for council members, whether it's you today or five years from now, and there's other council members here to see where we're at with that. And those would be available to community members, neighborhood associations as well. So those are the tools that I believe will help all of us see where we're at with these things.
 Thank you. Councilor Tomas Morgan. Thank you, President McBride. Thank you, Mr. Corcoran, for your presentation. I want to thank you and your staff for undertaking four neighborhood plans this past year. Having attended meetings of two of the neighborhood plans, I know the...
 the depth of engagement that you solicited, your team solicited and really appreciate all that work. I know it was a heavy lift this year and wanted to acknowledge that publicly. Thank you. I also just wanted to say that it really is for Kennedy Park for all the plans, but this in particular is really exciting to hear the work
 The priorities of the neighborhood and as well over these past months to see how they align with some of the programs that the city has been rolling out. So the improved home repair program, the planning of the I have a dream center, of course, and how we're continuing to promote development and send and buys infill.
 So those are really exciting. It's no mistake that a lot of these things have come together, the pre-approved plans or the sewer lateral program. All of this is part of this broad conversation that we've had with residents, small-scale developers over the past two to even five years, really. Yes. Thanks. Thank you. Any other council?
 Is there questions or comments you want? I'm opening up for both. Oh, for both. Okay. We just wanted to thank you again, as I stated during the committee meeting, that timing is just so interesting because now we're going to start the conversations with South Bend 2045. So a lot of the concepts.
 and the planning strategies really support what is already occurring within our city in the plan. So just want to thank you and your staff as Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan has stated, it's a lot of heavy lifting to get it to this point. So I'm very appreciative. Thank you. With that being said, I will now turn to the public to see if there are any comments, if someone is one to speak in favor of this resolution.
 Clerk Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? I don't see anyone in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this resolution. I'll open it up for in-house. Is there anyone that would like to speak in favor? Please come to the microphone and state your name and address, please. My name is Marilyn Gashaw. I live at 2514 Kenwood.
 South Bend, Indiana. So I do live within Kennedy Park. Once again, I have more of a question. I see all of this happening around Linden Street. Kennedy Park neighborhood is very large. And so my question would be, do we have plans for Olive Street? Do we have plans for Bendix Drive, which is all Kennedy Park?
 So there are, I believe in Bendix, we're looking at ways that we can extend some of the work that we've done in the northern part of Bendix and look at ways that we can continue that south. Although a lot of that depends on funding. We were able to secure funds from MACOG to do the first part of Bendix, but so far I'm not sure that's made it on their list yet.
 Olive Street is another major corridor. We've looked at all the major streetscapes through there. So there are elements of either pedestrian safety issues or
 or intersection improvement plans for all those major corridors. And so, yeah, we kind of took a really broad brush approach to that and hope that over time, because it will take time to address these streets as they come up. And especially if we can coordinate them with streetscape paving projects that are going to happen anyway. So we try to coordinate with public works on those as they do come up.
 Thank you for your response and thank you for your question. Is there anyone in the virtual audience that would like to speak against this resolution? There's no one in the virtual audience that is seeking to speak against this resolution. Is there anyone in the present would like to speak against? Now this portion, the public portion is now closed. I will turn back to counsel for any final comments.
 If not, pass the alert, Lee. I just want to say thank you, Tim, for the presentation. I'm excited about this. I didn't live in the Kennebark area, but I was there at the Martin Luther King Center all the time.
 I remember some of the days of businesses being there and what it meant to our community. So to see the investment going over to that area and to see the thought that's being put into it, I'm excited to actually see that come to pass and that area really get the economic impact or uplift that it needs today.
 And I think it's going to help to spread throughout the rest of the area and continue to make South Bend a better place to live. So I just want to say thank you for the presentation. And I'm excited about this. Thank you. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion for Resolution 2243. I'd like to move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2243 has been adopted. We are now at bills on first reading.
 This portion of the council meeting where bills will be filed as proposed resolutions, the title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk, a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review.
 and recommendations is then given. During this public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name and address. Oh, nope, I'm sorry. We just did resolutions. I'm on first readings. Oh, I'm tired. Clerk Jones, would you please give bill number 5222 a first reading?
 Yes, 5222, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property, the southeast half, 120 feet of the alley extended between Good Place and Blyler Place, roughly parallel to Riverside Drive in the City of South Bend area, commonly known as Keller Park neighborhood.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send bill number 5222 to Public Works and Property Vacation for public hearing and third reading on 1010. So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion's carried. Clerk Jones, would you please give substitute bill 5322 a first reading?
 53-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, an ordinance fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the calendar year 2023. I would like to entertain a motion to send Substitute Bill 53-22 to Personnel and Finance Committee on 9-27 and for Public Hearing and Third Reading on 10-10.
 So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Motion is carried. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 5422 a reading, please? 5422, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2023. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 5422 to personnel and finance, public hearing, and third reading on 1010.
 So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Oh, we'll do it by acclamation. All in favor. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 5522 a first reading?
 5522, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2023 and 2024. Thank you, motion to send Bill 5522 to Person on Finance, public hearing at 3rd Regan on 1010. So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5622 a first reading? 5622, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Police Department for calendar years 2023, 2024, and 2025. Thank you. I entertain a motion for Bill 5622, the person on finance, public hearing, and third reading on 1010.
 So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motions carried. Clerk Jones, please give bill 5722 a first reading. 58. 58. 5822. 5822, which is a substitute bill. 5822, first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the South Bend city clerk for calendar year 2023.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to move substitute Bill 5822, Personnel and Finance, on 927 and for public hearing and third reading on 1010. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any nays? Motion is carried. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 5922 a first reading.
 59-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2023 in conformity with ordinance number 10863-22 and amending the city residency incentive section 2 of that ordinance. Thank you. I will entertain a motion for Bill 59-22 for personal finance and public hearing, a third reading on 10-10.
 So move second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motions carried. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 6022 a reading.
 6022, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2023. I would like to entertain a motion for Bill 6022 for personal and finance and public hearing and third reading on 1010. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded, all in favor? Aye. Any opposition?
 The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6122 a first reading? 6122, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2023. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 6122 to person on finance and public hearing and third reading on 1010.
 So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. At this time, we will move to unfinished business. Is there any additional unfinished business from council? See none. Is there any new business? Councilor Hammond. Thank you.
 Earlier this week, we did a press conference to introduce the Neighborhood Fridge Program, which is a partnership between VPA and Cultivate Food Rescue. There have been, since that press conference, several offers for donations to help or assist in buying additional freezers for other community centers, so I am in the process of finding
 figuring out what would be the best process for people to send in those donations or do them online or whatever is allowed and convenient for everyone. And Clerk Jones said that that information could be added to the council page just to answer any questions moving forward.
 If I may, I don't know if you've talked to, have you talked to administration about the process or been engaged? It's in the very early stages. I talked to Mr. Palmer this evening, just as he was allowed. I'm not sure what the process for that would be. And I definitely suggest that because there is a process that has to be followed. That's beyond the scope of the council. Definitely. And that definitely has to come from administration for,
 staffing and health concerns and things of that nature so i definitely would encourage that that process uh takes place that that whole process needs to
 Go in in conjunction with a conversation with the administration because there are things that's beyond that scope that health department issues and things of that nature is involved. So I would recommend that you get with administration to have a dialogue with them because it's a collab would be a collaboration. We just can't do it. Some things we can't do on our own. It has to be a discussion with administration.
 I talked to BPA, but I think it needs to be a bigger conversation. I just had a conversation with them a couple of days ago. So if you could just please get with them, then that would definitely help the process along. I believe. Thank you so much. I have something president McBride. Yes. There's going to be an eviction ceiling clinic tomorrow. It's going to be from one to four at the downtown public library and
 I'm going to be helping with the clinic. What that is, is basically for people who have been through the process of an eviction but found it dismissed or it was found in their favor, it is still on their record. So when they go to get housing, people see eviction, what they're not doing is looking all the way down to see that it's been dismissed or found in their favor and it's barring them from housing.
 So there's Judy Fox with the law clinic out of University of Notre Dame and a couple other individuals. Sorry, I don't have them right in front of me, but they're all will be working on this. It's not an expungement, but it's a ceiling to where they can't see that on their record anymore.
 So it's very exciting. We're going to be doing another one on October the 11th at Howard Park So I did put on my Facebook page if I would encourage the council members if you get on there and share it I think outreach in the community is important especially as we start getting into the winter months
 Counselor Lee. Yes. As you guys know, last October, October the 7th, my nephew, Tyler Brown, was shot right out on the corner of Elmer. I mean, Elwood and Johnson right in front of my church, actually.
 With much prayer from community members and everybody, he recovered and is doing well. And so on October the 8th from 11 to 2 p.m., we're going to hold a, it's called a celebration, a rebirth event.
 of his opportunity in life. And we're going to bring gun victim survivors together and social services will be a part of this. And we're going to do a big event at the Kingdom Christian Center from 11 to 2.
 just to celebrate and also talk about the importance of people understanding the impact that gun violence has. And, you know, he was very fortunate to be able to recover and it's doing really well. But not a lot of people get that opportunity. So we want to bring survivors and people together and it's going to be a day of celebration.
 that he's alive and wanting to do something to impact the community. Thank you, anyone else? At this time, I will go to the privilege of the floor. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and address and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda tonight.
 The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual doing the privileges of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of city administration for review of topics assigned and shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting. Is there anyone wishing to speak with the privilege of the floor? There's no one in the virtual audience that's wishing to speak on privilege of the floor.
 Thank you. With that, I call this meeting adjourned. Good night.