SPEAKER 1 SPEAKER 2 SPEAKER 3 SPEAKER 4 SPEAKER 5 SPEAKER 6 SPEAKER 7 SPEAKER 8 SPEAKER 11 SPEAKER 12 SPEAKER 13 SPEAKER 14 SPEAKER 15 SPEAKER 16
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and your address in the chat, and you will be called on during that relevant time. You will be given five minutes to speak.
 during the public input. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time. And the council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during the privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome Francois Bayangana from Zion Temple, Michiana for our invocation. Welcome.
 Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you tonight. We thank you for this wonderful city and the people. We thank you, Father, for the Common Council, all the members. Tonight, we pray that you will give them your wisdom, your knowledge and understanding as they make decisions to make your people better in a city,
 We pray for peace. Father, we pray for unity and reconciliation. We ask you that you will be with them tonight as they discuss and make decisions for the best of this city. In the name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. At this time, we'll stand for the pleasure.
 By the allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, and with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. At this time, Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please? Yes. Councilmember Davis. Here. Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Here. Councilmember White. Present.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. We have a present. Councilmember Wax is absent. Thank you. At this time, we have the reports from the subcommittee on minutes for July 11th, July 25th, August 6th, and August 26th. Report of the subcommittees on
 Subcommittee on Minutes to the Common Council of the South Bend Subcommittee on Minutes has inspected the minutes of the July 11th 2022 July 25th 2022 August 6th 2022 and August 22nd 2022 and found them to be corrected. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you so much. At this time. Would I like to entertain a motion from the council.
 Or is there a report from the subcommittee? Councilor Warner? I have no report other than what Clerk Jones said, that the minutes have been inspected and approved. Okay. Thank you. Is there a motion for the minutes to be accepted? I make a motion to accept the minutes from July 11th to 25th.
 August the 6th and August the 22nd that have been reviewed by Councilmember Warner. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please? Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Laskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Kate Ives. Thank you. We will move on. Now I'd like to entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole. So moved. Second. There's been a motion on the floor and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes.
 council member lee hi council member warner all right council member whack i'm sorry council member white aye council member tomas morgan hi council member hammond hi vice president mcgotsky hi council member david president mcbride hi
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session and this is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 50-22 a second reading?
 50-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 832 South Bend Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 4 in the City of South Bend. All right. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bills that's before us. Committee report. Committee report. I'm sorry. All right.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair, there is. Bill 50-22 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present? And I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator with the City of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building.
 The petitioner is seeking a special exception for the property at 832 South Bend Avenue, which is effectively the corner of South Bend and North Notre Dame Avenue. It's currently a vacant lot, but over the years it's been a wide variety of originally industrial and later commercial uses, hence the zoning classification of NC Neighborhood Center.
 The comprehensive plan recently reviewed by the plan commission would call for this to be a medium density residential. That plan is likely to come to you guys within the next couple months.
 The petitioner would like to build a single family home here. It's effectively because of the size of the lot not practical to build a mixed use building here. Parking is a challenge. We look, they looked pretty hard at how they could do it and it wasn't very likely.
 The NC Neighborhood Center, though, if they retain that, does offer them some added advantages of lot coverage and setbacks that would be more conducive. The construction of the single-family home here would fit in well with the neighborhood. It would be a less intense use than what would be allowed otherwise within that district, and it's compatible with the proposed Northeast Neighborhood Plan requirements.
 On the screen is the site plan shared this afternoon on a potential layout. I haven't studied this extensively, but it does appear that it would meet the ordinance. We would have to check with engineering. There are plans by the city to improve this intersection, which would include a raised intersection and a four-way stop. So any concerns about line of sight would be mitigated by those efforts.
 This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. Reactivating the site with a single family home would strengthen the neighborhood and fit well in with the character without having adverse effects. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Alright, Councilmembers, do you have any questions? And I do have a representative of the petitioner here as well. Alright, could you please state your name and your address?
 My name is Greg Sharon with a Danch Harner and Associates 1623 Commerce Drive, South Bend, IN. Just representing the petitioner Shamrock Relative Group LLC tonight for approval of a special exception to allow one unit dwelling on property that is owned NC Commercial on South Bend Ave and Notre Dame Ave. We feel the project is a great opportunity
 And fill a vacant piece of property in South Bend and fill that it would be appropriate in the neighborhood. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? If not, at this time, we're going to go into the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 50-22? I don't see anyone that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 50-22? There was no one present to speak in opposition as well. At this point, then the public hearing on Bill 50-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? If not, I'll entertain a motion. I'd like to move for passage of Bill 50-22. Send it to the council with a favorable. Sorry. Fine.
 I'll second the motion to send Bill 50-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right. There is a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Bill 51-22 has been tabled until December the 12th. 12th, 12th, 12th, 12th. All right, so we'll go on to Bill 52-22. Clerk Jones, would you please give 52-22 a second reading?
 Yes. 5222, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, vacating the following described property. The southeast half, 120 feet of the alley extended between Good Place and Blyler Place, roughly parallel to Riverside Drive in the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as the Keller Park neighborhood. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee today, and it was sent to the Committee of the Whole with no recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and your address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Thank you. My name is Myra Reed. I'm an attorney at Anderson Augustino & Keller, 131 South Taylor Street, South Bend, Indiana. I represent the petitioner, Chris Boardman.
 who would like to vacate a portion of his alley next to his home. It looks like we're pulling up the bill now. If we could go to page eight, one more down, please. Is that eight? Okay. As you see in the picture here, the yellow highlighted portion is the portion that Mr. Boardman would like to vacate. It's between Good Place and Blyler.
 And that portion is a portion of the alley that is not properly maintained by the city. It is definitely an eyesore. It is hard for the residents to go in and out of that portion of the alley. So Mr. Bortman, along with the other residents of that area, have come together and came to an agreement that that portion should be vacated.
 And the residents in the plot numbers 51, 50, 49 have all entered into a written agreement with Mr. Boardman. It has been submitted stating that they were in favor of vacating that portion. Mr. Boardman will be financially handling anything necessary in order to vacate that. All maintenance is currently done by the residents and they will.
 come together with Mr. Boardman being financially responsible to make sure that that alley is maintained so that they're able to utilize it properly. Also, if you look at the alley, that portion that is not highlighted yellow, I know there is concern with the turn there. That turn that's in between Blyler and the alley is almost the exact same turn or the angle that you see
 If you look up between Blyler and Academy, if you can see that street there, I don't know if it's clear in the picture. So if you, I don't know if we can get an arrow on that yellow highlighted portion. If you follow that line down, all the way down, and we get to this alley here, that angle, that turn would be almost identical as the other alley.
 So there will be no difference there. We were talking about utility use. Of course, there will be access for any utility vehicle to utilize that area. The main purpose would be just to vacate in order so that they can properly maintain it and utilize that portion of the alley. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill
 52-22. I don't see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone here in person that would like to speak in favor of Bill 50? Please come and state your name and address for the record. Thank you. My name is David Laughlin, 2017 Riverside Drive. I'm the adjacent property owner to the alley on the other side of Mr. Boardman's property. Thank you.
 And I would simply encourage the full council to give this a favorable consideration. Since they've suspended the pickup of refuge and recycling from the alleys, none of the city trucks use these alleys anymore. And they've in essence become abandoned. This doesn't service any other garages or property in the area. And it would...
 Saved me a lot of time as well as Mr. Alt, who resides in lot 54 on the map there. He mows one half of the alley on Bliler. I take the good side and we'd save our chainsaws and our weed whackers and our lawnmowers a lot. The city has been out. They declined to pave the alley.
 with the ammunition that if they tried to do so, it would leave three-foot-high balls of sod that they weren't willing to come and pick up out of the alley. So, the road grader simply left this past year when they came out to do it. That's all I have to say. If there's any questions, I'd be glad to entertain them. All right. Clark Jones, is there anyone online or in person that would like to speak in opposition for this
 I don't see anyone online that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill. At this point, the public hearing for Bill 52-22 is now closed. Council members. Oh, oh, here we go. Good afternoon. Angela Smith, zoning administrator for the city of South Bend with offices located on the 14th floor of this building.
 There's several reasons why the Department of Community Investment, City Engineering, and Board of Public Works are in opposition to the alley vacation. The alley, if vacated, half of each of the alley goes to the adjoining property owners. It's not like it suddenly becomes part of one of the properties or the other. While they're all in agreeance, there are other properties along this block that access and use that alley and do not have driveways, so that provides cross-access for them as well.
 In terms of the utilities, when the vacation, if it were to pass, goes through,
 Even though a utility easement is maintained, that is not recorded in a plat or anything that's made available to the building department. So what we frequently see is when there's utilities in the alley, such as these, and it's vacated, a property owner will come in and show that they own all that plus half the alley, and structures are often built over or in the utility easements, which create problems for the utility companies when they have to service those utilities.
 So without a subdivision, that's not possible to kind of note that to the building department. Also, without a cross-access easement, which was not included in today's application, the other property owners that access this alley would not have access. Not only would the city require the removal of the curb cut for the current alley, it's very possible that the city on their own would reestablish the curb as it's no longer a public alley and no longer should be treated as such.
 There are mechanisms by which the property owners can improve and pave their alleys. There's a program that...
 My neighbors and I are currently investigating, for instance, to pave our entire stretch of the alley. There are some requirements, as there should be, to ensure water does not shed onto the public streets. But there are avenues by which you can maintain your alley without vacating it. At this time, the Department of Community Investment, Engineering, and more importantly, the Board of Public Works recommends the alley vacation be denied. Thank you. Would you like to respond to that at all?
 Yes, there were there were definitely steps taken in order to attempt to remedy the situation by, I believe, all the residents in that area, whether they called code enforcement or as you heard another resident state, they had someone there to actually pave or like gravel down but they said they're not touching it.
 So we believe that how much longer will it be before they're able to properly utilize something that the city has abandoned? As far as the utilities, they've stated it's not an issue. They will continue to maintain that easement and have access to that portion of the alley. There would be really no difference except for the ownership would pass to the neighbors who would be able to basically decide what they can and can't do.
 for that portion, that there's any, um, type of, uh, approvals needed, whether to build a garage or a pave or whatever, that is something that they will be able to take on in the future. That's not what they're requesting at this moment. At this moment, they're just asking to vacate that alley in order to, uh, basically, um,
 provide or take away the eyesore that it's there and also help the utilization of that that portion which only they use. We had a resident 50 years' grievancy state that no one uses that portion. And so the people who are really concerned about it are the people who are utilizing that portion. And it's a small section that does not hinder anyone else from utilizing that alley, any other portion of the alley and the main streets.
 All the access to the properties are on the main roads. And so there's not a huge need to go through that small portion of the alley to access any of the neighboring homes. That's our response. All right. At this point, the public hearing for Bill 52-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements? Councilman, Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Sorry. Thank you. That's fine.
 Just a couple of statements. I know it's a point of frustration for a lot of residents, but the maintenance for the alleys is the responsibility of the residents that border the alleys. And we hear this time and time again on the council that people are frustrated with the fact that they have to tend to these alleys.
 But that is the current state of affairs. If we tried to vacate every piece of alley property that people were frustrated with because they had to tend to, we would be vacating almost all of the alleys in the city. People are just not terribly happy about the fact that they are asked to tend to those alleys. Secondly, I would point out that.
 Tending to the alleys has been addressed in this budget that we'll be voting on this evening, and the Public Works Department is going to be doubling the size of the group that will be tending to alleys.
 So they will be able to spend a lot more time tending to these areas that, again, are creating frustration for the residents. And hopefully this will be an area that we won't have to have so many folks coming before the council to discuss with us. Anyone else? All right. I just would like to say that, you know, I've been out to the place and I saw it and.
 It is a it's it's it's a it's a barren piece of property that that's not being utilized. So I certainly understand why residents would want to get together and decide to to take this on or try to pave it. The mud and all the stuff that goes along with that, the weed whacking and maintaining it. So I certainly understand why they would.
 Are there any other options for this group to be able to do something that could serve the benefit of maintaining this and paving it without it being vacated?
 Thank you. And I hate to make you keep walking up here. That's okay. It doesn't hurt nearly as bad as it looks until it gets caught on a chair like earlier today. There are several options. Property owners are entitled to, as I have, lay gravel to fill in low spots.
 My neighbors and I get together every year and trim the shrubs back and kind of put weed killer on it. But the city also does allow if a group of property owners wishes to pave their alley, you can ask the city for permission to pave your alley. They provide you the standards, you hire the job, you pay for it, you get it done.
 They just don't, they won't pay for the cost to pave it. But property owners, whether it's in place or vacated, have that right. So vacating the alley for the purposes of paving it is not necessary. Okay. All right. Would you want to respond to that? I would like to know the program's name and how readily available that would be. What is the process? How long would that take? Would it be a 12-month process or...
 Uh, there's no program name. You simply have a contractor come out, provide you a quote, you submit it to, uh, engineering for review, uh, to make sure it complies with the specifications, and then you can construct it whenever you want. All right. Well, now that we've heard, uh, from both sides, I will now entertain a motion regarding bill 52-22.
 oh yes counselor white i'm going to ask the attorney who's speaking on behalf of petitioner would you be willing to get additional information in regards to paving the alley we would definitely get um we will be willing to get additional information and i believe the petitioner is it's not saying the only purpose is to pave or to build a garage and he wanted me to clarify that um
 IT REALLY IS AN EYESORE ALL THE WAY AROUND EVEN DESPITE THE PAVING AND HE WOULD GO TO THE NECESSARY STEPS IF PAVING IS POSSIBLE. BUT I'M SURE HE WOULD BE VERY INTERESTED IN FIGURING OUT SOME OTHER ALTERNATIVES IF THERE ARE, BUT I BELIEVE THAT THEY'VE ATTEMPTED TO AND HAVE BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL FOR QUITE A WHILE. SO. ALL RIGHT. COUNCILMAN DAVIS, DID YOU HAVE YOUR HAND UP? YEAH, I DID. BUT YOU KNOW, I THINK I'M A BIT LOST AND I'M PROBABLY GOING TO ASK SOMEBODY
 the program that you just talked about and you also said that the council is going to vote in a budget today if all goes well that's going to help satisfy the request that's being asked am I correct you said that okay yeah
 Ms. Hammond said I can't speak to what's being put into the budget. I believe that has to do with grading alleys. It's more about the leveling out of alleys, that they're doubling the efforts to do that. Because we understand that without the trash trucks going down there, there is less traffic that does...
 help keep all of that stuff down. But the there's no specific program per se for the paving. You simply have to get the estimate yourself, take it to the Board of Public Works through engineering to figure out if it meets the specifications. Again, one of the key factors drainage, so it has to be sloped properly so that you're not shedding your water into the public right of way. So they're just looking to make sure it meets basic construction specifications.
 They approve it. You do the work. You maintain it just like you would whether it was unpaved. All right. Thank you.
 Yes. Question that spins off of that, I guess. I'm sorry to extend this. I usually try to not extend dialogues. So I live in a neighborhood that is built about the time of this neighborhood, and the gas line runs down the alley. I've been on Google Earth, and it looks like some of the houses, not all the houses, the gas meter is in the back or at least near the back half. What's the likelihood that the gas line here is running down the alley, and would that prevent paving?
 We strongly believe that the gas line is in the alley as our electrical line. Sure looks like it from Google. It would not prevent paving.
 So, again, I've seen several alleys that are paved that have it. It just simply means that if NIPSCO or AEP or anybody had to get in there, you're responsible to put it right back. So they don't ever take on the cost of that. That is something that the property owners adjacent to you are responsible for replacing. All right. Once again, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 52-22.
 Excuse me. Move for favorable recommendation. Second. All right. Wait, I didn't hear the motion. Did you say motion or just a pass? No, I said I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 52-22. And Councilman Davis said he moves for it to be favorable. That has to go first.
 All right. Once again, Council, what's your pleasure? All right. Motion dies. Now we're up for another discussion. Another motion. This motion, I want to make sure that I make a motion to continue this bill that's before us and to give them opportunity to meet with the various departments and to see if they can come up with a different option.
 it's a second all right i believe there's a time i don't know if i could do a ms asking would the petitioner be open for that would you be open to requesting it yes there is a 30-day time limit and it's filed for state law if the petitioner requests to table is it extended correct i request that it's tabled all right there has been a motion and it's been second
 Clerk Jones, please call the roll. I would do a point of order, I think. And I see you were about to speak. Go ahead, Mr. Paul. We need to date and cert. We need to date it? Yeah, we need to date cert and that it's table two. Okay. So we need to table this till... I think Council Member White will pick a date. It was her motion. I would, if we're within the 30-day...
 timeline i would say that we should i'm making a motion to table it until uh the first meeting in november and i have to give you that date because i don't have it right in front of me just to clarify uh councilwoman white if the petitioner requests the extension the 30 days doesn't matter okay um to give her ample to give the petitioner ample time i would say that
 I would request that this bill be tabled until I can't find my date until November, which is the first meeting that we will have in November 14th. Second. All right. It's been it's been a motion and it's been second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Aye. Nay. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 hi hi good thank you so this motion uh bill 52-22 has been tabled to november the 14th uh next clerk jones will you give substitute bill 53-22 a second reading okay this is third substitute third substitute i'm sorry
 5322, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2020. All right. Is there a committee report? I have to accept the question. I'm sorry. I want to make a motion that we accept the third substitute. So moved. Second. All right.
 Clerk Jones please call the roll. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Aye. President Nieskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Did you say this is the third substitute? There's some. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Is there a committee report?
 yes there is chair um Bill 53 the third substitute Bill 53 22 was heard in personnel and finance today and was given no recommendation to the committee of the whole all right as the petitioner president I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us Don Jones City Clerk fourth floor the reason why uh this bill is a substitute is because the first the first
 bill that we addressed, we asked for 5% increase with educational reimbursement as well as professional services and that we didn't, I was advised to change that. So I did to 3% and took,
 Since the mayor declined educational benefits in the professional services, it became a second substitute. The purpose in it being a third substitute is because we sent out the second substitute with the previous agenda and we sent it out to review to the department heads and the department head did not turn in the review before we sent out the final. So we didn't know that.
 It was we needed to do another substitute. Therefore, that's why we have the third substitute. And because we reduced from we reduced the salary request from five percent to three percent. All right. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner seeing them?
 At this time, we'll go to the public portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of third substitute bill 53-22? I don't see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Okay. At this point, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of third substitute bill 53-22? There is no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 3rd, Substitute Bill 53-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements?
 Sure. I just wanted to clarify why I was laughing. During the process of this entire year and just legislatively, this council has frowned upon the idea of second substitute, third substitute. It's just a tool. And I just want to remind us that at some point in time here recently, we really had it out between us about so many substitute filings.
 the idea of legislation is never perfect and it happens that way sometimes and so substitutes are designed to accommodate any changes um that either a petitioner or legislator is trying to make on behalf of whomever they are making these decisions with so it was funny to me but i just wanted to point that out i will be supporting this bill anyone else
 If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding third substitute bill 53-22. I make a motion to send 53-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. We've had a motion that's been seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Misgavsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Brown.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. President Negron. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Third substitute bill 53-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. All right. Clerk Jones, can you give 54-22 a second reading? 54-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2023.
 uh is there a committee report uh yes there is chair um 5422 was heard in personnel and finance today and it was given a given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole all right is the petitioner present i said you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding this bill that's before us chairman bride president of the county council for 15 east broadway fourth floor of the county city building
 I would just like to state that I have asked for a 3% increase for council salary in line with all other non-bargain employees. Council members, is there anyone that would like to ask any questions to the petitioner? If not, at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 54-22?
 there's no one expressing interest to speak in favor of bill 5422. is there anyone on online or in person uh looking to speak in opposition to 54-22 there's no one in um the public virtually that's expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill
 all right at this point the public hearing portion for bill 54-22 is now closed council members would you like to make any statements if not i'll entertain a motion i would like to make a motion to send bill 54-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation second all right the bill has there's been a motion in a second clerk jones please call the world vice president niskowski
 Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 54-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 55-22 a second reading?
 55-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar years 2023 and 2024. Is there a committee report? Sorry, I just switched mics.
 Yes, Chair. Bill 5522 was sent to the Committee of the Whole with no recommendation. Okay. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us.
 Yes, thank you. Councilmember Lee, Dan Parker, city controller. My office is on the 12th floor of this building, so the the bill before you 5522 is the salary ordinance for members of the South Bend Fire Department for 2023 and 2024 as we talked about in committee this afternoon.
 This bill follows exactly the bill that was passed last year for 2022 following negotiations with the fire union. With one exception, this bill does add a rank lieutenant.
 which currently in the proposed bill has the same salary as the captain rank. And as we talked about, I did speak with the fire chiefs during the break, and we have Assistant Chief Brandon Rourke on the line who can give us a little bit of background on what we're trying to do with that lieutenant rank and what the plan is going forward with that. I'm sorry, I froze up there a little bit. Is this are you throwing it to me, Dan? No.
 Yep. Go ahead, Chief. Very much so. Assistant Chief Brandon Rourke, South Bend Fire Department with Miles, located at 1222 South Michigan Street. What we're trying to do with the lieutenant rank is many years ago when the fire department had two shifts operating, working 24 hours on, 24 hours off, they added a third shift. And in doing so, increased the number of captains.
 In that process, we became really top-heavy in CAP. There's now fire departments across the country. Normally, that rank structure would follow firefighter,
 pump operator, lieutenant, captain, battalion chief. So by putting the lieutenancy into the ordinance, it allows us to start that foundation work of establishing the, for lack of a better term, a proper chain of command for our operations division. Currently, the impact on the organization, the way it would, it currently looks like we have about,
 62 captains in our operations division, that number would be reduced to between 16 and 20. And then over a period of many years, we would then work in the lieutenants as we promote them. We would do this through attrition of the current captains, potentially with a sunset date. All of this would have to be negotiated with the local. But getting that lieutenancy into the ordinance allows us to start that framework.
 for getting our rank structure where it needs to be. So I'll be happy to entertain any questions that we might have. Okay. House members, do you have any questions? Councilwoman, Vice President Naskowski. Thank you, Chair. Yes. My question is, if this will be negotiated, so to speak, or discussed with the Firefighters Union members,
 Why would we want to do this now and not wait until we negotiate the next contract? Generally speaking, the reason we want to get this into place now is currently we have a captain's list that we just made that's good for two years. It'll take us close to the end of the current labor contract.
 By waiting until that contract, we might have to do another captain's promotion, which is going to, when that bill comes before you, without having this rank in our ordinance, be.
 Well, it'll be pushing that captain list an additional two years. So then we're forecasting at least probably four to five years before we could start implementing this program. So it's something that the fire department's been looking at doing for as long as I've been a member of the organization. It's just nobody's been willing to tackle it yet. So that's why we would like to get the lieutenancy into the ordinance now. And so when this contract comes up, we can immediately implement it.
 Councilman Warner. Yeah, so I have a, I guess my kind of legal analysis would be, what does the collective bargaining agreement address this? I tried to quickly skim through it. It didn't look like lieutenants were included in the CBA. So I think the, as our union rep said earlier, I think there's a good argument to be made that to add this
 Rank would require a change in the collective bargaining agreement.
 We actually, we do have lieutenancies in the organization right now. Those were previously, they were EMS lieutenants. So that actually, that rank actually still exists. What we would be proposing, though, is that this lieutenancy is the exact same pay scale as the captaincy, until at which point we decide to implement that. And if you look at the budget, then those, the captain and lieutenant is at the same pay scale.
 So it's really essentially just a name change. It doesn't affect anybody's salary. It doesn't affect anybody's income or anything like that. All right, anyone else? Councilwoman Laurie Hammond. Thank you. Chief, one of the concerns...
 when this was presented earlier this afternoon, is that this was not addressed with the union prior to it coming before the council. Can you speak to that, please? Yes, ma'am. So it was our previous legal counsel's position that
 This did not need to go before the union. We had already done the contract and we were setting up the framework to do this in the future contract. So by getting that in there now,
 uh getting that title into the ordinance now it allows us to do that the the position of captains is not necessary it's not negotiated um except in the context of the wage package so um those job descriptions and everything else falls back onto the job descriptions um that that the union you know subscribes to i don't know if that answers your question okay i'm just wondering if
 Wouldn't have been a smoother process had that conversation been had. I understood if we were the position of the administrative chiefs was if we weren't able to get this, then it wasn't a conversation worth traveling because it didn't exist. Right. So by getting this into the ordinance, it allows us to engage into that conversation and engage into the implementation plan for the lieutenancies.
 all right yes ma'am uh thank you chair i just have one additional question um so if if um what do you think about now in in reference to engaging the membership as far as the local
 Yes, I've had numerous conversations off the record with with the leadership of the local. I mean, this is not a surprise to them. It's been engaged. We have not addressed them in the labor management area.
 meetings about it, nor did we do it in the negotiations other than the fact that it's well known that this is the avenue that we're wanting to travel. And there's been no secrecy about that either. All right. We just had, you know, we just had someone from the union that came here today who said they didn't know anything about this. And so
 Oh, he's here. Okay. So that was a concern for all of us, especially something as big as this being talked about and not being a surprise. But I do remember the chief mentioning this in his presentation when he made his budget presentation. Yes, okay.
 All right. Clerk Jones, is there anyone here? And we're now going to go to the public portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 55-22? There's no one from the public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone from the public that's wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one from the public. Oh, I'm sorry. I ask that you state your name and your address for the record.
 Eric Griffin, Vice President, Firefighters Local 362. Our office is at 425 Lincoln Way West here in South Bend. Can we turn this mic up? Sorry, I talked quietly. I'll try to talk louder. Eric Griffin, Vice President, South Bend Firefighters Local 362, office at 4025 Lincoln Way West. I rise in opposition of this just blatantly.
 guided on the fact that we don't know any implementation on how this is going to go i understand and we spoke to this earlier i understand that this effectively doesn't change anything right now we we have paramedic lieutenants within our ranks uh those are have to be paramedics that are riding on uh ambulances chase vehicles things like that they're not necessarily lieutenants in the aspect that they're wanting to move forward with
 Our concern is that if this moves forward, there's nothing that stops them from implementing it in the context of our rank structure. We don't have the ability to bargain our rank structure or anything like that. We just can talk about wages, that sort of thing. We don't know. While we have had informal conversations, there have not been any formal conversations between the administration and the local...
 in regards to exactly how this would be implemented. To say that this was a surprise, that it was being moved forward, no, because they've been talking about it for years. Like Chief Rourke said, since before I got on the fire department, they've been talking about adding lieutenants. We just never knew how it was going to go down, and to know that it was being read for the first reading was a complete surprise because, again, there was no conversation. We didn't talk about it in negotiations yet,
 We at the time probably would have been in opposition to it just based off the fact that the body is from what I've been told is in general opposition of it. And I'm a steward of the body, so I'm here on their behalf. It does shake up our rank structure quite a bit to add lieutenants in terms of the fact that, as Chief Rourke said, we do have a lot of captains and a sizable amount of those will then become lieutenants.
 while they won't, nothing will change as far as their powers or responsibilities necessarily. A lot of them see that unfavorably. So obviously that's a concern of the body. Again, I think these are concerns that could have been eased given conversations prior to this. It's a little disheartening that even something to this effect of just changing the salary ordinance didn't come forward to us in formal conversations prior to this.
 it coming to the council we are obviously open to those conversations but i don't think that there's an actual plan in place as far as what their intentions are as far as the responsibilities of that officer obviously it's going to be on us as we negotiate our wages to decide how we go forward doing so as far as separating those ranks with wages another concern of ours is that we're going
 putting some of our negotiation efforts into spreading those ranks especially if it's a rank that we aren't necessarily in favor of we could be we just don't really know how it's going to lay out okay again it it more or less uh takes anything out of our hands outside of the fact that uh within our contract our primary personnel are referred to as
 drivers, captains, and the most senior firefighter on that apparatus. Whereas to implement that would require a contract change, but to promote people to lieutenants, to move people from lieutenants or from captains to lieutenants, all that stuff, while they could have those conversations with us prior to doing so, they have the power to do what they will due to their rights of management.
 And also as a sitting member in our Labor Management Committee, none of these conversations have happened yet. Again, this bill changes nothing effectively as of right now. Our concern is just how it will affect the future. And that's completely cloudy from our viewpoint. What's the downside of passing this for you guys as firefighters?
 I can't really speak to that because we don't know what the job description would be as of right now. So I have no idea how it would affect the body at all, positively or negatively. Petitioner, did you want to respond back to that? Yeah, there would be no negative impact to, again, what the union is responsible for is negotiating for safety wages and a fair and equitable work environment.
 passing this bill is not going to impact that at all. So, excuse me, the, the,
 Position of lieutenant would be essentially what captain is now, and then we would institute either a stipend position or a new position, call it senior captain, until all the lieutenants were put in place. Captains through attrition were removed, and then that captain would have administrative responsibility of the firehouse. As it stands right now, each company – and a firehouse has multiple companies –
 Each have a captain. And so what it does for the administration is it gives us a single point of contact for a firehouse for administrative management of that firehouse. It does not change any of the operational aspects of response. And again, just to I mean, this is.
 This is the first step in ensuring that our organization is as streamlined and as efficient as possible and in accordance with like fire departments across this nation. Thank you very much. I think I think we've heard from both sides. And now at this point, the public hearing for Bill 55-22 is now closed.
 Council members, would you like to make any statements at all? Councilman Davis? Sure. I've heard both sides, and I heard the gentleman that's on the virtual part of our meeting. My fear is that the workers apparently feel like they can't trust what may happen next without some sort of understanding or something in writing. I think that's what I heard. That's what I understand. Okay.
 And I don't feel comfortable voting for something if the workers of this city are not comfortable with what they're getting. I think it's within our abilities to hopefully execute a plan that supports the workers as well as the administration. I'm not sure what our powers are right now as it relates to this particular bill. I don't know if we can continue it over, but.
 um maybe get a little bit more something exact in writing I'm not sure but I do not feel comfortable with a worker leaving out of here feeling like they just have been railroaded by the council or the administration because they didn't get what they signed up to get they're out there doing a heavy lifting I'm not anyone else Councilwoman Lori Hammond could we get some clarity um on
 what options we have in terms of perhaps continuing this to the next meeting. Okay. It can be continued until the next meeting. You said it can? It can. And in that time, hopefully the two parties could come together and discuss and provide some sense of security and understanding between those.
 All right. Any other council members like to say anything? Vice President Naskowski, I want to call you Sheila. Thank you, Chair. I guess that for me right now, I would feel a lot better if we could just have the two sides at least have a conversation about this. And I guess what I can't remember is how many firefighters are actually on.
 what's our existing force right now? Because if we have 62 captains currently, and he said after this would be done through, I believe the word nutrition was used, then it would reduce that to a different number
 so that none of these existing firefighters, so there's just too much. I think if we could just have a little more dialogue so we could all be clear. What would you like to say, Mr. Parker? Sorry, I was just going to answer the very specific question of how many firefighters we have, which is 256 in the budget. So we have 256, and of those are 62 captains. Councilwoman White.
 I, too, would be more comfortable in continuing this bill to allow the least administration to meet with the leadership and to have a conversation and to give both sides opportunity to share why they're recommending this, but also to hear from the other individuals and give them opportunity to address some questions.
 Is that a motion? No, it's not a motion. I'm just saying where I'm at. It's a statement. I'll make a motion. We table the bill to October 24th. Second. All right. It's been tabled. I mean, there's been a motion to table it to October the 24th. And it's been second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 uh you always go back to the contract and uh in the contract there's no lieutenants listed uh that gives me great pause so i did i did you say aye aye yes council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond i with the understanding that these two parties will come together vice president of gosby aye president mcbride aye eight eyes all right
 This motion has been tabled until October the 24th, and we will move on to the next bill. Bill number 56-22 has been tabled until October the 24th. Do I have to do anything on that? Okay. All right. We now have a bill, second substitute bill 58-22. Clerk Jones, will you please give it a second reading?
 you have to accept the substitute i have to accept this oh i'm sorry we got to accept the the substitute can i make a motion to accept the second substitute bill second all right there's been a motion and it's been sub second clerk jones will you please call the role council member lee hi hi hi hi council member tomas morgan hi
 aye vice president staff aye council member dave president aye all right is there a committee report to read the bill now oh okay i'm sorry 58 22 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana substitute setting a second substitute setting the annual salary for the south bend city clerk for calendar year 2023
 And yes, I have a report. Yes. The substitute Bill 5822 was heard in personnel and finance and was given no recommendation to the Committee of the Whole.
 Okay. As a petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Don Jones, city clerk, 4th floor, county city building. This bill is a second substitute, and it does the same thing as 5322, where it reduces the increase from 5% to 3% for the city clerk. All right. Council members, do you have any questions about this petition? No.
 All right, at this point, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill, second substitute bill, second substitute bill 58-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of second substitute bill 58-22. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition to second substitute bill 58-22?
 There's no one from the public wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 5822. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 52nd substitute Bill 58-22 is now closed. Council members, do you have any statements that you'd like to make? I make a motion to send Bill 5822 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. The motion has been, there's been a motion to second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Member Warner. Aye.
 member white aye council member aye council member hammond aye vice president ms gaffey aye council member david council member lee aye president aye eight right bill 58-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation clerk jones would you give bill 59-22
 A SECOND READING. 59-22. PUBLIC HEARING ON AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH INDIANA FIXING MAXIMUM WAGES OF TEAMSTAR EMPLOYEES PER CALENDAR YEAR 2023 IN CONFORMITY WITH ORDINANCE NUMBER 1-0863-22 AND AMENDING THE CITY RESIDENCY INCENTIVES AT SECTION 2 OF THAT ORDINANCE.
 All right. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address. I'm sorry, is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 5922 was heard in personal and finance today, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. And is our petitioner here? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding this bill.
 uh thank you uh councilmember lee uh dan parker city controller office on the 12th floor of this building uh so 5922 is the teamsters salary ordinance for our teamster employees for 2023 um as as we talked about in committee this afternoon this bill follows exactly the negotiated agreement which was a three-year agreement for 2022 23 and 24 with one exception it does amend the
 the the city residency incentive for the Teamsters to increase that from $1,000 to $2,000 which is in line with what we are proposing for non-bargaining employees as well but other than that the terms are exactly what was adopted in the current year's salary ordinance but I'm happy to answer any questions all right uh Council members you have any questions none all right at this point we'll go to the public hearing portion um Clark Jones is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of
 There is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 5922. Is there anyone from the public looking to speak in opposition? There is no one from the public seeking to speak in opposition of Bill 5922. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 58-22 is now closed. 59-52.
 I'm sorry, I looked at the wrong one. 59-22 is now closed. Sorry. Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding Bill 59-22? Make a motion to send Bill 59-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Clark Jones, would you call the roll? Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tumas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 59-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Substitute Bill 60-22 a second reading? Motion to accept the Substitute Bill. Second. It's been second. Clerk Jones, call the roll.
 council member white hi council member tomas morgan hi council member hammond aye vice president mcgasky aye council member davis council member lee aye council member president mcbride all right clerk jones will you give uh substitute bill 60-22 yes a second reading
 60-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for the calendar year 2023. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. Substitute Bill 6022 was heard in personal and finance today, and it was sent to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding this bill.
 Yes, thank you. Councilmember Lee Dan Parker again, city controller office on the 12th floor of this building. So I just have again a very brief presentation to go through on Bill 6022, which is the non bargaining salary ordinance for employees of the executive departments for 2023.
 The vast majority of the employees in this ordinance are going to be are proposed to receive a 3% raise in their cap for 2023 in their salary cap for 2023, as well as in addition to proposing for the Teamster employees to increase the city residency from 1000 to 2000. We're also proposing to do that for non bargaining employees in this bill 60-2022. Okay.
 As I said, there's the vast majority of city employees are proposed to receive that standard 3% raise in their salary caps. There are a number of nonstandard changes that were presented during the course of the 13 budget hearings that we had during the 2023 budget process for each department.
 um so so there are proposed to be 19 new ftes in the 2023 non-bargaining salary ordinance and there are 41 employees that uh are proposed to have non-standard increases so something different than that standard three percent um and
 And of those 41, 39 of them are higher than 3% and two are actually below 3%, which are mainly having to do with changing positions and taking an existing position and changing the responsibilities of that position.
 And as I pointed out in committee this afternoon, I did want to make the point that because we have 431 non-bargaining employees in the budget, those 41 employees that are proposed to have non-standard increases represent fewer than 10% of our non-bargaining employees. So the vast majority of non-bargaining employees would receive that 3% salary cap increase. And these ones really are targeted to hard to recruit positions, positions that are hard to retain employees.
 and ones that are very important to making sure that we are executing our strategic priorities. The last thing in the non-bargaining salary ordinance is title changes. Six positions are proposed to receive title changes. Those are existing positions that are simply moving from one title to a new one in the salary ordinance, but receiving that standard 3% raise despite the change in title.
 And again, all six of those, all 41 of the nonstandard increases, and then the 19 new FTEs were all presented in detail during the 2023 budget process. But I'm certainly happy to go into any questions anybody has on those.
 I'm sorry, one more thing. The other thing that I wanted to present, because it was the subject of the substitute bill that was filed on Friday, last Friday, is the Ordinance Violation Bureau. So the non-bargaining salary ordinance for executive departments does add a position, add a title, I should say, to the executive salary ordinance for Ordinance Violation Bureau clerk.
 What this does is it allows us to have a conversation about where the right place for this position to go is. This is an important conversation. The administration has thought that this would be a beneficial thing for a while, at least a year or two.
 to move the Ordinance Violation Bureau from the city clerk's office into the administration. There's a lot of reasons for that. A lot of them have to do with being strategic and streamlining processes and making things easy on our residents and making things really standardized in terms of how processes go, how cash is receded into the city,
 and and making sure that that that that is really standardized uh across the board um the other reasons that have become more prevalent over uh over the last number of months is that we really just have concerns about the way that this this this this
 Department division is being managed right now. No fault at all of the individual in the ordinance Violation Bureau clerk position, but it is suffering from a lack of training and a lack of leadership within the clerk's office. And we believe that the the student
 streamlining of the position, bringing it into the administration would allow that position, that person and that Ordinance Violation Bureau to be what it needs to be for on behalf of our residents and on behalf of our city. So we want to continue this conversation. That being said, this bill does not actually make that change. So this is not the end of the conversation. This is the beginning of the conversation. So the 2023 budget has a position for the Ordinance Violation
 um in the general fund both the city clerk's office and the department of administration and finance are funded from the general fund so regardless of whether this position ends up in 2023 being in the city clerk's office or the department of administration and finance the funding is there in the 2023 budget to support that position and we can continue the conversation
 The other thing which is really important to note during committee this afternoon is that this is not the end of the this is not the end of the conversation. As I said, if this change were to be made and if this was something that council agreed was important and beneficial to move into the administration, it would require a separate ordinance and voting on a separate ordinance to change the municipal code specifically.
 that section 2-212. In addition, there's a few other areas, but that would be the main one that designates the city clerk as responsible for the ordinance violation bureau.
 So what this non bargaining salary ordinance does by putting the title into the Executive Department non bargaining salary ordinance, we can have it ready in case we would like to move to that future state where it was a part of the administration, but we would not be able to actually do that until counsel voted on this separate ordinance to change the municipal code. Until that happens, the municipal code designates the city clerk's office as responsible for the Ordinance
 So with that, I did want to just make that as mentioned, since that was the subject of the substitute bill. And I'm happy to answer any questions on any of that. Council members, do we have any questions? If not, I'm going to go to the public portion. Is there anyone from the public wish to speak in favor of substitute bill 60-22? There's no one from the public express an interest to speak in favor of bill 60-22. Okay. Okay.
 Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of Substitute Bill 60-22? I ask that you come to the podium, state your name and your address. Hi, my name is Shayla Kimbrell. I work at the fourth floor, 455 City Clerk's Office. I have my master's degree. I'm very well capable of handling this position that I'm currently serving in, which is the ordinance violations clerk position.
 I wasn't aware of any of a lot of the issues that are being talked about with this particular position, but I would like to entertain the option of further talking about training and furthering the training that they would allow. And I would also just like to sit down and talk about some of the options that I would deem would be helpful in allowing this position to flourish. Thank you. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else?
 please state your name and your address evening council michelle engel 50741 ashford lane attorney for clerk jones just wanted to briefly speak against putting the ovb clerk into the general fund and i speak against this bill why i think it's jumping the gun putting this position
 into the general fund and for possible movement into the mayor's office or the administration, because it hasn't even, it has not been discussed yet. The ordinance has not been discussed. Clerk Jones was elected to run her office, the clerk's office, which includes the Ordinance Violations Bureau. It's been there since, as far as I know, 1988, as far as I remember, the 90s.
 This sudden discussion and jumping the gun, I think, is premature. Second, the way that this has been discussed is as an HR issue. Not here today, this meeting, but in the other public meeting today that I listened to, employees in the clerk's office have been disparaged without due process. I'm concerned about the way this is unfolding.
 My and my third concern. I know that Mr. Parker talks about process and the importance of process. I'm not seeing proper process thus far in the way this has been handled, and it feels a little bit to the clerk like an ambush. So I guess that's those are my comments and my concerns. I think it will be good moving forward to discuss it thoughtfully.
 collaboratively with the clerk's office, with the mayor's office, with the council. You know, possibly it doesn't belong in the clerk's office anymore, but possibly it does. Maybe that's the right place for it, and it has been handled in that office since the 1980s. So those are my comments. I'm speaking against the bill. Thank you. All right. Thank you so much. All right. At this point, the public... No, I'm sorry.
 As I stated before, I think that this is hasn't really been a process.
 I just heard the gentleman before that wanted more conversation regarding the fire department. He said nothing has been discussed with him, and you all granted him time to spend for conversation. I've asked for conversation before this. I've asked Mr. Parker if he was going to talk about getting rid of this position. He told me it's not in this budget.
 But that wasn't actually the truth because he knew moving forward that it was going to be a discussion. However, he didn't let me know as the city clerk that it was going to be a discussion. There have been verbiage that have been used that have not been appropriate in regard to HR, such as something that he just said, it lacks leadership.
 That's an attack on me as an individual. And I know you all read the thing every day or every meeting about people not attacking and not saying things that are against or attacking a personal individual person. Well, I believe I have been attacked when you use words like lack leadership, lack training. I don't know how we lack training when the training comes from administration.
 and administration is supposed to do the training. So if there's any training that's lacked, it's not the city clerk that is lacking that training. It's administration. And my question is, if this position goes into administration, will that person receive training more adequate than what we have received in the clerk's office? That is a concern. Last time we had this conversation, we talked about where would the office space be? I was told that the
 The person would still be in the clerk's office. However, the position would answer to administration. None of this makes sense, and we haven't had a conversation. So I'm going to say in the position of being similarly situated as a previous person that asked for extra money.
 asked for a conversation. I'm asking for a conversation and I don't believe that I'm going to get that conversation once this is passed. If I can be ignored at this time and it hasn't even been passed, I know that I'm going to be even more so ignored if it is passed.
 So I'm asking, I'm speaking in opposition of this bill simply because the process has not been a fair process and words have been used against myself and against my staff that has
 really is unfair, especially to my staff, because they are employees of my office, not the executive. They, the, he said in the beginning, this is for the, to discuss the budget for the executive employees. I understand him asking for the position, but he had no right to discuss my employees and their, and their lack or what he thinks is the lack of them being able to do the position. And I am appalled that he is able to do this.
 right there anyone else at this point the public hearing for substitute bill 60-22 is now closed council members I'll let you make a statement President McBride yes uh thank you and I appreciate the conversation and dialogue and Clark Jones I will uh can assure you that the conversation will take place in fact the conversation that I had with administration that's the reason why it's not been presented tonight
 to move forward but for there to be dialogue between Council the clerk's office and administration so your um uh concerns that you have now that has been that's why it's on record today that there's going to be dialogue and conversation about that so I wanted to make sure that you knew that on record that that conversation took place thank you yeah yeah I just want to um also clarify that
 This is not going to, and I'm just speaking in regards to the position that has been discussed. It is to start the conversations and to, of course, the clerk and the administration and the council will be part of those conversations. They're just putting the dollars in the position. If I'm correct, I'm going to ask Mr. Parker to speak to that, but it's not
 in there to say it's going to happen because there's some other steps that must happen even before we can even if the administration or the council would support that as well so i don't want it to be said that the actions that we'll be taking uh this evening is actually going to take the position there's so much other things that have to be done
 Yes, thank you, Councilmember White. Since you invited me up, I'll respond. Yes, that's exactly right. And so I think I said and I hope I said that what this does is it allows us to start the conversation. Without this in the Executive Department non-bargaining salary ordinance, there is no conversation because you can't actually move the division or the position until that prerequisite is in place.
 But as I said, it is not the end of the conversation. And what would be the actual action that council would take to make this change effective is the ordinance that would change the municipal code and designate the administration as the violations clerk as opposed to the city clerk. That is not this ordinance. So that is not what is actually happening here. This is the attempt to begin that conversation, as you said, President McBride, with council and with the clerk's office. Thank you.
 uh councilwoman laurie hammond thank you mr parker just point of clarity the funds for the um salary for the ordinance violations bureau clerk is currently in the general fund that's right the city clerk's office has been accounted for in the general fund since far far before i started with the city so yes really no movement that's right of money correct
 Councilman Davis. Thank you. I'm just going to point out something that I think that I heard. She's asking for the same type of support from this council that that gentleman out here from the fire department asked for. And I don't think that it will be lost on us and our leadership if we
 didn't give her the same day that gentleman got earlier. It will only be fair that we give her the same consideration that we gave him and his colleagues in the fire department. So, if delaying this a couple weeks gives her the support that she deserves, her and her staff, then why not? It's just a couple weeks out. We gave the gentleman out here the same consideration.
 It's kind of hard to pick and choose winners and losers. So I think we should probably just do all of this decent and in order and the same. Anyone else? Yes. And with the passage of this bill, I believe that's what's happening. So that that does help spur that dialogue that is obviously needed. I think that that would be fair to everyone, including all of us sitting here.
 So I am supportive moving this forward so we can have that dialogue. I think it's important to have everyone at the table and look at it. You know, we just did some revisions to Chapter 2, and it was like 50 years or plus since that had been looked at with all the upgrades and changes that have been made in that time period. So this may be a good time for all of us to sit down, review it.
 and do it in a respectful manner. Now we have people's livelihoods here that obviously care what they work for, where they work. And I think that having that positive dialogue, this is the start to that. So I couldn't agree with you more Councilman Davis. Yeah. Well, what I'm saying is that you don't need that to have a conversation. You don't need that to have a conversation. We're using that to have a conversation.
 What are you talking about? The position that the table, if we're using that for the idea of a conversation, we're in trouble. Our leadership skills should be questioned. We don't need that type of conversation. He's asking for a conversation different than this gentleman asking for a conversation. And he got it. She should get it as well.
 Unless I'm missing something, I think that that is exactly what's happening. And I think the reason why it's being addressed, because this was sent to us as a substitute bill. So being that I had personal dialogue with
 with administration, and it's not coming to us as that substitute bill. It's on the table now as for us to stop, pull back, and have discussion. So to your point, we're doing exactly what you're asking to happen. So we're going tabulous? It's not tabled because this is discussion. The substitute bill that was on the table was to come before us to remove that position. That is not what's in this
 bill. So exactly what you're saying is what's happening. And the second substitute, there's, yes, thank you. Is this, yes. It is the second substitute. It was the second substitute, correct. Is it first? I need to be recognized first. Oh, I'm sorry.
 All right, we'll go to Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan. Again, I mean, it's already been said, but I just want to be really clear on what we're looking at here. The salary, as Mr. Parker said and clarified, Councilwoman Hammond's question is that the salary is in the general fund. It makes no changes.
 We are all committed to ongoing conversation about the OVB. And I appreciate something you just said, Clerk Jones, and a good reminder that, you know, you had said that these positions are in your hands.
 Your office. You are ultimately you are responsible. You are the supervisor responsible for them and you are therefore responsible for the training of your staff. And so I think that all this is just important, ongoing conversation that we all need to have. And this this bill commits us to that. And and we are all committed to that.
 Can you provide clarity? Is this the second substitute?
 so the this bill is the i believe it's the first substitute but there is i i don't know what the conversation was about the second substitute but the what what this bill does is it adds a title to the executive departments it does not remove anything from the clerk's office if that's what the question was there was some conversation about whether we wanted to make the the uh and this is i believe what you were referring to president mcbride whether we wanted to push forward right now with the actual movement
 That that ordinance that we were talking about moving the the OVB from the clerk's office to the administration to the administration based on conversations with Council. The desire was to have a conversation, as Councilman Davis said, as I think all of the council members said. And so that was not moved forward. That is not what this bill does. But I.
 So hopefully that answers the question. It doesn't. Well, it kind of answers my question because you were saying this is not the second substitute. So in the first bill, it wasn't even in there at all.
 So what they're thinking is this is a bill that's pushing a conversation. And what I'm saying that there was no conversation in the beginning with me, the clerk. So what you're doing is you're taking the conversation away from me and you and you're putting it, making it a more open conversation. But it's my office and my position.
 So I don't understand why you're doing this bill. You're still taking the jurisdiction out of the clerk's office. That's incorrect, Clerk Jones. I think, Clerk Jones, if I may speak for a moment, I think the positive thing with it, Clerk Jones, is had the conversation not been had today when I got here at 2.30, 3 o'clock,
 It may be a different situation that it would still be the first bill coming to us for passage. So with me having that conversation and I just got here and then when I saw you, it was time for us to hit the floor. So to stop and have a conversation, you're absolutely right. It's under your jurisdiction, but I.
 have to say that had I not had the conversation, it may be coming to us in the way that you think. Now this stops that from coming to us, and now it opens up dialogue first with you and with the administration. And the reason why council would be involved is because we are the body who could remove that
 So we have to be included in some type of dialogue. So that's the only reason why the council is included in this conversation as far as the ordinance and then want to move it. So I think exactly what you're asking for. We're getting you that opportunity. Yeah, I don't have any issue with that. I understand that part. I'm saying before it got to this part.
 I could do a conversation could have been had absolutely and it would have been I'm not saying I've known that it's in the jurisdiction of the council to vote whether this position is in my office or not that's not what I'm saying I'm not rejecting that at all I'm just saying it
 It was done disrespectfully in attacking my staff and attacking me in my leadership skills and everything. And that wasn't right and it wasn't fair. Point taken. I believe that's the reason why we're putting a pause to it. All right. Is there anybody else? I do need one more point of clarity. I'm sorry. You are establishing the position, but it is or a title.
 In anticipation of the movement. In anticipation of if this change were to be made, this ordinance change that would establish this in the administration instead of the clerk's office, then the title would already be in the salary ordinance. Yes.
 but it is not moved the the the budget to the administration. It does not you council already voted to pass to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. The City Clerk's Office staff ordinance, which included that title.
 So this is already in the city clerk's office ordinance and this does not change that. So I believe what president McBride was talking about is there was some conversation about whether we wanted to push this forward now and get this done. I understand that. I'm just questioning the establishment of- Yes, that's all this does. The title of the position. Is it possible to put a pause on that until the conversation is here?
 Is it possible? Yes. We think that it's not advisable because what this does is this forces the conversation. If you remember what happened last year is we, Councilman Davis, thank you for laughing, but if you remember what happened last year, we removed this from the salary ordinance for the executive departments at the request of council. And here we are a year later and that conversation hasn't happened yet. So we want to have some urgency behind this conversation because we think it's an important one.
 But wouldn't the urgency be you giving a two-week window to have that conversation based upon you not being able to put that title into play? Because that's what you're asking for. So everybody has skin in the game now. If this is table two weeks, if it's not table two weeks, you guys have a one-up. Because...
 you have the ability to come back and access counsel to remove that position from her office, which puts us at odds with our helpmate between the counsel and the clerk's office. So I'm really asking for a slowdown on this because that puts us at odds with her. Now, we can wait two weeks. If it doesn't work out, it just doesn't work out. But it would be really bad politics for us to
 begin this process, she's worried about it being taken out of her office, losing a worker, because we talked about this earlier, losing a worker, and then we're moving forward with the idea that it may happen. Let's just say it's not going to happen until we have a conversation. And it won't happen until we have the conversation. That's the point of the 7th ordinance. No, I'm talking about the title. I keep bringing that back up. Can't play with my words. I'm real good at this.
 The title, the title continues on. The idea of the title continues on. That's the problem. It's not the conversation. It's the title. You're still moving forward on it. No different when this gentleman said what he said. You're still moving forward. I need you to stop before we can move forward together. That's the same thing he asked for. And we gave it to him. Can I say one thing? Hold on.
 We got to get we got to pull this in. So I think we need to make a decision and I will now entertain a motion. We still I'm sorry. OK, anyone would like to say I think it's important that we clarify. I think there's some misunderstanding in regards to what this does and what it does not do. The position is in the clerk's office.
 It will remain there until certain things happen, and it does not mean that it's going to be taken out of the clerk's office. I'm well aware of that. I'm well aware of what's going on. The title, if voted through, is in process of receiving the office or that particular position in the office.
 She's asking that nothing proceeds further until she has a conversation with counsel and administration. I don't see anything wrong with that. I think that's a good idea, actually. But if we vote this through, that title becomes an idea and a real reality for the administration. Now, if I'm wrong or right. I think you're wrong. Only let me say this.
 IT'S ALREADY IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. IT'S ALREADY IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. IT'S ALREADY IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. WHEN THEY PULLED WHEN THEY PULLED WHEN THEY PULLED THE SUBSTITUTE OUT, THE SUBSTITUTE OUT, THE SUBSTITUTE OUT, IT REMAINS RIGHT NOW IT REMAINS RIGHT NOW IT REMAINS RIGHT NOW IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. IN THE CLERK'S BUDGET. THE SAME CONVERSATION THE SAME CONVERSATION THE SAME CONVERSATION WHEN IT BROUGHT TO US LAST YEAR, WHEN IT BROUGHT TO US LAST YEAR, WH
 That's why it's still in the clerk's office by this body and administration adhered to that and put the pause. It's still tonight when this, hopefully this passes because it's the 3% for the, everyone including the executive staff, the clerk's office, council, everyone that is the same thing that you're, everything that you're saying is what this is doing.
 Everything that you're saying is exactly is putting a pause to all of this until that discussion is made. Whether we pass it, not pass it, it's still held in the clerk's office. It was the title going to the administration. Am I correct? No, the title is still the title. It will not position doesn't go until that was it. That's why it's not for you guys.
 the position won't change until it's voted on and and um ordinance and the ordinance has changed i got that can i ask a question in regard to the training i just want to make sure that the training is not delayed any longer with that being in mind that is not going to be in my office therefore my employee doesn't get the training she's been waiting for the training
 And we don't need to delay it any longer. So I would like to make sure that although whether you vote for it or not, that we move forward. The thing about it, we already voted for it in your budget. So it's in the budget. The council has voted for it. That position is in your budget. Yeah, I'm not talking. No, no. I'm just clarifying to my colleagues. It is already voted upon.
 There's no change right now. There's going to be dialogue, whether it's written on this board or not. There's going to start a conversation between the clerk's office and administration. If they decide to talk and want to bring it to us, whether in 30 days, 60 days, I think exactly what you're referring to about the firefighters coming and asking for a delay or an extension. This is the same act.
 that what we're doing, it remains in the clerk's office. We're giving it time to have a dialogue. I don't know how else to clarify that. I understand that. I'm just saying we just want the training because the training comes from an administration. That's what I'm saying. Councilwoman, motion to end the debate. The clerk, I'm sorry, it was recognized first. Sorry. I just want to acknowledge your
 As supervisor, you are ultimately responsible for training of your staff, so I think you can move forward with training. No, the training comes from administration. They have to schedule the training. We have been attempting to schedule the training with administration. That's all I'm saying. I'm responsible for making sure that they get the training from administration because they do the training. Okay.
 Then it's just, it's your responsibility to work on it. All right. All right. I will set up a meeting for them to have training. I'm ready to entertain a motion. I make a motion. We send Bill 6022 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. I do not approve of.
 Establishing the office, I think it's premature, but I will vote aye. Vice President Miscavige. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 60-22 will be sent to the full council with the favorable recommendation.
 Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 61-22 a second reading? 61-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2023. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 6122 was heard in personal and finance today, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is there a petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding this bill before us. Yep.
 Thank you, Councilmember Lee. Dan Parker, City Controller, office on the 12th floor. 61-22 sets the mayor's salary for 2023. The proposed increase for the mayor is 3%, which is in line with the proposed standard increases for non-bargaining employees, as well as council and the clerk. I'm happy to answer any questions. Councilmembers, do you have any questions for the petitioner? If not, we'll now go to the public portion. Is there anyone, Clerk Jones, from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 22?
 61-22. No one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one present wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing of Bill 61-22 is now closed. Council members, do you have any comments? If not, I will entertain a motion. I'd like to move that we send Bill 61-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 All right. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Senator Hammond. Aye. Vice President Dostoevsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Mayor Powell.
 i will now okay well bill 61-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation i will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council so move second it's been moved in second clerk jones call the world i can do acclamation those in favor those opposed motion carries the full council is now back in session
 This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 48-22 a third reading? Yes, 48-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 appropriating, adopting, and improving the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation's 2023 budget and levying the tax and fixing the rate of the taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to fund the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation, South Bend, Indiana for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2023.
 Thank you. And I will turn to ask, Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 4822? Bill 48-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole.
 about two weeks ago and it now comes to the council with a favorable recommendation thank you we also had the public portion during the 26th of september meeting therefore there will be no public hearing today will be council discussion and uh questions and the petitioners available if there's any questions at this time i will turn to my colleagues and see if there are any questions at this time regarding bill 4822 no any comments
 With that being said, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4822. Move for passage. Second. Thank you. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Thank you so much. Clerk Jones, will you give Substitute Bill 4922 a third reading?
 49-22 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana levying taxes and fixing the rate of taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the civil city of South Bend for the fiscal year ending December 31st 2023 and appropriating monies for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the City of South Bend Indiana
 for the fiscal year beginning January 1st, 2023 and ending December 31st, 2023, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing a time when the same shall take effect. Thank you so much. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding second substitute bill 49-22? Comes to the...
 Full council with the favorable recommendation. Thank you. We have also heard substitute bill 4922 on the September 26th meeting and had public comments and hearings. So today I'll turn to my colleagues to see if you have any comments or questions. Move for passage. I'll second. It has been moved and seconded for passage. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll, please? Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 i'd just like to take a minute and thank the chair for her work on uh the budget uh having done last year i know uh it's not an easy job and thank you and i we can continue with the eye yes thank you
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Heyman. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give bill number 50-22 a third reading?
 50-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 832 South Bend Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you so much. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5022? Bill 50-22 comes from the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. I entertain a motion regarding Bill 5022. Move for passage. Second.
 It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill number 50-22 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you give third substitute bill 53-22 a third reading?
 53-22? Yes. 53-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2023. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 53-22. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you read the roll, please?
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Thank you. Substitute Bill 5322 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 5422 a third reading?
 5422, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2023. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5422? Yes, 54-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Constable with a favorable recommendation. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 54-22. Thank you.
 Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Iskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 58-22 a third reading?
 58-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, substitute setting the annual salary for the South Bend City Clerk for calendar year 2023. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 58-22? It comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 58-22. I move for passage.
 SECOND. IT'S BEEN MOVED AND SECONDED. CLERK JONES, WOULD YOU CALL THE ROLL? COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS MORGAN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. AYE. VICE PRESIDENT NASGASKI. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER LEIT. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. AYE. PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. AYE. AYE. THANK YOU. CLERK JONES, WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE BILL 5922 A THIRD READING?
 59-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2023 in conformity with ordinance number 10863-22 and amending the city residency incentive at section 2 of that ordinance. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 59-22? No.
 59-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would entertain a motion regarding Bill 59-22. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you give Substitute Bill 60-22 a third reading?
 6022 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend Indiana for the calendar year 2023. thank you counselor Lee is there a recommendation from the committee of the whole regarding Bill 60-22 yep 60-22 comes from the committee of whole
 to the full council with the favorable recommendation now entertain a motion regarding bill 60-22 i move for passage it's been moving second clerk jones the role please vice president niskowski aye council member davis
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 6022 have been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 61-22 a third reading? 61-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Mayor for calendar year 2023.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 61-22? 61-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 61-22. Move for passage. This has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis. Thank you.
 Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskotsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Bill 61-22 has been adopted. There are no resolutions. We'll move into bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 62-22 a first reading.
 62-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, vacating the following described property alley vacation north-south alley starting from Hill Street to first east-west alley between Corby and Colorama. Thank you. A motion to send Bill 62-22 to Public Works and Property Vacation and for public hearing and third reading on October 24th. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded.
 Clerk Jones, the roll please. I can do this by acclamation. All in favor? Any opposition? Motion carries. Clerk Jones, please give Bill 63-22 a first reading.
 6322 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south in indiana annexing to and bringing within the city limits of south in indiana and amending the zoning ordinance for property located in german township contiguous there with councilman district number one for two one two seven five cleveland road south in indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 63-22, the Area Plan Commission, on November 21st and to zoning and annexation for second reading and public hearing on December 12th and for third reading only in council discussion on January 1st of 2023. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll.
 did you get the dates i'm sorry yeah january the 9th thank you so much my yes um it has been moved in second all in favor aye any nays motion carries thank you i would now move on to unfinished business is there any unfinished business counselor davis what happens with the citizens review board knew we part of the editorial morning and yesterday
 and in terms of that and what's going to happen how soon is it going to happen are there any updates well i can uh turn i can speak briefly because i had been gone for uh on medical for three months so one of the things that i do have to say i know uh my absence played a role as i have some obligations in the ordinance uh for that as president of the council however i can turn to uh
 to Attorney Palmer and to Councilor Warner to give the specific updates for the next steps of where we are and we are. I know moving full ahead now that I am back, but they could speak more in detail to your specific question. It's obviously been delayed from the resolution. It was passed some time ago. Part of the delay has been President McBride's absence
 Part of the delay was that our contact with human resources, who was helping us fill the position of director, left. The person who took over his responsibilities then went on medical leave. And it's simply we haven't had enough people to assist the council in
 and setting up the second interviews and doing the background checks to get it done in accordance with the resolution. That's essentially the entire thing from my perspective. Yeah, but that's for the director. You have a board as well. There's more than just one piece to this. It's several pieces to this.
 And so and I don't mean I'm not putting this on your your your porch. I know. I think it's incumbent upon this council to get that taken care of. I don't understand the delays over. If we can't do this, we certainly can do this part. Right. And that part was making sure the board was put in place and also giving their training because that has to happen too.
 Now that I'm back, it is moving full force. We've had some dialogue for us to get together. And we've had email of last week of now, can we get back together to move full speed ahead? So that was the danger in passing the resolution was so much top heavy leadership because you could be gone for an extended period of time and nothing works, right? I'm back. And so that's why that was it was a danger in that.
 But I she's the vice president. So when you leave, don't your powers go to her? Yeah, we will get it moving forward. That's that's what I can tell you. And we have had that dialogue to do so. I appreciate that. Councilman Davis, if I could clarify, vice president also has responsibilities in selecting the vice.
 director so it's not the vice president so it's not she can't do everything for the president and the vice president well no again the board still needs to be set uh right seated so it's just not that right it's the other parts as well i get that part okay yeah any other unfinished business and thank you for that
 If not, we'll move on to new business. Is there any new business? I do. Councilor Miszkowski. Thank you, President McBride. I just want to let everybody know we're doing another eviction sealing clinic at Howard Park. It's going to be on October the 11th in the farmer room. So what this clinic does is as of July 1, there was a new law that took effect that allows some of the evictions to be sealed from public access.
 So what's happening is some people that may have went through an eviction process but were found in their favor dismissed when they go to fill out an application. They pull it up. They see eviction on there. And they're not scrolling down all the way to see that this has been dismissed and it's barring people to housing. So this clinic is going to be set up between 3.30 and 6.30. You can come in. It's free legal advice.
 working with University of Notre Dame, Indiana Bar Foundation, Indiana Legal Help. So it's a wonderful way for somebody that thinks they have something on their record to get this sealed. Even if you're not sure and you know someone that's not sure, please send them there, and they can look everything up and see what they can do to get that taken off. It's really a wonderful opportunity for someone that's having issues getting housing.
 Thank you. Anyone else? If not, I will move to the privilege of the floor. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals are limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes.
 Individuals should not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on tonight's agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual during the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and to request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting. Is anyone wishing to speak in the visual audience first at the privilege of the floor?
 If not, I'll turn to Clerk Jones to see if there's anyone online. There's no one online that's expressed an interest to speak and privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.