I mean, because I think about, you know, I have to stay healthy so that I can see and spend time with my grandkids. So then, you know, with that being said, I limit everything else as far as going places. You know, I don't because I'm thinking, you know, at the end of the day, I might have to take care of my grandkids. I might have to, you know, sit with them for a little bit or whatever, and I just want to hug them.
 and be real careful you know have to be real careful and so that that kind of takes a toll on you as a grandma i didn't say that yeah i just uh it's it's it's something it is um something to behold oh yeah we'll be the generation 2020 i don't know what they would call us but they need to come up with something you know all right this is 2020
 We're superheroes. Okay, superheroes. Okay. I'm going to go get my cape then. Then you see.
 Thanos slapped his fingers and everything changed Okay, well I'm going to call our Stopping Common Council meeting to order, it is now 7pm Clerk Jones, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations Yes
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone that is not speaking by default in order to maintain the audio quality for the council and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat.
 Please submit your request in the chat and their directions also in the chat to tell you how to do that. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers in at in-person meetings.
 So for citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat and the Council President will call on you during the relevant time for input. Insert your name and your address and you will be given five minutes to speak. And so also if you are wishing to speak on a specific bill, please say the state the number of the bill that you would like to speak on. Thank you so much.
 Due to the executive order by Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the South Bend Common Council meeting will be legally held by way of virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams applications. At this time, our invocation will be given by Pastor Charles King from Greater St. Matthew Church South Bend, and that's Pastor King III.
 Yes, God bless. And it's such a pleasure to be involved in your meeting tonight. So let's pray. God, I ask you right now that you will allow our governing officials to lead with prudence, with clarity. Give them wisdom, God.
 We ask that you would bless them in all of their endeavors. We ask that there'll be great community liaisons and be a blessing to everyone that they come in contact with. And we trust you that they'll be able to just lead us through something that is unprecedented, a pandemic that has impacted so many lives. And we ask that you'll just give them wisdom and insight how to benefit and better this community. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
 Thank you so much, Pastor Charles King III. Thank you for joining us, and thank you for that invocation. At this time, Ms. Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee? Present. Council Member Davis? Present. Vice President McBride? Present. Council Member Warner? Here. Council Member Teschke? Council Member Nizgatsky? Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Present. Thank you.
 Councilmember Hammond. Present. President White. Present. Nine present. Thank you. We'll now receive the report from the subcommittee on minutes. I would like to entertain, have Clerk Jones read the subcommittee minutes, please. We do not have a report at this time on the subcommittee on minutes. We will have it at the next meeting.
 Okay, thank you. We'll now move to special business. There is a special business at this time. The reports from city offices will resume at our November meeting. This meeting and the upcoming meeting, we have a number of bills and ordinance, but we will have reports from city officers starting back with our November meeting. I would now like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole.
 So moved. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Lee. Aye. We're. I'm sorry. Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. I'll come back. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye.
 Council Member Neskotsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Council Member Hammond? Council Member Davis? Council Member Davis, you may be muted. Okay. President White? Aye. Okay. At this time, we have eight ayes. Thank you.
 Okay, the Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you the bills that would be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. We're first going to hear Bill 4520. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4520 a second reading?
 4520, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2021.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Councilwoman Neskoski. The Personnel and Finance Committee held a committee meeting, and we'll bring this bill to you, Bill 45-20, with a favorable recommendation. I'm happy to present Bill 45-20, and I wish to thank members of the Council for all of your efforts and attention that you have given to the 2021 budget process.
 Setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2021, the Council is required to fix the annual compensation for elected officers as per Indiana Code 36-4-7-2.
 The ordinance that is before you proposes zero increase for calendar year 2021 for the nine member of the Common Council. In 2020, the salary was $20,195, and we're proposing again a zero increase of 2021 for $20,195. We're very much aware of the forecast in terms of expected income.
 expenditures as well as decreases in our revenue streams. And we felt that this was the right action on our part. So I ask for your consideration. And if you have any questions, I'd be more than happy to address those questions at this time. Thank you, President White. Council members, do you have any questions of President White?
 Seeing none, at this time we are going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 4520? At this time, I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill 4520. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, then, the public hearing on Bill 4520 is now closed.
 Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding Bill 4520? If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4520. I move to send this bill to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I second. There has been a motion and a second for Bill 4520. Clerk Jones, would you please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Davis?
 I know he was having technical difficulties where he had to go in and out again, so I'm not sure if he got back in. I'll try at the end. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Teshka? Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye.
 He's still going in and out. I'm back. I just got back in. I don't even know what I'm voting on. Okay. This is 4520. Aye. Okay. And President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 We're going to move to the next bill, bill number 4620. Clerk Jones, will you please give bill 4620 a second reading? Okay, before I do that and if I even need to do that, as the petitioner, I am asking that we table this bill so that I can give additional information. It seems like I need to provide that. So can we table this bill until the end?
 This bill and the next, the three bills that are coming from the clerk's ordinance, can we table those bills until October 26th? Clerk Jones, I would just want to have clarity. Are you talking, you're not talking about your salary ordinance because you're not asking for any additional income. So you're asking which two bills would you like to be payable until October 26th meeting? Okay, 4620.
 and 4820. So do we need a motion to I'll make a motion to table Bill 4620 and Bill 4820 until our next meeting in two weeks. The 26th of October. Okay. There's been a motion on the floor. Is there a second?
 There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, would you read the bill? Or would you please take the roll call? Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Teschke? Aye. Council Member Niesgotski? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Smith? Aye. Council Member Smith? Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. We are going to move then to Bill 4720. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 4720 a second reading? Yes. 4720, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the South Bend City Clerk for calendar year 2021. Is there a committee report? No.
 The committee report is that there is no increase in the salary from last year. I would like to make the committee report, the personnel and finance committee. Oh, sorry. This bill, and we send it to you as a favorable recommendation. Thank you, President White. No problem. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner, President White?
 Okay, seeing none, we're going to go to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 4720? There is no one in the public that is expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill 4720. All right, thank you. So at this point, the public hearing on Bill 4720 is now closed. Is there any council members that would like to make a statement regarding Bill 4720?
 Seeing none, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4720. I move that we send Bill 4720 to the full council for passage. Second. Okay, the bill has been motioned and a second. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll for Bill 4720? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Teschke? Aye.
 AYE. COUNCILMEMBER NISGOTZKI. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS-MORGAN. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. AYE. VICE PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. AYE. PRESIDENT WHITE. AYE. NINE AYES. THANK YOU. WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO BILL 4920. CLERK JOES, WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE BILL 4920 A SECOND READING?
 4920, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2021. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, a personnel and finance committee heard the appeal and held a public hearing as well. We send it to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, President White. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner, President White, on Bill 4920? Thank you.
 The petitioner hasn't presented yet. Oh, gosh, I'm sorry. That'd be Mr. Parker. Oh, Mr. Parker, would you please present? Yes, thank you, Chair Nizgatsky. Oh, sorry about that, Mr. Parker. No worries at all. Similar, Dan Parker, City Controller, offices are on the 12th floor of the County City Building. Similar to what you heard for both the council salaries as well as the clerks,
 salary. The mayor is proposing no increase in his salary for 2021, so his salary would remain at $113,103, which is the same as it is in 2020. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Council members, do you have any questions of Mr. Parker at this time?
 Okay. Seeing none, I'm going to then move to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor or against Bill 4920? There is no one in the public expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill number 4920. Okay. Thank you very much. So at this point, then I'm going to close the hearing on Bill 4920.
 Councilmembers, is there any statements you wish to make before regarding Bill 4920? Seeing none, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 4920. I move to send Bill 4920 to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll on Bill 4920? Yes. Councilmember Davis?
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teshka. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 4920 will be sent to full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Bill 5020. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5020 a second reading? Yes. 5020. Public hearing and an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, reaffirming Ordinance Number 10549-17 and fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2021.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chairperson. Personnel and Finance Committee held a committee meeting public hearing on Bill 50-20, and we send this to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, President White. Is the petitioner present, Mr. Parker? Yes, sir.
 Yes, Chair Nizgatsky. Dan Parker, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor of the County City Building. This bill is simply a reaffirmation of the ordinance that was passed originally in 2017 after negotiations with the Firefighters Union. 2021 will be the last year that was the subject of that agreement that was with the union that was struck in 2017. So the bill just reaffirms the original agreement. Thank you.
 and happy to answer any questions on that. Thank you, Mr. Parker. Council members, do you have any questions? Okay, seeing none at this time, I'm gonna go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 5020? There is no one in the public expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill number 5020. Thank you.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 5020 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding Bill 5020? Seeing none, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5020. Move for passage. I will make a recommendation that Bill 50 is sent to the council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5020 a motion?
 Roll call please. Yes, Vice President McBride. I Council Member Warner. I Council Member Tesco. I Council Member Nizgatsky. I Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. I Council Member Lee. I Council Member Davis. I President White I nine eyes. Thank you.
 The next bill is Substitute Bill 5120. Clerk Jones, will you please give Substitute Bill 5120 a second reading? 5120, public hearing on an ordinance fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2021. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes. Personnel and Finance Committee heard substitute bill 51-20, and we sent it to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, President White. Is there a presenter, Mr. Parker? Yes, still me. So 51-20 is the non-bargaining salary ordinance for all non-bargaining employees that do not work in the clerk's office, all the employees that work in the executive department's office.
 The substance of the bill is what we've discussed over the past several months, really, in the budget hearings. The substitute version makes very few changes, just cleans up some of the various items to align with what was presented in the various budget hearings.
 The ordinance itself, the standard raise for non-bargaining employees is 0.3%. There is one position that has a raise above that threshold, and that is the Assistant Director of Business Development, which is a promotion from the Manager of Business Development. There are also four new positions proposed in 2021, a Crime Resource Specialist in the Police Department,
 two business development specialists in the Department of Community Investment, and then a director of human rights position in the Division of Human Rights.
 related to the director of human rights. The only other change that was made from the original version of this bill to the substitute version was to reduce the manager of employment and the manager of housing salary caps to reflect the fact that those positions will no longer have some of the duties that go along with directing that office. Happy to answer any questions that council members have. Thank you, Mr. Parker.
 Council members, do you have any questions for Mr. Parker? Councilman Davis? Yes. Mr. Parker, thank you for the information or the email that you sent. It did help me with what I want to get across. Now, I'm not going to vote against this budget this time around for various different reasons, but I'm going to bring up a very strong point. The documentation that you sent me,
 gave me percentages of where and who is being hired within the city of South Bend. It did not give me exact positions either, so department head, etc. And I'm fine with that for right now. But what I will say to you is that we're going to have to do a lot better with diversifying our workforce for the city.
 everyone in the city of south bend pays taxes every resident everybody any every time somebody buys a bag of chips or whatever that may be they they are paying taxes we can't continue on this line this long line of tradition that money is going to one community versus the other it's not being spread out evenly and i don't think that ever could probably be even
 But when you're looking at a 9 percent rate of African-Americans in the police department, and I think it looks like there's even lower with the fire department. When you have these good jobs that people use and they work for a lifetime and pay their taxes and pay their mortgages and what have you.
 We have to be very intentional about how that money is being spread out because what happens and what we always talk about is violence. That's where it starts. And when people do not have opportunity for jobs and also spending money back into their own communities, that helps increase the tax base in those very various areas. So, again.
 I would like to see more diversity within our workforce. I would like to see more black people being hired in positions instead of leaving out. I would like to see more Latinos.
 all those who are not a part of the popular culture as it relates to the city of South Bend being hired into positions of authority and also as workers. And then only then we can become the city that we need. But we can't do it when it's lopsided like it is right now. We can't do it. Thank you, Councilman Davis. Is there any other council members wishing to speak? Council Member Jake Teshka. Yeah, thank you, Chair. I would.
 Just like to, and this is not a question, but I'd like to get this disclosed. And I think most of you know that my wife does work for Venues, Parks and Arts and as such would fall under this salary ordinance.
 In the past years, as she worked for the city before I ever became a council person, so in the past years, I've disclosed this. And typically what has been decided was that, you know, if she was not getting anything more than the standard raise, that it would not be.
 would not require recusement as it wouldn't be any above and beyond material gain. In this instance actually, in this year's VPA budget, my wife does work for recreation and her position is actually being cut to a part-time position.
 through this budget. So I want to disclose that. And then I think, and I'll defer to attorney Palmer here, but I think the process would then be for the rest of the council to vote as to whether or not I should be allowed to take a final vote on this measure. Attorney Palmer. That's correct. The motion should be whether councilman Teschka should or should not be allowed to participate and vote on the discussion.
 Okay, so we need to do that prior to going to the public portion of this? Correct. Okay. Is there anyone wishing to make a motion? I would like to make a motion that Councilman Teska be able to participate and vote on this bill. Second. There's been a motion and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please take the roll call? Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teska? Aye. Second.
 About a transformer dragon dragon to vote on this. You do get to vote on this. OK, I. Councilman is Gatsby. I Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Nay Councilmember Lee. I Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Davis. I'm stuck right now. OK, please. I'm stuck right now. Please. I'm stuck right now. Please. I'm stuck right now. Please. Please. Please. Please.
 Okay. Vice President McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Okay. Back to Councilmember Davis. Can I ask a question right now? No. Is that permissible, Attorney Palmer? It is not. I know it's not. I was hoping you were going to say yes. I know it's not. Oh, God. Nay. Okay. We have seven ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones.
 Okay, so we're going to go back to the council. Is there anyone else from the council that has any questions for Mr. Parker in reference to Bill 5120? Seeing none at this time, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 5120? There is no one expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill 5120 at this time.
 All right, thank you. So at this point, I'm going to the public hearing on Bill 120 is now closed. Is there any council members that wish to make a statement regarding Bill 5120? Seeing none, I'm going to entertain. Oh, I'm sorry. Attorney Palmer, just trying to catch you there for a moment. So you will have to move to accept the substitute bill. Thank you.
 So I will move to accept the substitute bill 5120. So moved. I second. Okay, it's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Teshka. Aye. Council Member Nitzkowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Davis. Vice President McBride. Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Okay, so that would send substitute bill 5120 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Is that correct, Attorney Palmer? Or do we have to vote? You have to vote on the substitute bill now that was just accepted. Okay, thank you. I move to send substitute bill 5120 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 okay there's been a motion and a second clerk jones could you read the call please yes council member nizgatsky aye council member tomas morgan council member hammond aye council member lee aye council member davis vice president mcbride aye council member warner aye council member tashka all right president white aye nine eyes okay
 Thank you. So substitute Bill 5120 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. We're going to move to substitute Bill 5020. Clerk Jones, will you please give substitute Bill 5220 a second reading? I'm sorry, it's 5220. 5220, public hearing on an ordinance of common council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2021.
 Councilwoman Naskowski, you need to entertain a motion to hear the substitute version of this bill. OK, could I please have some? Some who? Thank you. Second. OK, thank you, President White. There has been a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please take the roll call? Yes. Councilmember Teska. Aye. Councilmember Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, personnel and finance held a committee meeting and public hearing on this substitute bill. We sent it to you with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. Is the petitioner present? Yes, Chair Niesgotski. I am here, Dan Parker, City Controller, Office on the 12th Floor of the County City Building. This is the salary ordinance for Teamster employees. What the essence of this bill is, is just a continuation of the current Teamster contract for one year into 2021 with a 1% increase in the rates of pay for all Teamster employees.
 uh the substitute version of the bill the only change from the original version is the addition of the attachment there were no other changes made i'm happy to answer any questions that council has thank you um is there any council members that have any questions in reference to bill 5220 council member tesca has his hand up okay
 Mr. Tesco? Thank you, Chair. Mr. Parker, I don't believe we've covered this in a different meeting. Could you tell us how this agreement was reached with the Teamsters to essentially extend this contract or how this came about with the Teamsters?
 Yes, thank you, Councilmember Teshka. I can explain some of it, and I might ask either the mayor's office or Human Resources Department to supplement anything that I leave out just because I was only tangentially involved in the process that took place. But I believe what happened was the
 The initial conversations with Teamsters took place several months ago with the representatives from the Teamsters union. We reached a tentative agreement to extend the current contract for a single year with a floor of a 1 percent increase, but the agreement was to say if the non-bargaining employees got an increase above 1 percent, then that would be the rate.
 of increase for Teamsters as well. As we just heard in Bill 5120, the standard rate of increase for non-bargain employers was 0.3%. So the proposal is just the 1% increase for Teamsters in 2021. It was presented to the Teamsters as a whole and then voted on by the Teamsters Union and accepted by them.
 Chris, I know you're on or Casey, if there's anything that I left out, please supplement or air. Yes, thank you. I saw you on there too. Hi, Dan, this is Chris Belair. And this was handled, conversations were handled prior to the Kira Clark, former director of human resources left. So I was not involved in these conversations either, unfortunately.
 Dan, I can I can chime in. This is Aaron Perry, executive director of venues, parks and arts offices at 301 South St.
 Everything Dan covered was exactly accurate. I was in all the meetings. Negotiations were set to begin this year right around the time COVID hit and really there was so much uncertainty in our team and as well as the public works teams were really on the front lines of the response in terms of sanitation and other protocols that were necessary. So we didn't have adequate time to really get together as a team
 and with the uncertainty of the budget process, we kind of came together with all of the Teamsters in person and talked about some of the options. It really seemed like the solution that we've came up with was really the best. And so it's a one year extension of what we've currently got that was voted on as Dan said by the Teamsters and approved. And we'll be back next year with ideally a brand new contract. Thanks, Mr. Perry.
 Okay, thank you, Councilman Cheska. Is there any other Councilwoman Laurie Hammond? You have a question? Yeah, just to follow up from Erin Perry's comment, is that following the normal procedure for negotiations for these particular individuals? I remember there being some concern that that was not the normal process. So if you could speak to that.
 Sure. I'm happy to submit that there was very few things about this year that has been normal. So, yeah.
 We did not do a negotiation, so it did not follow the normal negotiation process. We, along with the mayor's office, submitted the concept of the one year extension to the Teamsters Union via their president. And that was submitted back to their membership. We did get together, talked about it, answered questions. And.
 Attorneys from both sides were present, both the City of South Bend and the Teamsters attorneys, as well as, as Chris Flaher mentioned, our human resources representatives. And so the Teamsters, the process, though, while it was truncated and didn't involve a full negotiation, the process did look a little bit similar insofar as us coming together, then everybody kind of going back their separate ways to take the vote. And the voting process was their normal voting process.
 May I ask one more question? Attorney Palmer, is there allowed two questions in this portion? I can't recall. Yes, there is. Thank you. Yes, Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you. So when negotiations in 2021 begin, will those be decided before the regular budget process begins as we saw this year?
 It happens in conjunction with the budget process, similar to what you saw with the police. I think fire is up next year as well. So it starts early in the year and we go through and kind of understand the goals and priorities of both sides. But it is presented as a part of the budget process. Right. My question was they've already voted on it within their organization before it comes to us.
 They, I mean they, we want to make sure that they approve and vote on the salary or vote on their contract before it gets put into the salary ordinance. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Is there any other council members that wish to speak in reference to Bill 5220?
 Okay, seeing none, I will now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 5220? There is no one in the public portion that's expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill 5220. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 5220 is now closed.
 Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding Bill 5220? Okay, I don't see any. So I believe since this is a substitute bill, we need a motion to move the substitute bill.
 The motion's already been made and passed to accept the substitute, so you just need to make a motion to put it on to the full council with a favorable or unfavorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain the vote. I make a motion to move Bill 5220 to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Thank you. So there has been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 5220 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. So I will now entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded. Could you please take the roll? Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Second.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teschke. Aye. Councilmember Nieskowski. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. You would notice that bills 42, 43, and 44 are in the council portion.
 only as these bills were given a second reading public hearing and action was taken at a recent September 28th 2020 meeting clerk Jones would you please give bill 42 the third reading yes
 4220, third reading on an ordinance of the City of South Bend, Indiana, levying taxes and fixing the rate of taxation for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the necessary expenses of the civil city of South Bend for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2021. As this bill is scheduled to be brought.
 for our third meeting and council discussion. I would like to open up to all council members to see if you have any questions regarding Bill 42-20. Any questions at all? Seeing no one, and there's no public hearing because the public hearing has also been done at the September 28th meeting.
 If there is no questions, would any council members like to make any comments regarding Bill 42-20 at this time? Seeing that there are no comments, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 42-20. Move for passage. I second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Hammond?
 Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teschke? Aye. Councilmember Neskowski? Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 42-30 has passed.
 Clerk Jones, would you please give Substitute Bill 43-20 a third reading?
 Yes, 4320, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating monies for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the fiscal year beginning January 1st, 2021 and ending December 31st, 2021, including all outstanding claims and obligations and fixing a time when the same shall take effect. Thank you.
 At this time, we're in the council portion. This is the portion where we have council members. You can have discussion about the substitute bill. Are there any council members that you would like, if you have questions, you would like to discuss the bill further, please let me know. I don't see any hands up. Would any council members like to make any comments regarding substitute bill 42?
 Move him off. 43 dash, I'm sorry, 42-20. It's really 43-20. Yes, 43-20. Any comments, council members? If not, we'd like to entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 43-20. I move for passage. Is there a second? Then move and second it. All those in favor of the motion? At this time, Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll?
 Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teschke? Aye. Councilmember Nizgatsky? Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. President White? Aye.
 9 ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please give third reading to the Subtitles Bill, 44-20. 44-20, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating, adopting, and approving the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation's 2021 budget and levying the tax and fixing the rate of the taxation for the purpose of raising revenue.
 to fund the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation, South Bend, Indiana for the fiscal year ending December 31st, 2021. Thank you. This also is a bill for third reading only for council discussion. Council members, do you have any questions or any points that you would like to discuss as it pertains to substitute bill 44-20?
 Would any council members like to make comments at this time regarding substitute bill 44-20? Any comments? Seeing none, would the law like to entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 44-20? Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Davis.
 Vice President and bride. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Teschke. Council member Neskoski. Aye. Council member Thomas Morgan. Council member Hammond. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 45-20, a third reading.
 4520, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2021. Councilwoman Sheila Nostoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 45-20? Yes, Bill 45-20 was sent to full council with a favorable recommendation. Okay.
 At this time, I would like to ask councilmembers if you have any statements that you would like to make at this time. If not, I would entertain a motion regarding Bill 45-20. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Councilmember Davis. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teshka. Aye.
 all right council member nizgatsky aye council member tomas morgan council member hammond aye council member lee president white aye nine eyes bill 45-20 has passed at this time clerk jones will you please um
 4620 has been asked to continue as the petitioner will now move to Bill 47-20. Will you please give Bill 47-20 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana setting the annual salary for the South Bend City Clerk for calendar year 2021. Thank you.
 Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 47-20? Yes, Bill 47-20 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Councilmembers, are there any comments that you would like to make at this time? Seeing none, I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 47-20.
 Move or pass? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Warner? Council Member Teschke? Council Member Niesgotsky? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Lee? Council Member Davis? President White?
 Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 48-20 will be continued until October 26th as requested by the petitioner. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 49-20 a third reading? 49-20, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the mayor for calendar year 2021.
 Councilwoman Sheila Noscholski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 49-20? Yes, President Wright. Bill 49-20 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Councilmembers, are there any comments that you would like to make at this time regarding this bill? Seeing no one, at this time I'd like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 49-20. Move for passage.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Teschke? Aye. Council Member Niesgowski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Vice President Johnson? Aye. Vice President Johnson?
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 49-20 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give third reading to Bill 50-20?
 50-20, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, reaffirming ordinance number 10549-17 and fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2021.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Moscoskie, please make a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 50-20. Yes, President White. Bill 50-20 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Council Members, do you have any comments that you would like to make in regards to Bill 50-20? Seeing no one, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 50-20. Move for passage.
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teschke. Councilmember Nieskowski. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 50-20 has passed.
 Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 51-20 a third reading? And it has already been as a sub, so it is Substitute Bill 51-20. 51-20, third reading on an ordinance fixing maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2021.
 Councilor Mashula-Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 51-20? Yes, President White. Substitute Bill 51-20 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Councilmembers, are there any questions or discussions that you have regarding – I'm sorry –
 any comments that you would like to make in regards to substitute bill 51-20. Seeing no hands going up, I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 51-20. I move for passage. I second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Councilmember Hammond. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teska. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill, Substitute Bill 51-20 has passed. Clerk Jones, would you please give Substitute Bill 52-20 a third reading.
 52-20, third reading on an ordinance of Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2021. Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 52-20?
 Yes, President White. Substitute Bill 5220 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Are there any comments that council members would like to make regarding this bill? Seeing none, we'll now entertain a motion to Bill 52-20. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Lee. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Teshka. Aye. Councilmember Nizgatsky. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Substitute Bill 52-20 has passed.
 Clerk Jones, will you please read resolution 20-31. 20-31, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, recognizing the second Monday of each October as Indigenous Peoples Day, also to be known as Native Americans Day. Thank you. I'd like to hear a motion to hear
 I'm sorry to hear the substitute version of Bill 20-31. So moved. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Davis? I'm sorry, I was on mute the entire time. Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teska? Councilmember Neskoski? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Williams? Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, this came before the Community Relations Committee and it was brought forward with no recommendation. Thank you.
 I'll now ask the sponsors or the presenters to present substitute resolution 20- Great. Thank you. Before you, this is a resolution of the Common Council of the South Bend, Indiana, recognizing the second Monday of each October as Indigenous Peoples Day, also known as Native Americans Day.
 Whereas the Common Council notes that most recent United States Census report reported that half a percent of the South Bend population is listed as an American Indian and Alaskan native alone, and 0.3% of the state Indiana's population being also listed in this category. Whereas the Common Council further recognizes that in June of 2013, the Pokanga Band of
 Opened its first Indiana office in South Bend, which provides tribal members in northern Indiana improved access to tribal services such as health care, education, housing assistance, as well as youth tutoring, mentoring programs.
 Employment training and placement, elder care and language and cultural programs and their quest to carry out the tribe's mission to create a foundation for people to make their lives better. And whereas in the interest of promoting Native American culture and commemorate history of Native American in 1990 representatives from 120 indigenous nations held their first Continental Conference conference.
 to, excuse me, and I quote, strengthen the process of continental unity and struggle towards liberation to use the occasion to reveal a more accurate historical record. And whereas the city of South Bay, Indiana recognizes the rich cultural impact of the Native Americans in our community going back to Miami and
 Pottawatomie Native Americans and proudly includes many venues and events named in their honors, such as Pottawatomie Zoo, Pottawatomie Pool, Pottawatomie Conservatories, the Pottawatomie Park concert series. Mark, excuse me, Mark Dye Severo, the keeper of the fire sculpture, excuse me, installed in St. Joseph River east of Sanford.
 East of the Century Center and the naming of the four Winsfield homeless South Bend Cubs, a Class A minor league baseball team. Whereas and since 1937, the second Monday of October of each year has officially recognized by the federal government as Columbus Day. And the Indiana Code 1191 officially designates Columbus Day as a legal holiday for the state of Indiana.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bay, Indiana, as it follows. Section 1.
 The Common Council of the City of South Bend believes that the efforts should be continue to promote the well-being and growth of Native American culture and indigenous community in our city, section two. Therefore, the second Monday of each October shall be known as Indigenous People's Day and may also be called Native American Day in South Bend and shall be an opportunity to celebrate the culture values and contributions with our
 continuing to be made to our community by Native Americans. Section three, this resolution shall be in full force and in effect from the after adoption by the Common Council and approval by the mayor. Thank you, I will now go to Councilwoman Lori Hammond, who's also a sponsor of this resolution. Do you have any comments that you would like to make? Is she still on? Yes, she is, but she's on mute. Councilwoman Lori Hammond.
 I don't know. Some folks just text me and said that they couldn't, they can't hear, they can log in, but they can't hear. Yeah, she's logged in now. I've got it. I'm here. Sorry. Would you like to add any comments as sponsor, as one of the sponsors to the substitute bill 20-31, the resolution? Yes, I'd like to acknowledge the significant contribution by the Native American peoples in the South Bend area.
 and acknowledge the need for recognition of an Indigenous person's day in our community.
 This resolution has a significant amount of support in our community, and I'm hoping that people are able to get on to voice their support. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other sponsors that would like to share comments at this time prior to going to the council members? Any other sponsors?
 No, just happy to answer any questions that will be posed. OK, thank you so much. We appreciate that. Council members, prior to going to the public hearing portion, council members, do you have any questions of the sponsors that you would like to ask at this time? Any council members? Council member, I see one hand. Council member Jake Tuska.
 Yeah, thank you, President White. I'd just like to try to restate the question from committee, because I think there was some – I think maybe I didn't state it very well. And my question would – again, gets back to the intent, and I understand the intent, being that we pass this resolution, which would then lead to an ordinance coming before council.
 to rename Columbus Day Indigenous Peoples Day. And I guess to rephrase my question, again, understanding the flow and the procedural process here, my question would be for the presenters, you know, what the idea, the rationale is behind getting rid of
 Columbus Day and replacing it instead of maybe celebrating both either on the same day or on separate days. Because, again, I read this resolution and I initially did not read it as an either or, but an but but an and. And it was something I could fully support in that form. But but again, knowing the intent now is to fully replace, I guess my question would be, you know, to to get behind the why there.
 OK, well, question and I'll swing back by Councilmember Davis. I want to make sure that all the questions that you can have those and then we go right back to the two sponsors. If that would work best for you. Yeah, I'd like to write them down. That's all. No problem. Councilmembers, are there any other questions before we go to back to the sponsor so they can address those questions for you?
 I don't see anyone else asking a question. Council, I'm sorry. At this time, I'm gonna go back to the sponsors. There's only one question on the floor at this time. Councilwoman Lori Hammond, would you want to address that question? Yeah, I just think that for clarity purposes, the resolution itself is an and,
 When we move forward with an ordinance that would actually change the label of that day in the yearly calendar, then that will be an exclusive name. But under the resolution, this is an addition, not an exclusion of the Columbus Day label. Thank you.
 seeing that there's no other questions we'll now go to the public hearing portion city clerk jones is there anyone waiting to speak in support or in opposition i don't see anyone that is expressing interest in wanting to speak in support of or in opposition of this bill thank you we'll now go back to the
 COUNCIL PORTION OF THIS BILL AT THIS TIME. IF WE HAVE ANY COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE STATEMENTS BEFORE I WOULD ENTERTAIN A MOTION. SEEING NO ONE, NO DOUBT, I'M SORRY, COUNCILWOMAN RACHEL THOMAS-MORGAN. THANK YOU, PRESIDENT WHITE. YOU WERE WELCOME. I DO WISH TO MAKE A COMMENT. AND TO THE SPONSORS, I WANT TO SAY THIS IS A REAL IMPORTANT RESOLUTION.
 And it's worth doing well as we move, as you intend to move forward with an ordinance. So I just ask that in moving forward this resolution, should it pass today, that you work closely with the band of Pottawatomie and that you get their full counsel behind this.
 such an ordinance and as well to work with the mayor and the administration in this ordinance. I think it's the intent of it is understood and important and so for its, I guess, success moving forward, I offer those recommendations. Thank you. Thank you as well.
 Any other council members wishing to make statements? Councilwoman Laurie Hammond and followed by Councilman Jake Tosca. Yeah, I just would like to reiterate, I understand Councilwoman Thomas-Morgan's desire to make sure this clears the mayor's desk, but this is a resolution, not an ordinance, that is going to be changing anything officially.
 so when we get to the ordinance piece we will make sure to have crossed our t's and not at all our eyes thank you thank you yeah my comment was about the ordinance not this resolution thank you thank you we'll now move to councilman jake tesco for comments
 Yeah, so I would just like to thank Council Member Hammond for her answer on my last question and state that, you know,
 we vote on words, not intent. And the words as Council Member Hammond said of this resolution, make it an and not an or, not a replacement. And so being that as it is, I intend to vote for this. And then we will cross the bridge of the ordinance when it gets to us. Thank you. Thank you.
 Seeing no one else wishing to make comments, councilmembers, I'd like to entertain a motion. Excuse me, councilwoman, why I have my hand up? No, I don't see you. I'm sorry. Okay.
 Yeah, I'm sorry. No problem. Councilwoman Shannon McBride. Well, I think Councilman Teske probably answered it because I was making, I wanted point of order to make sure I was understanding because I did understand Councilwoman Hammond say that it was or, I mean, an and instead of or for the recommendation. So I wanted to make sure that I was understanding that before we took the vote. Thank you.
 Okay, I don't see any other hands. Councilmembers, I would like to entertain a motion regarding the substitute resolution 20-31. Move for passage. Is there a second? Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Teska? Aye. Aye. Councilmember Nizgatsky? Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan, Councilmember Hammond, Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please read resolution 20-33? Yes. Thank you.
 2033, a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 4303 Technology Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46628, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for TriPAC, Inc.
 Thank you. This is a confirming resolution and there is not a committee report. I would now like to hear from Community Investment and the presenter if he is also present.
 Yes, thank you, Chair White. This is Dan Buckenmeier, I'm the Community Investment Director, Business Development, 14th floor of the City-County Building. This again is TriPAC, a company that was a new entrant within the past few years to South Bend.
 It has done remarkable growth and expansion. This personal property tax abatement accompanies a real property tax abatement, which we'll hear in the next one. Just for the record, my slide, if you're seeing me share, it doesn't have the right numbers. I'm sorry, it has the numbers from last week's meeting, but in any event, this outlines the details of that personal property abatement. And Mr. Shah, I believe is on audio if you have any additional questions.
 Would he like to make some comments? If not, we can go to questions if council members have any questions.
 This is Mr. Shah. I just want to take the opportunity to thank you and thank the team and thank the city councilman. Thank you. Thank you to the local development council. You know, you guys have given us a lot of support and, you know, you guys have welcomed us. And, you know, we will continue to make a lot of investment into our community, into our people. And, you know, we hope to stay here for a long time.
 Thank you, too. And thank you for your investment in our community as well. Councilman Kenneth Lee. Yes, I would just like to again say that I had the opportunity to go with Mr. Buckenmeyer to visit TriPAC. It's in the first district. It is it is busting at the seams and they're doing a lot of great work and the employees seem to be very happy and they're bringing
 wage jobs to this area. So we're very much excited about their expansion and the things they're trying to do over in the first district. Thank you. I don't see any other council members. I'm sorry, Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan. I just want to echo my gratitude too and thanks to TRIPAC for their commitment and investment in our community. Thank you as well.
 If there's no other comments, then we'll go to the public hearing portion. City Clerk Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor or in opposition? I am checking it to see. I don't see anyone from the public wishing to speak either in favor or in opposition of the resolution.
 Thank you so much. At this time, we'll go back to the council members. If you'd like to make any comments at this time, you may do so. Councilman Kenneth Lee, I still see your hand is up. I never lower it, but I'll say it again. We're excited in the First District to have TRIPAC in our district and the exciting work that they're doing and what the impact is.
 that it's having in the first district. Thank you. Well, now I would now like to entertain a motion regarding the resolution that is before us and that's resolution 20-33. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council member Lee. Aye. Council member Davis. Vice president McBride. Aye. Council member Warner.
 Aye. Councilmember Tashka? Aye. Councilmember Niesgotski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 20-33 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 20-35?
 20-35, a resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 4303 Technology Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46628, as an economic revitalization area for purposes of a seven-year real property tax abatement, or a tripact, Inc.
 Thank you. This is a confirming resolution and there is not a committee report. I will now go to Community Investment, Mr. Dan Buckenmeyer, followed by the petitioner.
 Thank you. Again, this is the previous being a personal property on the equipment. This is the building the equipment will go in. So TriPak has purchased this building on the northwest side of the city. Purchase price was over $2 million. It's going to take about a million in upgrades. And then they will install that few million in equipment to make it a place where a lot of new South Bend residents will begin to work. So we're excited about that.
 Again, welcome. Any questions or if Mr. Shah has anything to add? Thanks, Ben, for that. Yeah, this is a – as we're expanding out and growing our facility, we're adding in a lot of logistical and manufacturing space, and the building on 4303 is a great fit. I think immediately people are going to have any job there. Yeah.
 and you can expand the building out as well. So again, thank you for the opportunity. And thank you again for your investment in our community. At this time, council members, do you have any questions that you would like to ask from Mr. Buckenmeyer or from our presenter at this time?
 Seeing none, then I will move to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in support or in opposition? There is no one in the public expressing interest to speak either in support or in opposition of this resolution. Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed. Councilmembers, would you like to make any comments prior to the time that I would entertain a motion?
 Seeing none, council members, I would like to entertain a motion regarding resolution 20-35. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council member Davis, Vice President McBride. Aye. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Teschke. Aye. Council member Nieskoski. Sorry about that, aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 20-35 has been adopted. Good night, Mr. Buckenmeyer. Okay. Clerk Jones, would you please read Resolution 20-36?
 20-36, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, committing the South Bend Common Council to work in collaboration with the city administration, the police department, residents, and community stakeholders to implement recommendations set forth by the 21CP report. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 President White, this bill was heard by the Health and Public Safety Committee earlier today and comes to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now ask the sponsors or sponsors to present Resolution 20-36. We'll start with Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan. Thank you, President White. I and the other sponsors of this resolution –
 present to you if our sponsors would be willing to take turns reading their assigned paragraphs, I'll hand it off to Councilwoman Sharon McBride. I'd just like to name all the sponsors of this resolution. Councilwoman Sharon McBride, Councilwoman Sheila Nitzkatsky, Councilman Kenneth Lee, and Councilman Jake Teschke. Thank you so much.
 Resolution 20-36, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, committing the South Bend Common Council to work in collaboration with the city administration, the police department, residents, and community stakeholders to implement recommendations set forth by the CP21CP report.
 Whereas in light of exposed rifts in the relationships between local police and the communities they protect and serve, in December 2014, President Barack Obama established a task force on 21st century policing that was charged with identifying best practices and offering recommendations on how policing practices can promote reduction in crime while building public trust.
 and whereas in the aftermath of the death of Eric Logan, the city of South Bend engaged 21 CP solutions from October 2019 through February 2020 to conduct an assessment of the South Bend Police Department, whereby they met with departmental, community, and city stakeholders, reviewed use of force and misconduct investigation files, and evaluated policy materials and performance data, and...
 And whereas historical and more recent incidents within the City of South Bend and across the country highlight an erosion of trust between law enforcement and the public, and whereas events around the country continue to underscore the need to strengthen community policing, accountability, and trust,
 among law enforcement officers and the communities they serve. And whereas the South Bend Common Council adopted Resolution 2118 on June 22, 2020, acknowledging the commitments expressed by Mayor James Mueller and Chief of Police Scott Ruszkowski for immediate and initial steps to address racial justice and police reform and
 Whereas on July 7, 2020, at a public meeting of the Common Council's Personnel and Finance Standing Committee, 21 CP Solutions presented its report, Recommendations for the South Bend Police Department, and accompanying the implementation guide outlined a total of 56 recommendations. And whereas on August 31, 2020, the Mayor's Chief of Staff, Casey Gergely,
 Presenting an action plan for moving forward the 21 CP recommendations and invited the common council to consider its role and participation in the implementation of these efforts. And whereas on October 5th, 2020, the South Bend Common Council passed ordinance 12-20, creating a community police review board, advancing one of the recommendations suggested by 21 CP and...
 Whereas the 21CP report reflects a comprehensive set of recommendations, policy measures, and solutions aimed to improve policing practices, promote crime reduction, and increase the public's trust. And whereas the City of South Bend aspires to be a national leader in 21st century policing and innovative community building practices. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana as follows.
 Section 1, the South Bend Common Council hereby acknowledges the recommendations set forth by 21CP Solutions and appreciates the commitments and progress shown towards implementation. Section 2, the South Bend Common Council commits to collaborating with the City Administration and Police Department residents and community stakeholders to implement recommendations set forth by the 21CP.
 and any additional public safety measures identified throughout the process. Section 3, the Common Council pledges to bridge divisions among police and residents, build trust in our community, and support a policing culture that protects human rights, dignity, and public safety for all.
 We respectfully ask the coming council to adopt this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, too. Council members, do you have any questions regarding the resolution? And that resolution is 20-36. Any questions? If not, I'll move to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in support or opposition to resolution 20-36?
 There is no one in the public expressing interest to speak either in support of or in opposition of Resolution 2036. Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed. I would go to council members to see if you would like to make any statements at this time. Any statements from council members? Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Yes, I would just like to say that and thank you to Council person Rachel Thomas Morgan for leading the charge on this. Any way that we can help to work to bring our city together is important. A house divided can't stand. A city divided can't stand. And so by us all working together to bring about the recommendations together,
 I think it's going to make South Bend a better place, a better city, and hopefully we can be able to bring everybody together so that this city that we love so much can be and reach its full potential. Thank you. Thank you. Any other council members? Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan? Thank you.
 Yes, I just want to say look forward to working together to implement the recommendations. The resolution is truly aspirational as well as a matter of fact as being a matter of fact, but it's aspirational in that South Bend aspires to be a national leader in 21st century policing, and so that's really exciting. Thank you. Anyone else?
 I would like to say that I'm very excited in regards to the number of reforms that we in this city that we have initiated. The 21st CP solution is a very exciting one. I tend to like not only their recommendations, but also the timelines and the implementation and with the passage of the Citizen Review Board.
 comprehensive approach towards police reform in our community. So I thank the sponsors for your efforts as well. Other council members, if not, I would entertain a motion regarding resolution. What is 2036? OK, thank you. 2036. Thank you so much. I move for passage. Is there a second? Second.
 Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Teschke. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Davis. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 20-36 has been adopted.
 Bill's first reading. There are no bills for first reading. I don't want council members to get excited thinking that our next meeting is not going to be that intense or we have a lot of bills that we have read.
 and signed to various committees as well as for action for October 26th meeting. So we will be quite busy. Again, I would like to thank all the council members for all the time, the energy, and the attention that you have given to this 2021 budget process.
 It's been a lot of heavy lifting. Your commitment has been beyond report. And because of each and every one of you, we're moving closer to really passing and adopting a 2021 budget, knowing that there's still as much work that we have to do.
 after the budget has been adopted. We can't wait until June to start the budget hearings. We know that. We need to put systems in to begin to monitor, because as we begin to look at 2021, and that is the year in which it has been projected that we could reach structural balance
 But that's based on a lot of factors that some of which we control, many of which we do not. So, again, I just want to just thank each and every one of you. Get plenty of rest. And as we move forward, is there any unfinished business? Is there any new business? Councilwoman Lori Hammond.
 Thank you, President White. I just would like to bring up a very important ordinance that will be addressed tomorrow at the St. Joseph's County Council meeting. It is the mandatory mask ordinance, which is critically important for the health and well-being of everyone in our community.
 So offer as much support as possible would be my request. Thank you. Thank you as well. Councilman Henry Davis, Jr. Yes, thank you. It's just a question I'm throwing out to my colleagues. I'm getting phone calls, emails about the homeless
 Center project over in Troy's district. There's reasonable concern that the council or understanding, excuse me, that the council has some sort of control over what's going on. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. What I know is what has been reported in the news. I haven't gotten anything in my mailbox email. If I have, I've overlooked it. But I don't know what's going on, if it's coming to the council, when it's coming to the council, if we have had any authority over it.
 So I need help to be able to field questions properly.
 Councilmember Davis, I can say that the site that has been proposed is zoned properly, so it will not come to the council. But I would ask that you reach out to Councilmember Troy Warner, who can give you more information. But in terms of this coming before the council, it will not need to come before the council because it is zoned properly.
 It's properly zoned. Thank you. You're welcome. You're more than welcome. Any other new business? Seeing Claire Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor?
 No, I do not see anyone waiting in the public to speak of the privilege on the floor. OK, well, again, if there's no other business, as I always say to each council member and clerk and your staff, stay healthy, stay safe. And we'll be in contact very soon. Very good meeting. And we thank you so much. I think.
 Hello. I'm sorry. Hi, I'm Eileen Sullivan. Hi, guys. Can you guys see me? No, I can barely see you. Yes, she didn't sign up, but that's okay. Okay, I'm new to how this meeting works. Okay.
 um so hey guys i know that you are that things don't have to be seen by the council i urge you guys to come out and feel this site where this proposed project is going to be it's going to be such a large impact on our neighborhood that
 We got signatures on a petition that needs to be looked at, 500 signatures that needs to be looked at for the concerns and the safety of our neighborhood. And I hope that I can entertain you guys as council members to come out and see this site, to talk to the neighbors, the feel for what's going on in the neighborhood as we have reached out to Mr. Warner and he's told us
 that the situation is done over with and nothing can be done about it. Okay, Ms. Sullivan, we ask that you state your name and your address for the record. But again, I would ask that you contact our city clerk and any council members that you wish to contact regarding this issue as well. But please give us your name and address.
 um 1209 Pyle Avenue South Bend Indiana 46615. thank you so much uh at this time our meeting is adjourned um yeah yeah convenient okay good night Councilwoman Hammond's hand up no I don't have any hands in front of me yeah Councilwoman Hammond's hand was up
 Okay, Councilwoman Hammond, and then we will be adjourned. Yes, I just want to say that Ms. Sullivan did give me petitions signed by the neighbors of that neighborhood, and I brought them to the clerk's office this afternoon so that they will be entered in a public record, and they're going to scan those so those can be sent to the mayor as well. Thank you so much.
 At this time, I don't see any other hands. This meeting is adjourned. Good night, everyone. Good night. Thank you, President White. Thank you, too. Thank you, President White. Thank you, everybody. Good night, everyone. Good night. Stay healthy and safe, okay? You as well. Bye-bye.