Thank you.
 Good evening. I would like to call Monday, October 28, 2024 council meeting to order. Clerk Tirado, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council and yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on an agenda item or during privilege of the floor, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name, address, and topic you are speaking on as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on,
 During the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. My name is Full Name, and I live at Address, and I would like to speak on or against agenda item. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome Pastor Micah Cloutonati to the
 Let's stand for our invocation from Gospel City Church. Thank you so much for coming. Let's pray. Father, we first thank you for the breath in our lungs this evening. And your word says, from the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. And so we come worshiping you and praising you this evening. Lord, second, we thank you for your son, Jesus Christ, who is the lamb of God.
 God who was slain to take away the sins of the world and Lord we thank you that you are the light of the world And in you there is no darkness at all And so father we ask even as we come tonight to discuss topics and issues That your light and your life would be on display here in this place And then thirdly Lord we thank you that we do not have a high priest in Jesus Christ who is unable to sympathize with us in our weaknesses and
 And yet Jesus invites us to come, all who are weary and heavy laden, and cast our cares upon him, for he cares for us. And so, Lord, we bring all of our burdens to you tonight. We bring all of our...
 questions to you tonight. We bring all of the things that are weighing on our shoulders and we cast them onto the infinite shoulders of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And we give you all the glory, honor, power, and praise. We love you, Lord, with our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Help us in this meeting to love our neighbors as we love ourselves. In Jesus' precious name we pray. Amen. Thank you. Brada, will you please call the roll? President McBride. Present.
 Vice President Neskoski. Present. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Present. Council Member Dr. Davis. Present. All nine present. Thank you. At this time, we will have a report from the Subcommittee on Minutes.
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the October 14, 2024, meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. Second. So, the move is seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. At this time, we will have a special business, special resolution recognizing Rise Up Academy,
 This time, the sponsors of the bill, please. A special resolution of the South Bend Common Council recognizing the accomplishment of Rise Up Academy and its students. Karen White, Councilwoman-at-Large, 1912 Melvern Way, South Bend, Indiana. It's my honor to be part of the special resolution for Rise Up Academy.
 Rise Up, whereas Rise Up Academy is an alternative high school in South Bend, Indiana, and whereas Rise Up Academy's curriculum, which is open to under-credited students, engage students through project-based instruction, and whereas students of Rise Up Academy are recommended by administrators from the South Bend Community School high schools.
 As students who could benefit from the small environment and intense support that Rise Up Academy provides, and whereas students upon first arriving at Rise Up Academy are often discouraged, frightened, knowing that their future is bleak if they fail to earn a high school diploma. And Oliver Davis, a large councilman.
 1801 Nash Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46613, and former worker at Rise Up Academy, the social worker. Whereas Rise Up Academy allows students to explore alternative pathways toward a high school diploma and
 And whereas Rise Up students learn within a flexible academic and vocation-oriented curriculum through increased access to desirable roles, community and parental participation, and mentorship. And whereas students recommend to Rise Up
 Academy are given a much better opportunity to graduate than they would have had in their cohort if they remained in the traditional high school program. And for as Rise Up Academy's principal, Mr. Francis Bayagana and the staff give the students hope for the future and Sharon McBride, 415 East Broadway, South Bend, Indiana.
 Whereas Rise Up Academy has created a restorative atmosphere in which students' confidence is restored, their faith in adults around them is restored, and the students are taught to have a restorative mindset in their interactions with their peers and with the staff. And whereas the South Bend Community School Corporation, under the leadership of Superintendent Dr. Todd Cummings, has achieved its highest graduation rate in 20 years.
 And whereas Rise Up Academy's continuing success is shown by its results with the graduation rate doubling in 2021 and 2022, doubling again and reaching 84%.
 in 2022-2023 and exceeding its goal by graduating at least 91 percent in 2023-2024, the highest graduation rate in the history of Rise Up Academy. And whereas these graduation rates rank Rise Up Academy as achieving the highest graduation rate among all alternative schools in the state of Indiana. And...
 Sherry Bolden Simpson, 5th District Councilwoman, 6216 Exeter Court, South Bend, Indiana. Whereas even more success is on the horizon through the award of $3 million from the Next Generation School Improvement Grant to implement an extended learning program to be used over the next three years. Now, therefore.
 Be resolved by South Bend Common Council as follows. Section one. On behalf of the citizens of the city of South Bend, Indiana, we proudly acknowledge and applaud the success of Rise Up Academy and its students on the direction of the superintendent, Dr. Todd Cummings.
 South Bend School Corporation Director of Student Learning, Howard Edwards, Rise Up Academy Principal, Francois Bayangana and District Administrator, Joseph Summers. And we also have Dr. Geneva Adams here also. So I'm gonna add that name in there too. We look forward to the future achievements of students and their contributions to our and other communities.
 Section three, we resolve to support Rise Up Academy in its future work. Section four, this resolution shall be effective immediately upon the passage by the South Bend Common Council and approved by the mayor. Approved this 28th day of October 2024. Thank you at this time. And I would like to thank the sponsors, Dr. Oliver Davis and Dr.
 Fifth District Representative Sherry Bolton-Simpson for bringing us this resolution for the council. My relationship with Principal Bayangana goes back many years, and I am honored to stand before here to be asked to read a part of this resolution. And for the success of what you have done for this community and in the history of your leadership in our school corporation and beyond. So thank you for that.
 And at this time, I will turn to our colleagues to see if there's any comments that you would like to make. I will have to see if there's any comments. Any comments? Pastor Lee? I just want to say congratulations to Rise Up. I did a lot of work with them in my early days of GBI. And what environments children come into is very important. And I know that Principal Angana.
 That's how our last name remember to say, I should say. He he operates in excellence and he operates in love. And those students and the faculty all work together. And it really is important that we we we as a community celebrate a 91 percent graduation rate and three million dollars to expand the work that they're doing. So congratulations and thank you very much for your hard work. Thank you.
 From the 2nd District, Councilwoman Ophelia Rogers, I'd like to say congratulations. Keep the good work up and just keep it up. Congratulations. Thank you. Yes, congratulations. Ninety-one percent graduation. That is a very striking number. So congratulations on achieving that and the three million dollar grant to help these students.
 men and women get their degree, go forward in life. And obviously the success that you have at this school, the nurturing and the loving care that must be represented by you is very noticeable by a 91%. So just congratulations to both of you. Great job for what you're doing in our community. And I thank you.
 I think everyone has already said it, but congratulations to you. The accomplishments of your students are certainly because of the talent that each and every single one of those students have. But most definitely predicated because of the dedication and commitment of the leadership, the staff and faculty of your school. Congratulations and thank you for your commitment and service to our community. Thank you.
 At this time, we'll have Principal Bangana and his staff. And I believe he has some other children. Anyone that you all want to come up and rise up? Dr. Adams. Dr. Adams. Dr. Adams. You guys come up. 91% graduate. Reverend Greg Brown, 4626 Fellow Street. It's an honor to be here. And we thank the Council Board.
 And my Rise Up team, the leadership, and just to be a part of this because a challenging life is tough. When they enter in, Ms. Bowling, all the staff that's here, all the love that's in the room for Rise Up. Because to be an alternative of something is tough. And when they come in the door, my words to them, your setback is a setup for your comeback. Thank you.
 Good evening. I just want to say I'm Dr. Geneva Adams. I'm the chief academic officer for South Bend Community School Corporation and just want to say how greatly proud we are of Rise Up Academy. They have done an extraordinary feat.
 So our students that rise up are in an alternative school. So the traditional way of which they were getting, they're obtaining their high school diploma is not their thing, but they have overcome so many obstacles. So this 91% is amazing in general. But when you talk about an alternative school, it just take it to a whole nother level. It supersedes all expectations. And I am so,
 amazingly proud and so excited. I am just leaping on the inside. I'm not trying to be very loud. I want to scream and holler and all the things, but I am so excited for all the things that each one of the staff members have done, but especially for Mr. Bayangana and his leadership for this building. He has a great relationship with each and every one of his students that cross the threshold of that building. He is absolutely amazing, and the staff is just...
 superb. So I just want to say thank you and congratulations to Rise Up Academy. Good evening. Howard Edwards, Director of School Learning. I've had the pleasure of working with Principal Bayangana and the Rise Up staff for five years. When we started, we were at 19% approximately graduation rate, went up to 23%, then to about 45%.
 Last year, we told them, hey, we're going to hit an all-time record. We're getting close to 80. So we walked up with 84, wrote a grant, got a grant, said we wanted to be at the 86% for the state average, 91%. 19 to 91. People acting shy. Algebra teacher over there, Mr. Daniels. English teacher, Ms. Wells. Yes.
 English teacher, Ms. Christopher. We have our former assistant principal and now district administrator, Joe Summers. Mr. Warner, the Jack of all trades doing everything. Ms. Hartman, she was social studies teacher, now she is over our grant. Somebody trying to hide back there, Mr. Prince Bangana, he monitors the Plato. I hope I haven't forgotten anyone.
 Never good? Okay, that's all who's here. We have one student that would like to speak, and he's online, and Talia says she's going to have him speak on behalf of his experience at Rise Up Academy. Good evening.
 I'm Wayne Meshoma and yeah I'm one of the students that went to Rise Up Academy and I just want to say that not only Rise Up has achieved one of the highest graduation rates but they're also sending some of the kids into college and I I would like to say that I'm like an example of one of the kids that they've helped
 And I just want to say how I'm very thankful for the staff, for the teachers, because they truly showed how much they care for the students. And that helped me with a lot. While I was going through a lot, it seemed like I wasn't going to graduate, but they came through. They helped me. And now I'm proud to say that I'm in college doing what I want to do. And yeah, I just want to thank Rise Up a lot. All right.
 So, Wayne is at Ball State and he did score 1,600 in SAT. So, that was really the first, was really a big success. So, this is so emotional. I want to thank the city council for recognizing us.
 First of all, not only I have my Rise Up team, family, but also I have some followers, my village from Rwanda, American Rwandan, American who are here today. So I want also to recognize them, who came to support, you know, Rise Up and our accomplishments. So very briefly, I just on behalf of Rise Up,
 I would like to extend our deepest gratitude to the South Bend Common Council for honoring us with this special resolution. So this recognition is truly a testament to the hard work and dedication of everyone at Wise Up Academy, and it deserves, it serves as a powerful encouragement for our continued mission.
 Achieving this historic 91% graduation rate would not have been possible without the remarkable teamwork of our staff. Teachers have gone above and beyond encouraging students and working tirelessly during weekends, after school, and virtually to ensure that every student graduates.
 says RISE UP, release the past, embrace the present, and soar into the future. This guides everything we do. Our support staff have also gone the extra mile, conducting home visits and meeting one-on-one with students.
 Special acknowledgment goes to Councilwoman Sherry Bolden-Simpson, our guidance counselor, who has assured that each student knows the steps needed to graduate on time. We have also implemented restorative justice as a cornerstone of our conflict resolution strategy. Additionally,
 Parental support has grown significantly over the past three years. Families see firsthand that our staff is dedicated to helping their children graduate and become prepared, productive citizens. We would also like to give a special thanks to the following people. Dr. Cummings, who is our superintendent. Dr. Geneva Adams and Howard Edwards,
 for their guidance and for being there whenever we needed clarity in our vision. And also I want to give a special thanks to Mr. Joseph Summers, who has been my assistant principal for the past two years, and he has been instrumental in fostering collaboration between staff and students to help us accomplish this goal.
 So every student who comes through our door, when I meet with the student and the parent, you know, they're behind in credits. Some of them are very discouraged. I always tell them four things. I always say, you are going to graduate from our building if you do what we ask you to do. It's going to be good for you. You are going to graduate from high school, go to college, be rich. Number one. Number two.
 Number two, you are going to make your parents, your neighbors, your extended family proud. Number three, you're going to make Rise Up Academy really good. And Mr. Bayengana will be the best principal in South Bend. Number four, you're going to look 10 years from now, look back and see what the Lord has done for you in your life. So thank you so much.
 picture please
 Thank you. Now we got to vote it. Now we got to vote it. Good. Don't leave yet. We got to vote it. Do you have to vote on this? We don't vote on this. We're looking for information. A special resolution. It doesn't need a vote. Oh, okay. It is recognized and it's in our records. And thank you so much for coming. Thank you.
 Thank you all. And this would be your exit if you did not want to stay for the remaining of the meeting. Other than that, you're trapped and stuck with us. All right. Thank you so much, counsel, for that. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance,
 A report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 42-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 829 South 27th Street, Councilman District number three in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes. The Zoning and Aggregation Committee met this afternoon and we bring this bill to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation.
 All right, petitioner, we see that you're here. I think that was a no recommendation. That is correct. No recommendation. The presenter wasn't here. I apologize. Thank you for the correction. Is he here? Sorry, Skip Morrell, principal development planner with offices on the 14th floor of this building. I reached out to the petitioner, tried to email and call and didn't hear anything back. Before I proceed, I want to see if he is online. And if not, maybe we could table this to the following meeting.
 Petitioner, are you there? I will make a motion. Well, I would accept a motion. Accept a motion to table this until our next meeting. Per the petitioner being there. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Dorado, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Good and Rogers? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. President McBride? Aye. All nine. All right. Motion passes, and this will be heard at our next meeting. Clerk Torado, would you please give Bill 44-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing to and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana, and amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 25471, 25481, and 25491 Cleveland Road. Councilman District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes. We had a public hearing, and we also send this to you as a favor. All right. Petitioner is present, and I ask that you state your name and address for the record and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Skip Murrell, Principal Development Planner with offices on the 14th floor of this building. As stated, this is going to be an annexation and rezoning of the properties located at 25491, 25471, and 25481 Cleveland Road. The properties currently zoned are a single family in St. Joseph County, and when it's brought into the city, it would be rezoned as I-Industrial.
 Currently on the site there are a house, a garage, a barn, and a large vacant farm fields. You can see the structure is kind of in the bottom left corner in there as you move up to the farmlands. Kind of surrounding the site is a warehouse zoned I Industrial to the north.
 To the east, there's a small sliver there that's zoned R residential in the county, but as you move further to the east, there are further I industrial zoned properties in the county. And then to the west and the south, residential zoned properties in the county.
 Kind of for some context, the surrounding area was largely farmland until the late 1990s, when the subdivision to the west of the site began to develop housing. Between 2000 and 2010, several new industrial buildings were constructed to the north and to the east of the site, and the final industrial site being developed to the east between 2016 and 2017. It's just off to the right side of the map there. The proposed development...
 would consist of an 8,000 square foot office on the western portion of the lot, as well as a 15,000 square foot warehouse and outdoor storage of equipment on the east part of the lot. Generally speaking, this petition is consistent with the city plan, South Bend Comprehensive Plan objective of retaining existing businesses and recruiting new ones to the city.
 Further, the petition is consistent with South Bend's annexation policy that the extension of city services and utilities beyond city limits should not occur unless it furthers the annexation policies of the city. This rezoning and annexation comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation, and the petitioner is also present. All right. Petitioner, we ask that you state your name and address for the record.
 Good evening, Angela Smith with Dan Charner Associates. Office is located at 1643 Commerce Drive. I have Matt Cain, President of HRP Construction with me as well. This property is looking to be rezoned into the city to allow for a pretty low intensity industrial use.
 It falls into the industrial category over the office, primarily because of the limited amount of outdoor storage they'll have. They don't have an extensive amount of outdoor storage, but because they have some, it bumps it into the industrial classification. But we think this serves as a great transition between the residential neighborhood to the west and the more intense industrial development going on to the east of this, most of which is currently in the county. So we're excited to see this come into the city again.
 The site plan here is continuing to develop as they're working through their space planning and working with the contractor to figure out exactly how this will all go. This is the first step in that process.
 The utilities are available to the site, and this is a great addition to allow for this development. HRP Construction is a company that's been around for a long time and does a lot of municipal water and sewer work. And so this is a great opportunity for them to stay within the city of South Bend, and I'll let Matt share a little bit about that. Please state your name and address for the record. Good evening. As Angela said, my name is Matt Cain, HRP Construction, 5777 Cleveland Road, South Bend, Indiana.
 I've been with HRP Construction for 28 years. The company was founded in 1980, so we're approaching our 40th, 50th year. Been a resident of South Bend our entire corporate history. We'd like to remain that. The first 12 or so years, we're on West Washington Street, not far from downtown. The company outgrew that location and moved to our current location on Cleveland Road, California.
 which then was our new office on New Cleveland Road. And this will be our new office on Old Cleveland Road, ironically. But so we've existed there for approximately 30 years, have outgrown that site. As the company's grown, we now employ about 60 people.
 As Angela alluded, we are a water and wastewater contractor. We work primarily for municipalities and public entities. South Bend is a big customer of HRPs. In fact, we installed the sewer and water that are available to service this property a number of years ago.
 as I say we've outgrown our current location and we're on about three acres and there simply isn't room for us to expand there we do presently rent a 15 acre yard and lot in the city of Mishawaka we rent some warehouse space near the airport we would like to vacate all premises and move to one premise and can condense everything into one location and we'd like to stay um
 in South Bend, and this is very close to where we are. Also, as I mentioned earlier at the committee meeting, as a water and wastewater contractor, this site is pretty cool for us because there's a water tower in view of the back of the property, and we think this would be a great home for us, and South Bend is a great home for us. That's our plan.
 All right. I will just add that I started working with Matt and his team prior to me departing from the city, and they have searched for many properties. So I was really excited when he came to us and had found this one. It's a perfect location for them. It has a lot of room for growth, although they don't plan to have a lot of expansion. It does mean that they won't have to go through this exercise again. Also, the property is kind of
 gone into disrepair over the last several years as the family members that live there have passed on. And so we're looking forward to having their team kind of clean up the site and work to improve that area, which I think the residents were very excited about as well. We did hold two public meetings for the residents and have had some great responses from them. And look forward to this addition to the city with your favorable recommendation. Be happy to answer any questions. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? Yes.
 No questions for me. Council Member Warner. I missed the committee, so I got a question. First, I'd like to start. HRP is a great employer in the community, and thank you for your commitment. I've known quite a few operators that have worked for HRP over the years, and back in my construction time, did some work with HRP. I know the neighbors in this area are going to be very happy to see you.
 On past developments have been very vocal and you said you had 2 public meetings kind of can you give me the 92nd of what the summary of the feedback from the neighbors has been and any complaints or issues and have you fixed those complaints or issues?
 So our first meeting was held at the HRP construction offices and we had four or five people surrounding neighbors came. And to my great surprise, because this doesn't usually happen in the planning world, they were all in favor of the project. So that was a that was a great meeting. I always like those. At the plan commission meeting, we had one adjacent neighbor who came. One came to speak in favor and one came to speak in opposition, just concerned in general about industrial growth because they live out the county.
 But we met with her afterward and had a great conversation. One of the things that the residents liked about this particular project is that there isn't a lot of truck traffic. This isn't a major shipping business.
 Um, the, of the 60 employees, only about 15 to 20 of them actually work in the office. Most of them report directly to the job site and most of their deliveries go directly to the job site as well. So there's not a whole bunch of semi-traffic, which has been the complaint of the neighbors in the past is the truck traffic. So this is why this industrial use in particular has a great, um, is a great transition for them. So generally the response was pretty good.
 pretty good. In fact, a couple of the neighbors who I expected to be really upset came and we're all excited about it. So I was shocked. Yeah, I guess that does make sense. I think the opposition we've heard in the past has been to the distribution centers, right, where there's truck traffic going up and down and kind of trying to snake back to the west there through the neighborhoods. And
 kind of getting lost in neighborhoods. So thank you. And HRP had done a project recently along the section and had already developed a great relationship with the neighbors as part of that project. So that was reflected in their comments as well. Anybody else at this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Okay.
 One wishing to speak in opposition. I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 44-24 is now closed. On my notes, it says this is just a public hearing only. Discussion. Okay. All right.
 So I now entertain a vote. Well, I would like to just share one thing if you can. Again, I would like to just thank our petitioner. I think maybe about eight times I heard him say
 that he wanted to stay in South Bend and call it home. He kept saying he wanted to call it home, South Bend's home. I heard him say that about eight times there. I said, he needs to work for our marketing team, you know, just as how many times he said he wanted to stay in South Bend. And it was really encouraging. I really liked the fact that you took the time to meet with the neighbors, especially the one that came to the opposition. And I really like how you cleared that up and made,
 And I think your longer work with them and with the other project that you did really helped to establish that relationship. So I like to see growth and I like to see people work with neighbors. And you had already looked at other places down there and you continually grow in your business. So thank you so much for the way you conducted everything. So I was very pleased. Is there any other council members that would like to make a comment or statement towards? All right. As a first district person, I am certainly glad that
 The first district is growing, and we're certainly grateful that businesses are staying, staying here, staying put. And so we appreciate that. So I move for passage second. All right. Thank you. She's reminding me. Thank you very much. All right. We got a point of order on that. It's a motion to send to the full council. Yeah, I would like to.
 send this to the council with a favorable recommendation. And I second that again. All right. There's been a motion in the second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Miskovsky. President McBride. Aye.
 Hi, but I do have a question because it's not wait for third reading nine eyes. This is not coming to the council. We've already. No, it's coming to the council at the next meeting. The next meeting for 1113. So that should have been. Yeah. Motion.
 But it does not have to go back to the committee again? No. No, straight counsel on the 11-13-24 meeting. Okay, I'm at peace. Thank you. All right, Bill 44-24 will go to the full counsel on 11-13. All right. Thank you. Clerk, I would like to make a motion to accept substitute Bill 61-24. So moved. Second. All right, there's been a motion and a second. All in agreement? Aye. Any opposition? No.
 Motion passes. All right. Presenter, Clerk Toronto, please give bill, a substitute bill, 6120 for a second reading. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2025. All right. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, there is, Chair. Substitute Bill 6124 was heard in committee and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We see that the petition is present. I ask that you state your name and address for the record and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Yes. Kyle Willis, City Comptroller, offices on the 12th floor. Substitute Bill 6124 fixes the salaries and benefits for sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department. Okay.
 This bill also authorizes a 10% increase for members of the fire, members of the fire, South Bend Fire Department, also includes $2,500 residency bonus for members that live within the city of South Bend city limits, $2,500.
 This bill reflects the elimination of the third class firefighter and increases recruit pay from $48,000 to $56,000. And then also a $1,700 increase for longevity pay for members with more than 25 years of service from $8,300 to $10,000 annually. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any other questions. All right. Is there any other presenter questions?
 Oh, I guess one other thing that I did forget to point out. Upon successful negotiations, the city of South Bend and the local South Bend Firefighters Union did agree to a one-year contract. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? Is there anyone from the fire department? Is there anyone from the fire department that would like to? We have the chief online. And Chief McKinnon is online also. Would you like to hear from him? Mm-hmm.
 Chief first. Chief first. Thank you, council. Can everyone hear me okay? Yes, we can. Thank you so much. On behalf of the South Bend Fire Department, Fire Administration, as well as Local 362, our men and women who serve the city of South Bend, I'd like to thank the mayor as well as the negotiating team for the city administration for their valiant effort to
 to make sure to show our men and women who work 24 hours a day for the City of South Bend and give their all and prove that they are one of the best, if not in the state, in the country, of providing the emergency medical services as well as fire protection to our residents.
 I thank each and every one of them. I thank the mayor for giving me the opportunity as well as the city council members for giving me the responsibility, be in the position that I am to make sure that we are being fair and being equitable to all of our personnel who work.
 tirelessly every day and have been for quite a while. We provide more services than probably predominantly most of the departments in the state. It was great that we could come together and recognize these individuals for the efforts that they give to our community. I thank the 362 members, I thank the city council, I thank the mayor, and I thank my staff who
 It was definitely a team effort in order for us to come to this agreement. Thank you.
 all right thank you and members from the local union russ boozy local 362 vice president 4025 lincoln west um i'd just like to echo what the chief said i would like to thank uh members of the council that sat on the negotiating side i would also like to thank the mayor especially i've been doing this since my fifth contract negotiations we really appreciated the mayor being there uh we do all
 The local do believe that he helped move the ball down the field. And moving forward, I'd really like to thank the chief and his staff. Again, I've been doing this for this is my fifth contract. And it was truly a team effort. And just know that the one year deal that we did get may help us solve some of our staffing woes that have taken place.
 And we look forward to meeting again next June. I would appreciate if a member Lee and member Goodwin Rogers would be there again. You were very beneficial and we appreciate it. And again, thank you. Thank you. All right, and if the council members will come back for final comments, I will now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Taurato, is anyone
 Online or in the building wishing to speak in favor? I think we got the chief and the representatives from the union to already speak in favor of it. But is there anyone else? There is no one in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on bill on substitute bill 6124 is now closed. Council members, do you want to give any statements?
 Yes, since you're looking at me, then I would like to say thank you to the fire department. It was well serving on the committee to help get your contract negotiated with the city. I think I do look forward to coming back again. So I would just like to say congratulations and I'm glad that we were able to help.
 Thank you, Councilman Lee. I just want to thank the fire department for your service to our city. It's just you meet people at their most vulnerable times. You're scared. You don't know what's going to happen. And I'm blessed to have the experience of comfort during very scary times. And so I thank you for that. It's the expertise.
 that you deliver and then the compassion with it. That's a powerful combination, expertise and still have compassion. Thank you. And I'm so glad that this worked out. And I truly wanted to work out again in the next negotiations. Right. Yes, sir.
 um miss white first oh just wanted to say thank you not only to our representatives from the common council but also the from the administration and the fire department um we're very pleased that this contract was ratified and we look forward to the upcoming
 um engagement uh you know as we look forward to the new upcoming contract and i want to make sure i heard you say that it's going to be in june so i would say to council men lee and councilwoman rogers get plenty of rest over the christmas holiday thank you so much and congratulations dr davis thank you so much as a person who was personally benefited
 from our fire department back in April when I was in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. As I sat there, I said, you know something? I'll never vote against the fire budget when you see. The care that they gave to me,
 When they came to my school to pick me up, take me to the hospital when I had a concussion, I would be very I'm always grateful for that because I was sitting there frightened. And they came in and said, we got you. We got you. And they talked to me all the way through on Lincoln Way. I can still see it. And, you know, something when you actually see what you do in person and you actually experience it, it has a different impact on your life.
 And it's my second time that I've been in that situation in my life. And it's humbling. It's frightening. And you're grateful to know that you're in good hands.
 And your hands save a lot of people. And you can sit there and see it and we can vote on it and all that. But when it comes to you personally and you experiencing what our team is actually doing, it's something else. It has a different meaning. And so when I came out to the firefighters retirement in May.
 I walked in the room. I've been to different things like that before, but after you have just come out of the fire ambulance, it has another meaning, and I will always be grateful for that. So I'm grateful for our team, and I'm grateful for those who helped me, who did an excellent job. So thank you, Chief, and thank you all who are continuing to protect our families here in South Bend. Councilwoman Musmorga? I thought you gave me. Okay. Anyone else?
 I would like to say thank you as always for their service, the level of professionalism that they have, not just in the community, but with everything that you do with the new programs that was implemented. You know, last year, the things you're all doing with going to the homes and the prescriptions and the water rescues and the FEMA support. I mean, everything that you all do is top notch and.
 And not just on the fire side, but that is a big portion. You know, last year when the tragedy happened, you guys stood up and every day the risk that you guys face and women is just second to none. So thank you.
 And I would just, again, want to thank Councilwoman Gooden-Rogers, and I'd like to thank Bob. And from the council perspective, and then those from the administration, and those from the union, it was a very interesting negotiation and discussion.
 We all came in because we wanted to make sure that we let our firefighters know that we appreciate the hard work and all of the things that you go through. So 10% raise is great. Right now we're 42. This takes us up to 16 in the state of Indiana. And hopefully we can continue to grow and be fully staffed. So thank you all for everything that you do for our community. And we appreciate you. And at this point, I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 6124.
 Make a motion to send substitute bill 6124 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second. All right. We've got three seconds. All right. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 6124, be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Dorado, could you please give Bill 62-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the 1st East West Alley south of Napier Street between Chestnut Street and terminating in parcels 018-3076-3055 and 018-3076-3055.
 dash 3053 and the first north south alley east of chestnut street between parcels 018 dash 3076 dash 305301 and 018 dash 3076 dash 3052 in terminating the north fork southern railroad right-of-way all right is there a committee report
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in Public Works and Property Vacation today, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Council Member Lee, we need to accept the substitute. Oh, I'm so sorry. It was a substitute? Okay. All right. I'd like to accept the substitute bill. Thank you.
 So moved. Second. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? All right. Now we can proceed. Am I good to go? Can you hear me? Yes, we can. I'm Ariel Geary. My address is 206 Lafayette Avenue Northeast in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Let me share my screen.
 We are wanting to vacate the highlighted alley that's in red. We have a machining shop at 325 South Walnut Street that currently has three employees. And we would like to fence in the entire property and the alley needs to be vacated in order to do that. There will be a public turnaround. And.
 And recommended by the city, we're going to tear out the approach, replace with a curb and establish a tree lawn that is up to the city standards and specifications. Yeah, that's pretty much it.
 Thank you. All right. In committee, we saw the actual map that shows the dots where they're, that's not the map, but we did see it in the committee. Just for the public record. All right. Are you guys the petitioners also? No. Okay. Council members, do you have any questions? All right. Now we'll go to the public hearing portion.
 For those that are in favor of bill of substitute bill 62 24 clerk Toronto, are there any ones that's in favor of substitute bill 62 dash 24? Gentlemen, are you speaking in favor? We're unsure because we're not sure the whole plan. OK, so we're just trying to get clarification. OK, so I don't see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in favor. OK.
 Well, with the petitioner online, if there's a question that you need to ask, we can ask the petitioner, correct?
 Yeah, you can ask your question and the petitioner is online and she can be able to answer. Hi, Carl Nichols representing Gethsemane Church of God at 308 Walnut Street. We own the parcels ending in 3047, 3049 and 3051. And we will be breaking ground a new sanctuary in the spring and looking for the totality of the plan to see how this would impact the plan that we have.
 Are those the, my map doesn't have- Those are the three lots to the- On the right side. On the right side to the north of your yellow line. We, I don't think anything would interfere with your plans. The turnaround would be whatever the city specifies that it needs to be.
 Our plan is just to fence in the yellow. We wouldn't change anything other than what is required to be changed to have the turnaround put in. And I think we're all good. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Or is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone from the public or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing?
 On substitute bill 62-24 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make a statement?
 And I want to make sure that when you leave out of here, everything is correct. So you don't have to say, Gooden Rogers, what happened? We didn't understand. And I just I'm not trying to put you on no spot or none. But I do want you to understand what happened before you leave. OK, thank you very much. OK. All right. I will now entertain a motion. Motion to bring this.
 Bill to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk, Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Vice President of Gotsky. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right.
 Substitute Bill 62-24 will now be sent to the full council with a federal recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor? Any opposition? Motion carries.
 The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding the bills that were just heard through the committee of the whole. Clerk Dorado, will you please give substitute bill 6124 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing the annual pay and monetary fringe benefits of sworn members of the South Bend Fire Department for calendar year 2025. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 6124? Yes, Substitute Bill 6124 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion.
 For passage. Second. I'm moving second. Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 64, 61-24 has been adopted.
 Clerk's Router, will you please give Bill 6224 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana to vacate the first east-west alley of South Napier Street between Chestnut Street and Terminating and Purcells, 018-0376-3055 and 018-3076-3075.
 3053-3053 and the first north-south alley east of Chestnut Street between parcels 018-3076-305301 and 018-3076-3052 and terminating in the North Fork Southern Railroad right-of-way.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6224? Yes. Bill 6224 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 6224. Motion for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 6224 has been adopted. Thank you. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Resolution 2435 a reading? You said 2435.
 I mean, I'm sorry, 2434. A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting a written fiscal plan and establishing a policy for the provision of services to the Cleveland Poppy annexation area in Warren Township. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, the zoning and annexation committee met this afternoon.
 And we heard this bill and we bring it to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, petitioner.
 This is Skip Morrell, Principal Development Planner with offices on the 14th floor of this building. So, as I said before, the last bill, 4424, was for the annexation rezoning. This is looking at the resolution for the fiscal plan, just kind of confirming that the city can provide all necessary services, utilities, when this property is annexed into the city. This annexation is...
 It's four parcels of the northeast corner, Poppy Road and Cleveland Road. It's approximately 22 acres and meets state law for a contiguity. So how much of it is touching the city currently?
 No capital improvements are planned for the city as part of this annexation. Water and sewer are both available from Cleveland Road, and a portion of Cleveland Road's right-of-way would be added to the city. It'll be added to Council District 1, served by Police Beat 22, Fire Station 11, Emergency Medic 11, and Neighborhood Services and Enforcement Area 5. And we look forward to a favorable recommendation on this fiscal plan.
 Thank you. My colleagues, are there any questions of the petitioner? Seeing none, I will turn to the public portion. Clerk Toronto, do you see anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2434? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Thank you. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. Are there any comments regarding Resolution 2434? Seeing none, I would like to entertain a motion. Move for passage. Second. Clerk Tirado has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye.
 Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2434 has been adopted. Thank you. Clerk Tarada, will you please read Resolution 2435?
 A resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 321 West Wayne Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of a 10-year real property tax abatement for historic Hearthstone LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yeah, the bill was heard this afternoon. Community investment comes forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Thank you. Petitioner, welcome. Thank you. My name is Mark Beamer, Director of Business Development with offices on the 14th floor of this building. For consideration today is Bill 24-35, which is a confirming resolution for a 10-year abatement for historic Hearthstone LLC.
 The declaratory resolution was just adopted in a prior meeting of the Common Council, so we'll provide a high-level summary today. You'll have to work with me. I'm recovering from a cold, so a little congested. So the petitioner today is Historic Hearthstone, LLC, and the site to receive the tax benefit of the mixed-use real property tax abatement is located at 321 Wayne Street, which is otherwise known as the Spenner Garage. This slide shows the exterior and overhead views of the property.
 And this shows the interior to be redeveloped. As you can see, it's pretty much just a blank canvas right now, so to speak. So the building is 17,000 square feet and was formerly a Ford dealership and service center. The intent is to redevelop it into a mixed-use space with a family-oriented restaurant as the anchor tenant. And there will be offices and a workspace for Indiana Landmarks and South Bend Tradeworks. The total corresponding investment is expected to be $2.5 million to redevelop the space.
 regarding the tax impact current annual taxes are around four thousand six hundred dollars taxes are projected to reach uh fifty five thousand with the value of the plan investments during the ten year abatement period roughly five hundred and fifty three thousand in estimated taxes are expected to be generated of this 471 000 will be abated with 82 000 paid
 However, I should highlight that after the abatement period ends and then at the 20-year point, it is projected that the City will receive $636,000 compared to $92,000 if the project did not occur. So this slide provides a more detailed breakdown of the annual impact of the abatement during the 10-year period. This concludes the summary, and Regina Ambertan is here today to answer any questions that the Council may have. Thank you. I would like to turn to the Council to see if there's any questions.
 Regina, would you like to speak or you're just waiting on comment? Would you like to speak? OK, I know we had an opportunity to before. So, counsel, are there any questions? Counsel, Counselor Tomas Morgan. Thank you. Could you just remind me what the timeline timeline is? Oh.
 renovation and completion? Sure. Absolutely. I'm Regina Emberton and the address is 615 West Colfax Avenue in South Bend. The timeline for construction, we, um, I acquired the building earlier this year, um, upon successful approval of this abatement and finalizing the work with the anchor tenant, um, we plan to begin construction immediately. Um, they would like to be open, um, sometime during the spring or summer for the, um,
 opening of the poor winds field and then the, and the South Bend Cubs season. But it's a little bit aggressive. Our, you know, our goal overall is by the end of 2025 to be fully operating. Great. Thanks for reminding me of that. And thank you very much for your investment. And I know this is a challenging project, but it's, it's really exciting adaptive reuse for this building. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Seeing none, I will turn to the public portion. Clerk Tirado, you see anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2435? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. The public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel if there's any comments.
 If not, I'll entertain a motion. Second. Second. We move to second it. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. Resolution 2435 has been adopted. Dr. Serrano, will you please give Resolution 2436 a reading? A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, correcting scum in its air in Resolution No. 5096-24, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 123 North Corridor.
 North Drive, Martin Luther King Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for AFP111 Corporation. Thank you. Is there a committee report? This afternoon, community investment comes forward with favorable recommendation. Thank you, petitioner. Okay.
 My name is Mark Demender for manager of business development with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Bill 24-36 is a fairly straightforward resolution, which corrects a scrivener's error from declaring resolution number 1596-24, which was adopted in the October 14th session.
 So I'm sure that most present are aware, but as a quick reminder, the declaratory resolution designates parcels as an economic revitalization area for the purposes of the tax abatement and establishes the length of the designation. Improvements which occur during the designation period are then eligible to receive the benefits of the abatement.
 so while the length of the abatement may vary the designation period is for three years so to pivot back to bill 24-36 it corrects the original error which listed the termination of the of the designation in 2033. under this new bill that correctly sets the end date to 2027 in short this bill corrects an earlier oversight and city staff wanted to address it prior to the confirming of the resolution to be heard following this one
 So this concludes my summary. Were there questions on Bill 24-36? I don't know. Is there any questions? Seeing none, I would go to the public portion. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 24-36? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Same said. Anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. Second. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please.
 Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2436 has been adopted. Dr. Rotter, will you please give Resolution 2437 a reading?
 A resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the city of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 123 North Drive.
 Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for AFP 111 Corp. Thank you. Is there a committee report? That was heard in community investments this afternoon and comes forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, petitioner.
 So, uh, Mark, being a different manager of business development with offices located on the 14th floor of this building billed 24 dash 37 is a confirming resolution for a hotel where real property tax abatement. And it's respective declaring the resolution was just passed in the prior meeting of this body. So.
 Since this confirming resolution covers materials that were presented recently, I'll provide a summary again as a refresher. The petitioner AFP 111 Corporation is planning to invest roughly $9.2 million into the development of 123 North Dr. Martin Luther King Drive Boulevard, commonly known as the Doubletree Hotel.
 So this investment of $9.2 million represents another phase of an ongoing project to renovate and improve the hotel. To date, the petitioner has invested $4.4 million into the project, retained 110 full-time employees as part of the project, and anticipates hiring an additional five employees with an annual payroll of $166,000.
 So this slide depicts the tax impact of the abatement. Currently, property taxes are around $313,000 annually and are projected to increase to $448,000 due to this investment. So during the nine-year abatement, roughly $4 million in new tax dollars are expected to be assessed. Of that $4 million, $122,000 will be abated under this resolution, and $3.9 million will be assessed.
 After the abatement period ends and looking ahead at the 20-year mark, property taxes of $8.8 million are projected to be assessed during that lifespan. So, again, this slide depicts the precise breakdown of the estimated annual tax impact of the abatement over the next 10 years. As you can see from the chart, the tax abatement ends on the 9th year, and the full tax amount will be assessed going into year 10.
 This brings me to the end of the presentation, and Michael Hinks, the Senior Vice President of Hotel Operations, is here to answer any project-specific questions. So I'll open here. Thank you. Mr. Hinks, would you like to speak? No? Okay. Thank you. I will turn to my colleagues. Are there any questions of the petitioner? Seeing none, I will turn to the public portion. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2437? No.
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. At this time, the public hearing is now closed. I'll turn back. I'm sorry. I would just like to, Madam Chair, I would just like to thank Ms. Stinks again.
 and for his consistency and his commitment through all the different ups and downs. They have been the heart of downtown, and I appreciate that and continue to look forward to your growth over the years.
 Thank you. Anyone else? Counselor Lee? Thank you for your investment in our downtown and our double tree. We want it to be the best. And so nine point two million dollars invested in it will certainly get it there. So we're excited about that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for enhancing our city. It matters how it appears. And thank you. When people enter this city, we want them to see beautiful things.
 for adoption i second clerk toronto the role please council member lee council member bolden simpson aye council member warner vice president niskowski aye council member dr davis aye council member thomas morgan aye council member good rogers aye
 Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 24-37 has been adopted. Now, bills on first reading. Clerk Tirada, will you please give bill 63-24 a first reading? First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing to and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana, a
 certain land located in Central Township, continuous therewith, Councilman District Number 5 for land south of Lafayette Falls Phase 1 annexation area and west of South US 31 Highway, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 6324 to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading for November 13th meeting.
 Move. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Accepted. At this time, I will turn to council. Is there any unfinished business from council? Yes, Madam President. Dr. Davis? Just wanted to say that I would like to get an update regarding the train in my district. Well, all of our whole city now. It's the whole city, but still over there where I live of Walnut to look at that.
 because it comes through the night and we can hear whistling way after the city ordinance deadline. And I'd like to see if we can get an update on that. Also like to get an update regarding the police discrimination legal case that's going on with the federal government to see what's that. Because when people ask, I have no clue except what was in the local paper.
 So I'd like to just get update again, which I requested in our last meeting. I'd like to see if we can get that. I appreciate it. Thank you. I'll have a call into the railroad for something in my district as well and have not received a return phone call. Okay. So if I get a response or if I hear anything from our parliamentarian, I don't know if you heard anything. I have not. Thank you. Is there any way we could just send them a letter, something, whoever that is? Because I don't know who...
 who is in charge of that part of it? I mean, what railroad is that? I can't remember without looking in my emails because they are designated for each location. So it's in my email. If you can let me know what railroad it is, I don't mind finding the...
 a city ordinance or something and sending that along with it with you know with cc or something i just i mean i don't mind doing it but i just don't know who they are because they're not norfolk southern i'm i'm assured and they're not the other ones that we have this is because they don't show up sometimes you can go weeks and all of a sudden boom boom boom boom and it's just frustrating and if they jingle bells cool but not train okay thank you any other unfinished business
 with that um i'll start with new business first thing i need to do is entertain a motion to move the november 11th meeting council committee meeting starting at 5 45 and then on november to november the 13th due to veterans day so move and also moving 7 p.m meeting from the 11th until november 13th so move to all of that
 so it's been voted in all at one time with the world separate i can vote on it together but i had to get both the times and the dates okay so again that was a motion to move november 11th meeting the committee meetings beginning at 5 45 till november 13th and then the full council from november 11th moving till november 13th beginning at 7 pm so there's a motion in a second all in
 The opposition. The motion's carried. Thank you. Also, council, you do have the 2025 council meeting dates before you. So you will know as we will be voting on those first of next year. But thank you to the clerk's office for reminding us about the holiday and also getting the council meeting dates out to us in advance. Cool. Thank you.
 at this only other update attended a funeral but never uh what's his name i had it at it long neck long hacker thank you on behalf of the city i'm on saturday and um last week this mayor presented a key to the city for him he was a long time teacher at adams and so i appreciate it going there and representing the city thank you
 There's no other new business. I will turn to the privilege of the floor. Oh, I had. I'm sorry. I just want to thank the mayor and a community near north in, in and in for the dedication of the playground near near our church. Forget the street, but it's near number six. And that will be an enhancement to the community. I know that's your district councilman. Thank you.
 The community and mayor. Thank you, Vice President Nieskowski. Thank you, President McBride. Yeah, I just wanted to publicly thank the police department, the fire department, and I believe the Cajun Navy, but I'm not sure if they participated or not. But it was in the in the community for all the items they collected for the Hurricane Helena.
 Um, there's people still in North Carolina, Tennessee, Florida. Um, and as we start getting into the fall season, the many people in North Carolina are not going to have running water till February heat. Um, so it was a big thing for them to reach out in the community. We have a very generous community. Um, and being, I have family from that region, it really means a lot because they were, they were devastated and there's still, I believe over 200 people missing.
 So these items that were collected were very well needed and very much appreciated. So I just wanted to make that statement. Thank you. That's well said. And you know what? I'm going to cut you all off in a few minutes. No, Counselor Lee. Yes.
 I don't know, fellas. Negative energy towards me all the time. No, I just wanted to thank Intend Indiana. We had a groundbreaking 92 new homes are going to be built in the first and second district starting in the Lincoln Park area, area of our city that's been greatly forgotten about. And so I just want to take a moment and thank Intend Indiana and our community investments for what's getting ready to happen in that area. Nice.
 Anyone else? Council? If not, I'll turn to the privilege of the floor. At this time, if there's anyone wishing to speak in front of council, you have three minutes and you cannot discuss any items that were on the agenda for tonight's meeting. Thank you. Welcome. State your name and address for the record. Sarah Foster, Sarah Foster, 1138 College Street.
 Tonight, I am once again publicly asking for Vice President Nizgatsky to please do the right thing and step down from your position following your May 13th assault and attempted battery on Logan Foster. Thank you. Yes, Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. On May 13th, 2024, Common Council Vice President Sheila Nizgatsky assaulted...
 threatened, intimidated, and humiliated a disabled member of the public in this very room. On May 13th, Nagoski raised her hand to attack a member of the public in an attempt to silence and stop an ongoing investigation into her family's wrongdoings.
 Council President Sharon McBride physically removed and restricted Sheila Nagoski before she ultimately physically battered a handicapped person in this very room. Council members Dr. Oliver Davis and Sherry Bolden Simpson have already spoken out as witnesses to Nagoski's misconduct. Yet, President McBride...
 Our council president, who had to physically detain Nagatsuki, has been publicly silent on this matter. The public would like to know why our president, Sharon McBride, refuses to speak publicly on this matter. The public watched the video of Nagatsuki's assault. We watched our president physically detain the vice president. Now we ask, why did McBride intervene? And why does President McBride refuse to condemn Nagatsuki's actions?
 Does her silence have anything to do with the fact that she accepted $2,000 from the vice president's husband during her bid for re-election? President McBride, do you represent the people of South Bend, or do you represent your wealthy donors? The public is demanding that you make a statement. We deserve better leadership than what you've displayed. Sheila Nagoski needs to resign from her position today. Enough is enough. Thank you.
 Thank you. Sir, please come up and state your name and address for the record. My name is Charles Boros. I'm living on 1409 West Western Avenue, and I own a property next to it, 1411. And I purchased this 1411 property about 13 years ago, and suddenly suddenly,
 Somebody from the 14th floor came there and said, oh, you have an alley here, so vacate that alley. And I went to ask what happened. I mean, and I never get any answer, you know. So I tried to resolve this situation clearly, but they said it's a property on 1413, which is never used for 30 years.
 and was an empty building. So they said somebody from there, I mean, he wants to have the, I don't know what part of the alley is. So I tried to talk to them that constantly we have in contact with the police and things like that. And suddenly on that old building, which everybody can see is falling apart,
 Suddenly, we have a lot of cameras there, and two of them are pointed at my property. I don't know for what reason. So I went to talk to them.
 councilman uh sheila nadesky and i never got any answer i left the phone number and everything to to i mean i never had a situation like this so i really appreciate if you somebody cleared it out
 I appreciate it. What's your name again, sir? Charles Boros. Boros, yes. I did try to contact you. I don't know if I was able to leave a message, but our clerk did give me your message, and I didn't know what it was regarding you.
 but now that I know, I can definitely... I was two times at your office and nobody said, oh, you're not here because you're not working here. So I don't know how come. Yeah, generally we're not here. If you can stay a few minutes after the meeting, I can get you connected tonight, okay? And I don't know how to get in this line. We'll get you taken care of. In the line, all right. We'll get you taken care of. We're almost done, so we'll have her speak with you, okay? Okay. Thank you so much. It's a good job. Which person can see?
 I'll wait until you all get the copy. You can start speaking, Mr. Goodchild. We're good. We can follow along. Okay. My name is Rod Goodchild. I represent River Park.
 My father came, as you know, from the Indian Reservation and part of the Panawanami tribe. He walked eight miles to his school and eight miles back after third grade. His three brothers had third grade educations. They all went to the school on the reservation. He did obviously go like from here to Elkhart and then back again through the winters and everything else. But he was the one that had the...
 the support and the funds to do what we have now. There's 14 trees. I was just informed when I was at the concert, when we had the symphony play, that the trees were just not in tune with what we're going to be doing at the park. We need to modernize the park and the trees got to go.
 the tree that was supposed to go. And as you can see, I've shared with you the dead, this is an old dead pine tree, and it was going to be put in a brand new carving. And that, they said, no, it couldn't go. And we said, we'd give you an answer by the 17th. That's been a month and a half ago. I've never heard back from Amy Roche. But anyways, her and the chair from the
 the pavilion there at Chris Pavilion said that it's just ugly and we don't we just don't need to continue to go down that path with the trees this is a new adventure and a new look that we're having for Panawami Park to give you some idea I've been a federal funds review officer I've
 had the largest HSA, 99 counties. There's three things that you look at, need, cost effectiveness, community support. On the need, you all had all the information from the people like the mayor, Pete, people like Joe Conley, Joe Donnelly, the different resolutions. Many of you have been on the resolution supporting this program.
 It's 14. When you look at the number of trees, they run $1,000 a foot. And there's as far as 20 of them that they have here for doing the math times the 14 comes out to $280,000 investment.
 I've maintained them all for 12 years. And all I can say is that they've meant so much to the children, especially after look at the Rite of Spring. They bring in busloads from all over Michigan. We have had to put stones in there so they can interact with the children. So they knew what was that beautiful carving represented. And that was all paid for like a thousand dollars of stone for all 14. There's nothing else like it in the United States.
 We have so much pride here. That was part of the heritage and that's what my father and his trust fund looked so forward to. And now they think that it's being talked about as disappearing because it doesn't add up to the new image of the park. I don't know what we could do that would make any more sense than to protect those beautiful carvings anywhere from 10 to 40 foot tall.
 It's been totally supported by my father's trust fund, and I ask you and the council to look over all the resolutions that have been made. And as a federal fund review officer, you have to look at the need, the cost effectiveness, and is there community support there?
 Every single year people came from all over the United States to see it. Everybody that comes to the park loves those trees. It means so much. Well, Mr. Goodchild. Thank you. Mr. Goodchild? Yes. I do have, Counselor Lee can get with you and follow up as well because I know he's been in communication with the parks and administration so he can follow up with you after the meeting also. They're looking for a resolution, okay?
 And it has tears in my eyes when I see it sitting there. It was defaced by people spray painted it. I cry. I can't do anything. It just sits there on the ground right next to the pavilion. And they won't let us set it in the ground because we don't have permission.
 No, we will. We'll have a conversation. And, you know, I've been in support of that. So we will get further communication with you. OK. And this was a tree originally always the same tree that that was there at the park. We just relocated it because we thought we could make beautiful addition to where the dead pine tree was. Everybody approved it. But then it gets sidetracked. And that's where we're at now.
 Okay. Dr. Malik, could you CC me on that too? Thank you, Mr. Goodchild. We were a part of that. Karen, why we're not, we're a part of all of that. Thank you. And so it's something special. Are we still under privilege of the floor? Yes, we are. Okay. Today, my name is Ophelia Gooden-Rogers. You want to do something first? I have one person that needs to speak. Okay. I can be last. Thank you.
 Mr. Don Foster, please unmute yourself and state your name and address. Well, hello, everybody. Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street. Can you hear me okay? Yeah. So first, I'd like to thank Councilman Dr. Oliver Davis and Councilwoman Sherry Bolden Simpson for speaking out regarding Sheila Skosky's May 13th assault on Logan Foster. They both showed true leadership.
 Secondly, I would like to call on my first district councilman, Kenneth Lee, to make a statement as he personally assisted President McBride with pulling Sheila Naskoski away. Next, as my at-large representatives, I'm calling for Karen White and Rachel Thomas Morgan to issue statements on Sheila Naskoski's assault as well.
 I am also calling for President Chair McBride to issue a public statement as she personally restricted Naskoski as she was assaulting my son in the very room you all are in right now. Also, thank President McBride for her quick action and situational awareness. It's much appreciated. You all are our elected leaders, and we deserve leadership. The time for action was on May 13th. Now it is October 28th.
 We do deserve better. Your silence is just unacceptable. Lastly, Vice President Sheila Skosky needs to resign from her position. We are not going away. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Well, before Ms. Gooden-Rodgers come, I would make a statement today. You had the police who was here that night and my job with anyone else here when I
 Vice president motioned to that area and calling for her. I did not restrain her, have to tackle her physically, try to,
 do anything that I wouldn't have done or to stop anyone in a verbal way. Not no intent that I saw nor in a police report or any statements or on video camera. So whatever narrative, you guys are welcome to come to the council, speak at the privilege of the floor, but continuing to come to think that
 To think you can corner me to make a statement to your liking is not going to happen. So you hear my statement of what I'm saying today. And this would be the only statement that I will make today. So there is a police report. We also have the rules committee. The rules committee met. The rules committee made a decision. And that decision is final.
 and there's no other discussion for me to say publicly to you or to anyone else in the community about that. So the decision stands and.
 You all were made aware of that. So I appreciate it. You're still welcome to come every meeting to say what you would like to say. But there's nothing else that you would get any further out of me for any other reason than that. So as the president, I still stand where I in that position and I stand in that position. So and the decision was made by the Rules Committee and I stand by that.
 Am I allowed to respond to that? No, you cannot. Am I allowed to respond to that since I still have three minutes? I still have time left? No, you cannot. Counselor Rogers, Gooden-Rogers? Yes, I also would like to speak on this subject because today I had a phone call from Mr. Logan Foster. And his statement to me was,
 Gooden Rogers, why you haven't made a statement? This is his exact words to me, like Oliver Davis and Sherry Bowden's symptom. Well, first of all, I am neither one of them. That's number one. I do not feel that I need to make a statement.
 about something that happened that's already been resolved by the Rules Committee, that's already been resolved by the Police Department. I feel that if this needs to go further, then Mr. Foster, you need to do whatever it is to get this resolved. I did go back and reread the police report. It did say, I asked Mr. Foster,
 Did she assault you? You said no. They asked you again. You said no. I don't know what you call assault.
 But according to what you said, the rules committee made some of their decisions off of what you said in your police report. OK, I am not here to get involved in personal matters. My job is to serve everyone in the second district. My job is not to police stuff like this. You need to do something and get this taken care of because I will not.
 make another statement, I will not be a part of whatever you have going on here that you need to get solved. Please do not ask me,
 About this again, I will take care of street curbs. I would take care of trees. I would take care of lawns. I would do all of that for you. But this personal stuff. No, I would not get involved in it. The next step of recommendation, the only resolve I see is for you taking a legal matter or going to the prosecutor's office. So from that standpoint, you are free and welcome to do any of the above for that.
 And that's probably what I would recommend that you would look into doing. Clerk Tirado, do you see anyone else? I do not see anyone wishing to speak under privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that being said, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.