Good evening. I would like to call Monday, October 23rd, Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone that's not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat and directions to do so are listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input in your virtual, please insert the following into the chat.
 and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. You put your name, your full name, and your address, and whether you're for or against the agenda item that you wish to speak about. You will be given five minutes to speak.
 In addition to provide input to speak at privilege of the floor, again, you put your name and your address in the chat box and the council president will call on you at that time. During public input, you have five minutes to speak. During privilege of the floor, you have three minutes to speak. And please remember to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you.
 Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome and invite Pastor Jason Miller of South Bend City Church up for the invocation. Welcome. It's an honor to be given a chance to pray with you and for you. Before I do, I'll just say I know that sometimes public prayer can feel more like an act of division or exclusion. I hope we find common ground in just choosing a moment to meditate on our best hopes for our city and our love for one another. And that'll be maybe a place where we can meet as we pray. Thank you.
 Loving God, I thank you for this chance to pray for the work of the council. I pray that you would lead each one of them in wisdom, justice, and love. That they would sense that there's a strength that sustains them and carries them forward in the hard work that they do on our behalf. I pray that in every part of their lives that they would find favor and encouragement as an act of blessing for the ways that they serve all of us in the city of South Bend. I pray for all in city government for the high calling on their lives in service to everyone who calls this place home.
 And I pray for every person in South Bend, that you would inspire us and strengthen all of us, not just those on the council, but all of us and our common work to make sure that this is a place where everybody on common ground can flourish. And so we ask for your power and your strength and your wisdom and this very important work that every person and every kind of person who calls South Bend home would be safe, seen, and honored. And I pray these things in your name. Amen. Thank you. Amen. Thank you.
 Thank you. At this time, we'll stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll, please? Yes. Councilmember Davis. Penders here. Councilmember Lee. Present. Thank you.
 Council Member Warner? Present. Council Member Wax? Present. Council Member White? Present. Council Member Tumas Morgan? Present. Council Member Hammond? Present. Okay. Vice President Neskoski? Present. President McBride? Present. We have nine present. Thank you. No reports from Subcommittee on Minutes, no special business, and no reports from the City.
 At this time, I would now entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meetings where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committees where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 68-23 a second reading?
 68-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend, Indiana for the calendar year 2024. Motion to accept substitute 68-23. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Nieskowski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. 6823 was heard this afternoon in personal and finance and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? Yes. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill before us. Dawn Jones, City Clerk, fourth floor of the County City Building. The purpose of this bill is to provide substitute information on the last page of this bill
 We took out the salary for the city clerk because this is the non-bargaining employees and not the city clerk's salary. That was the only difference. Everything else is okay. Okay. Council members, do you have any questions? I know there was a lot of discussion in the committee meetings. At this time, I would like to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of substitute bill 68-23?
 There's no one from the public, from the virtual public, wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. Okay. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 68-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 68-23. Motion to send 68-23 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. Second.
 All right, there's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right.
 Substitute Bill 68-23 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 70-23 a second reading? Thank you.
 7023, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10893-22, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2023 to correct a Scrivener's error in the wage tables for the equipment services work group
 include additional group leader position titles for the venues, parks, and arts workgroup, and add new positions for the Water Works customer service workgroup. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance, and Bill 7023 was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole.
 The petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share those key points regarding the bill that's before us. Kyle Willis, city controller, offices on the 12th floor of County City Building. We are admitting the salary ordinance to correct error for the Machinist 5 and Mechanics 5 wage rates. Those two should match.
 adding two positions to the Water Works Department as part of their reorganization, building an account specialist one and two. Those positions will be housed under 311, which is a part of the Innovation and Technology Department and will be a part of the one-stop shop area once we move over into the new City Hall building. And then there's three new VPA group leader positions that were added.
 to clear up their job titles. These are not new full-time positions. These positions existed. They're just clearing up the titles now, and they will be at the same rate as the other group leaders in VPA. Council members, do you have any questions? All right. At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 70-23? There's no one. Okay.
 There's no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 7023. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one virtually present expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 70-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 70-23. I move that we send Bill 70-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Second. DAVID BURRAGEONSKI, JR.: There's been a motion in the second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember White? Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. And I'm sorry, Councilmember Davis? Aye. Nine ayes. DAVID BURRAGEONSKI, JR.: All right.
 Bill 70-23 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 71-23 a second reading? Thank you.
 7123, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the acquisition, construction, and installation of certain additions, extensions, and improvements to the city's sewage works, authorizing the issuance of additional revenue bonds for such purpose in the principal amount not to exceed $36 million to provide funds for the payment of the cost thereof, providing for the safeguarding of the interests of the owners of said bonds,
 addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 7123 was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us the key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Thank you, Councilmember Lee. Eric Horvath, I'm Public Works Director with Office on 13th floor of this building. The bill in front of you today is an ordinance that would authorize us to do Sewage Works revenue bonds for the purpose of meeting our CSO long-term control plan consent decree requirements that we have. The first projects that we have as part of that consent decree requirement,
 are twofold, one to get the wastewater treatment plant to 100 MGD, which part of this project is a bottlenecks project on some pipes that need to be upgraded as well as the clarifiers. And then the second piece is equalization, that three million gallon equalization basin at the wastewater treatment plant to help us divert overflow that would normally go to the river into the EQ basin and then back to be treated through the wastewater treatment plant.
 So this would authorize up to $36 million in bonds, and we would look to close by the end of November on those bonds. Happy to answer any questions. Council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? If not, at this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 71-23? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 71-23. Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition?
 There is no one. I'm wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 71-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion. Question. I know that we're not, this is not germane to what we're voting on. But while Mr. Horvath is here...
 This council received an update about the curb and sidewalk allotment program and how that's going to work out for next year as we were supposed to be sending in our request for certain addresses. We have been. So I'm putting that out there right now. I know he probably will or can't answer the question or will be allowed to answer the question, but that question is out there on the floor while Mr. Horvath is here. Yes, sir.
 Real quick, thank you. Yeah, we will be getting that out to you. The delay has been that we're still working on the inventory that we're doing. As you guys well know, we had people on scooters going around inventorying every single sidewalk in the city for the first time in our history. And so we're hoping to get that data back, but we may need to just send it out without it and then just include that later. But at least then you can start getting your list together. I realize
 With the weather, it's always nice to get out and get your selections done earlier so you don't have to go out in the cold. So we'll get something to you. I'll plan on getting you something by the end of the week. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Thank you, Chair. All right. I will now entertain a motion. I move that Bill 7123 go to the full council with the favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There was a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Thank you.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 7123 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please read Bill 72-23? Okay.
 72-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2024. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. Bill 72-23 was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole.
 Our petitioner is here. I ask that you state your name and address and give us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Sharon McBride, 415 East Broadway, offices of the fourth floor in this building. What do you have before you as an ordinance setting the annual salaries for the common council members with a standard 3% salary increase that goes in line with proposal with many of our other city offices? Council members, do you have any questions? Councilman Davis. Thank you.
 President McBride, would you consider raising that to 5%? And the reason why I'm saying that is I think that it makes sense for a number of reasons, but also for the public process. People do not see this as a position of value because of the way that council members are paid. We make probably one of the lowest salaries here in the city of South Bend, but nothing happens without us.
 And as a result, I think that the idea of a higher salary gives not only the position a little bit more seriousness, but it gives others that may be interested in running for office later on some thoughts of actually doing it because it's probably worth their time financially. But I really believe and think that this council deserves a higher pay rate
 I've looked at other cities across Indiana and most of them have gone up very high, a lot higher than what they've been because it's necessary, because the job does require a lot of your time, and because it's necessary. So I just ask, would you be interested in raising it a bit higher than what it is right now? I appreciate the question and I know that there are...
 various council who also inquired about increase. But at the time, I think when we passed the first ordinance, during the presentation, we talked about not moving it forward until probably next year's appropriation because we already had moved to pass the three percent increase before the final from tonight.
 but if there's any other input of my colleagues that want to give their thoughts, they're welcome to do so at this time. But there was some discussion about that, but we reverted back to the 3% because we had already passed the initial when I made the presentation in front of the full council. So I don't even know if that's, I would turn to the parliamentarian to see if there's even something, but I know we already passed the 3%, so I don't know if there's any other dialogue that people want to chime in with.
 My colleagues, hello. I believe that the 3% President McBride was based on the budget that was passed. And since we already allowed for that budget within the council budget, most of us here felt that they had always followed the direction of what the rest of the city employees did.
 got as a raise, and since it was passed and the salary ordinance came after the fact that we were just comfortable with leaving it what the rest of the non-bargaining employees or the bulk of the non-bargaining employees received.
 I think that that was part of the reason because there was an appetite for more than a few of us who wanted it to be increased as well. But I believe, like I said, after the initial budget was passed in general, that's when the discussions start coming after the fact. So that's where we stayed with the 3% with the ideal of looking at it.
 after the beginning of the next year to see if that's a possibility to have it amended. I think also that the whole city is going to be doing a kind of review of salaries correct and right sizing and all that stuff. I would have to defer to the finance director at this time.
 Yes. How will the city controller, offices on the 12th floor of this building? Yes, you are correct. Next year, we do plan to have a study conducted on citywide salaries, comparison of cities of our size elsewhere, and also a study done on the department's budgets as well.
 You know the misnomer when we have these conversations is that I think that people believe and think that we're city employees. We're not a city employee. We're agents of the city. We're elected officials. So we are separated away from the aggregate, right? So when we say that we're going along with other employees' salaries, we're not an employee.
 We're going to make it comfortable for everybody else, but we're going to make it uncomfortable for ourselves. We have the authority to change what our reality is as we sit here and work at city business. I'm not going to be receiving a salary next year, but I think it is supportive of further movement of our democracy and also the council members that will be forthcoming in coming years. It just makes sense.
 for a person that works at these jobs, that go into these different committee hearings and whatever else that's out there, and you're only getting paid $23,000 a year, you're making less than minimum wage. It should be something that supports that council member. And I've been talking about this probably since 2010. Thank you. Any other comments? Sorry, I'm not in charge.
 You are in charge. You're the president of the council. No, no. I'm sorry. I was asking if were there any other comments. I was out of order because I'm not over the committee. Do something for yourself, Candace. Where we're at. Where we were is that questions started coming in after we passed the full budget.
 The presentation to the full council in the salary presentation was the 3%. We passed the budget, and that's when the discussions start coming after the fact of looking at after next year about having what Mr. Davis is to his point, looking at increasing that salary wage. Okay.
 Look, I'm not trying to jam up the process. I was just giving my two cents. So if you guys are happy with, satisfied with 3%, let's go for it. I was just stating. No, you make a good point. And I think after the first of the year, we are looking towards the recommendation that you have suggested. It needs to be 10% increase. But I'll go for Bill 5023, go to the full council with the favor recommendation.
 Second. 72. We still have a public hearing. Yeah, we still got it. I thought she already read that. I'm sorry. Is there anyone from the public wish to speak in favor of Bill 72-23? There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 72-23. Is there anyone that would speak in opposition? There's no one available or, sorry, expressing interest to speak in opposition as well.
 All right, at this time, I will now intern a motion regarding Bill 72-23. I'd like to move that we send Bill 72-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Vice President Neskowski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. All right, Bill 72-23 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would like to make a motion that we accept substitute Bill 50-23. Second. All right, Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Watts? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morton? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Clerk Jones, would you please give Substitute Bill 50-23 a second reading? Thank you.
 5023, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana, and amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 23114 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right, so this is a substitute bill, and it is, and is there a committee report?
 This would be from Lori. Councilwoman Hammond. Sorry. Yes, this was before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes with a favorable recommendation. All right, thank you. Petitioner, I ask that you state your name, your address, and share those key points regarding the bill that's before us. Sure, I'm Amani Morel, zoning specialist with offices on the 13th floor and today
 Bringing forward 23114 US 20 Highway. This is currently in unincorporated St. Joseph County. Owner is the St. Joseph County Airport Authority. And today we're looking at annexing and rezoning this. It's currently zoned C commercial in St. Joe County. And we're moving to...
 Rezone that to I industrial and city of South Bend the idea behind this project is it's a they're gonna develop this land into a Car wash and detailing shop for the other car rental Businesses at the airport to wash those cars and then bring them back. So this item this item comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation on annexation and rezoning and
 And actually, we're just going to do the public hearing portion. So at this time, the public hearing portion is open. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill, substitute Bill 50-23? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 50-23. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? No.
 There is no one present wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on bill, substitute bill 50-23, is now closed. All right. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and to report back to the full council. So moved. Second. All right. There's been a motion. It's been seconded. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right, motion carries. I'm lost. What just happened? It was only public hearing only.
 And we did the public hearing. Okay, I'm sorry. I thought I went to sleep at some point. No, this is public hearing for this bill. You have to wait 20 days. Okay, thank you. It's fine. I wasn't here earlier, so it's fine. All right. You're all.
 The full council is now back in session. Sir, you go sit down. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. We passed your bill. I'm sorry. This is your first time. I'm so sorry. See, that's why I said so. Welcome to the city of South Bend. Nice to meet you. You're learning by fire. No, we are done. Great job. You can report back. I see Mr. DeVita there. You're doing a great job. And yes, thank you.
 You can leave if you like, or you can enjoy and stay and watch the rest of the council. But this is your time. If you want to exit, you can leave. Oh, you've got to present the resolution. Yeah, so you've got to stick with us for a little while. Yeah, we've got one more portion of this. Yes.
 All right. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you give substitute bill 6823 a third reading? 6823, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, fixing maximum salaries and wages of deputies and non-bargaining employees appointed by the city clerk of the City of South Bend.
 for the calendar year 2024. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 6823? Yes. Substitute Bill 6823 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 6823. I would like to make a motion to adopt, I mean, to pass Substitute Bill 68-23. Thank you.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you. Bill 6823 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7023 a third reading?
 7023, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number...
 1 0 8 9 3 dash 22, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2023 to correct the Scrivener's error in the wage tables for the equipment services work group include additional group leader position titles for the venues, parks and arts work group and add new positions for the Waterworth customer service work group.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 70-23? 70-20 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 70-23. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 7123 has been adopted. 70-23 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 71-23 a third reading.
 71-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the acquisition, construction, and installation of certain additions, extensions, and improvements to the city's sewage works, authorizing the issuance of additional revenue bonds for such purpose in the principal amount not to exceed $36 million,
 to provide funds for the payment of the cost thereof, providing for the safeguarding of the interests of the owners of said bonds, addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent herewith. Thank you.
 Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 7123? Yes, 7123 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7123. Move for passage. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk, follow the roll, please. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye.
 Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 72-23 has been adopted. That was 71. 71-23? Right. Has been adopted. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give the final bill, 72-23, a third reading?
 72-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, setting the annual salary for the Common Council members for calendar year 2024. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 72-23? Yes, it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 72-23. Move for passage. Second. Been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Nieskoski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Nay. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 7223 has been adopted. Thank you. Now we're at the resolution portion.
 We ask that you please give your name and address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes for those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill if necessary. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2320 a reading? 2363. 2363. 2363.
 2363, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting a written fiscal plan and establishing a policy for the provision of services to an annexation area in German Township. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President McBride. This came before zoning and annexation this evening, and it comes to us with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Petitioner?
 Good evening, Michael DeVita, principal planner with City of South Bend, Department of Community Investment. The office is on the 14th floor of this building. So this fiscal plan is for a 2.9-acre annexation area that's been requested by the property owner of a parcel at the southeast corner of Old Lincoln Way West and Moss Road. As you heard earlier, a car wash and detailing facility for car rental businesses at the airport is planned.
 No capital improvements are proposed by the city now as part of this annexation. Water and sewer are both available along Old Lincoln Way West. Short sections of Old Lincoln Way West and Moss Road would be added to the city. The airport Moss annexation area will be added to the Common Council's 1st District and served by Police Beat 24, Fire Station 4, Emergency Medic 4, and Neighborhood Services and Enforcement Area 5.
 These and other non-capital services will be in place within one year of the effective date of annexation with response times comparable to other areas of the city. I then ask for the council's adoption of this resolution but be happy to take any questions you might have. Thank you. I'll turn to my colleagues to see if you have any questions for the petitioner. Do you have an idea of what revenue, additional revenue to the city might look like?
 This is owned by the airport authority, so another local unit of government, so it would be a tax-exempt property. That would remain even after the annexation? Yes. Okay. Any other questions? Great question. So it means that the first district is getting larger, right? Correct. All right. With that being said, I'll turn to the public, see if there's anyone in the public wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 23-63. Okay.
 There's no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 2363. Thank you. Same said, I will see if there's anyone present or in the virtual wishing to speak in opposition of 2363. There's no one virtually wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 2363. Thank you. With that being said, at this time I'll turn back to counsel. Are there any additional comments? Yes.
 Seeing none, the public portion is now closed, and I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2363. Move for adoption. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Resolution 2363 has been adopted. Bill's on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7423 a first reading. 7423, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1023 Quimby Street, Councilmanic District No. 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7423 to stop in plan commission for November 20th and back to Council to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on December 11th. So moved. Second. Been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Neskoski? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine, aye. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7523 a first reading? 7523, excuse me. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1119 Twickenham Drive, Councilman and District Number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7523 to ZNA for 1113. So moved. Second. It moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you. Will you give Bill 6223 a first reading? 6223, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, an ordinance to vacate the following described property, part of the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 38, north of the town.
 Range 2, east of the Second Principal Meridian, Portage Township, St. Joseph County, Indiana, being more particularly described as follows. Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 49 on the recorded plat of Northwest Addition, second plat in the office of the recorder of St. Joseph County, Indiana, fence south 90 degrees,
 west along the said southerly right-of-way line, a distance of 64 feet, fence north 0...
 Point 0513 west a distance of 60 feet to the northerly right-of-way line of said King Street, thence north 90.0000 east along the said northerly right-of-way line a distance of 64 feet to the point of beginning of the description containing 3,840 square feet.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 62-23 to Public Works and Property Vacation for November 13th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond.
 Vice President Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. President McBride? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Council, is there any unfinished business? Sure. Tomorrow we'll be working over at...
 I keep saying LaSalle Center, I'm dating myself. Charles Black Recreational Center tomorrow. It's the first day that we'll be working at LaSalle Park Neighborhood Association and playing with the city of South Bend. And I'm inviting my council colleagues out if you guys desire to show up. I think it will go a long way with the residents over there. It's the first of a series of meetings. Thank you. Anyone else? I would like to...
 to thank our Portage Township Trustee, Jason Critchlow. Yesterday they had a giveaway for Colts for Kids at Myers, which was in the first district. And it was a beautiful event, and hundreds of families were served and were able to get Colts for their kids for the wintertime. And then tomorrow is the annual Cops and Goblins at the Four Winds Field.
 And I believe that that's another great event for our kids and our community. Thank you. Any additional new business from council? At this time, we'll turn it to the privilege of the floor. Thank you.
 Disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and their actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. Individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be listed to three minutes only. Maximum time for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on tonight's agenda.
 Please state your name and address for the record. I have handouts for the council. Okay. Just before my time starts, I wanted you guys to have the handouts. I got you. And if you don't mind tilting the mic down some for you so we can hear you. You can state your name and address for the record, and the time won't start until. It's Logan Foster, 1138 College Street. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Members of council.
 I ask that you take these three minutes, listen to what I have to say, and I beg that you not call the cops to remove me from the building like Brianna did when I visited the mayor's office on the 14th floor of this very building on Thursday, October 19th. Counsel, I sent each and every one of you the video from after that encounter and video from during the encounter from when I just started recording. The mayor's staff for Brianna and the executive branch said
 verbally accosted me and beat me down while she was working in a public building. To make matters worse, I could not understand why the mayor's staffer would tell me to stop attending city council meetings and how the city council cannot help me and how I need to learn civics, all of which are inappropriate comments from a public staffer. Then upon further research, I found that
 I found that Brianna is or was earlier this year the campaign manager for the council president. With that said, this very much does have a lot to do with city council. Brianna told me that the city council cannot help me. She told me to stop attending the meetings. She literally yelled at me and accosted me about a dozen of other items that I outlined in an email to all of you. In an email that I have yet to receive a response from any of the nine councilors in front of me.
 in which I am supposed to be represented by four of you. On top of that, I found out that the mayor's staffer who called armed guards to remove me from this very building doubles as a campaign manager for the council president. Her active Twitter bio currently boasts that fact, a document all of you currently possess in your hands as I speak in front of you.
 Because the abuse occurred in front it because the abuse occurred in the office of the executive branch and the abuser is tied to this branch. This is a legislative branch issue. I need nine counselors to represent me and to condemn the actions on the 14th floor, regardless of any connections you may or may not have past or present. What transpired was a very serious abuse of power, intimidation, threat and reprisal from my government.
 Martin Luther King said, in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends. Dr. King also said, there comes a time when silence is betrayal. Thank you. If you have any comments. I don't know if counsel have any comments, but since I am the, what would you call me, petitioner or, I will address you. Thank you.
 Nice pictures, by the way, of me. I appreciate that. What I will say, there's no, whether Ms. McCool is my former campaign person or not, has nothing to do with your complaint that you have. When you first came to council, I met with you. Your district representative met with you.
 Mr. Wax met with you, Ms. White met with you, and Mr. Lee, to my knowledge, we all met with you. We immediately had a meeting with the police chief and his chiefs within the next 48 to 72 hours, I believe. Okay.
 You came to the mayor's night out and spoke with the mayor again and with the chief. You also copied us on emails from Chief Skibbins that he said that there were some points that you made that the police department will look into some of those points. You spoke with the mayor then. You went up to the mayor's office, and I'm not going to go beyond what happened at the council, but from that point, I don't know what it is, and I can't speak for the other counselors anymore.
 for me to do other than when I went to speak with the police about your concerns, which I would do to any
 citizen and will continue to do so. But once you went there, I can't make the mayor or any other department head respond to you if they choose not to. So unfortunately, you feel this way or if you have another complaint now against Ms. McCoo, you need to take it if you have not to City Legal because there's a separate branch between the council and the county.
 With that being said, when you initially was coming to me, before you started complaining about meetings with the police department, you were still complaining about Mr. Davis.
 At that point, I told you that no one on council can further discuss anything because you had a formal complaint on file regarding Mr. Davis. Those are the conversations that you and I have had, and those are the conversations that I stand by. With that being said, that's my response to you. So if you have any further complaints that you want to address with Ms. McCoo, or if
 or with the mayor's office or the legal department of the city, you're welcome to do so. What does that mean that no one can further discuss anything with me because of a complaint I filed with Mr. Davis? Because I asked the parliamentarian for clarification on that, and he said that was not correct. The clarification is if I heard him correctly, and what I just said is when you initially was still complaining about my colleague,
 you were advised that the council would no longer speak with you. I can't speak for council whether they've responded to you on email for your complaints after that because we're all independent other than you're coming here and say again that no one has responded. So that's a council thing that if they were to respond or want to respond, they can. But to my point, and I can only speak for me.
 spoken to you. I've followed up with the police. I've asked you to email with the mayor. I spoke to the mayor. The mayor said you spoke with him at the mayor's night out and you're welcome to do so. And I don't know what else to tell you from the council standpoint unless someone else has anything else to add. But
 Could I ask for clarification just for the record that when I spoke to the parliamentarian, I don't know if I'm allowed to address him specifically, but from our conversations, he said that that's not correct, that the council is allowed to speak with me, just not about my complaint about Mr. Davis. I think we just said the same thing. Okay, that's not what I understand.
 No, that's exactly what we're saying the same thing. Okay, because I haven't tried to email or ask about a complaint with Mr. Davis. My complaints have been about the judgment issues. Initially they were until later you stopped and started whatever your relationship or citizenship is with Mr. Davis. That's your...
 But before then, you were talking about that complaint. And that's when I told you from this point, the council cannot have any discussion with you about Mr. Davis. Now if it's shifted to something else and no one else responded to you, I can't speak for anyone else on the council. But I laid out the different steps and all the attempts that we've made. I really don't know what else there is that you would like for us to do because all of us, four of us, went down and speak.
 spoke with the chief, with all of the chiefs, understand that someone came to your home. There's, from a council standpoint, there's nothing else that we can do as far as you want to speak with the mayor. And so that would be it, and your time has, I've allowed you to go way past the time. Please state your name and address for the record. Well, thank you. Don Foster, 132 Chapin Street. And it's just as an observation. Okay.
 When Mr. Foster came up to talk, he was talking about someone pressing a panic button and being removed from the mayor's office just for asking for an appointment. And he just was bringing up that with the about a relationship you have and can you get some help? It's really what he's doing. He's been trying to meet with the mayor. Yes, he had his five minutes with the mayor, but that was to ask the mayor for a meeting. And he submitted questions to the mayor, never was responded.
 When he had a chance of talking from the press, he tried to bring attention to this and many things. He's saying to them, I just want a meeting with the mayor and he said he got his five minutes with the mayor. That was just the mayor's night out.
 That wasn't an official meeting. He was asking for a legitimate meeting from legitimate concerns from a city that's in trouble. If you want to press a panic button, we ought to press a panic button and not be telling everybody that the crime's not up, that the shootings aren't up. It's terrible what's going on out there. We all need to do something, not just you. You guys are working hard. The people of the city need to have awareness to know how to help.
 We need to help the police. We send them in harm's way all the time. And to go ask for a meeting with the mayor, someone shouldn't press a panic button to do that and have them removed by the police. It's ridiculous. We're getting way ahead of ourselves. And we're talking about a lot of things. You talked about a lot of stuff about his past and what he's been doing. He's been reaching out and he's been asking for help. And you went back through a whole path
 And so did the lady, young lady that did when he went to get asked for just a meeting. Like, why are you here? Do you have privilege to be here? He's there reaching out. He's trying to do something just like you guys are. We need to help you. And we need to come together as a city, as a people, to come together to help this city. Not just, it just sounds like a lot of blah, blah, blah to me. Back and forth, back and forth. Who said, he said, she said. We got to stop this stuff.
 We really need to interact together. I appreciate your comments, but I think what I wanted to do is lay out what Mr. Foster's concerns were and the steps that were taken. Other than me talking to the chief and talking to my colleagues, I think that that was a step and not a lot of blah, blah, blah. No, we're talking about right now though. He came right now by a panic button.
 mayor have an appointment with him. That's okay. I understand that. That's all you need to say. So there's another avenue that I told him. I don't know if he reached out to legal or if there's something else that he done. I also saw an email by one of my colleagues said that she sent the information to legal. From that point, there's a certain, the council can't make. Totally understand. So I appreciate it. Totally understand that. And immediately met with him and made appointments with the police department. So.
 There's nothing else I can make. I totally understand that, and that we're not bringing up today. He wasn't either, too, okay? He just wasn't bringing up that. I appreciate your time. Is there anyone else? You see anyone in the virtual? No, there's no one virtually expressing interest to speak in privilege of the floor. Thank you. With that, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.