I'd like to call to order the November 8th, 2021 Common Council meeting. Clerk Jones, I believe that there are some statements that you would like to read in regards to the meeting, as well as other expectations that we have. Yes. Yes.
 Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone that's virtually not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so will be in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following again into the chat.
 and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input. Insert your full name, the address, and what you would like to speak on, which agenda item, whether you would like to speak for or against the agenda item. You will then be given five minutes to speak, and please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you, Clerk Jones.
 I would like to read an additional statement. Disrespectful, rude, or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result in the person that is speaking to lose his or her turn.
 Again, we want to make sure that our listening audience and those who are present understands the meeting expectations as well as the link if you plan to join us virtually. At this time, our invocation will be given by Pastor Ryan Yasol of the South Bend City Church City Connections. We ask that you come to the podium and state your name and address, please.
 Hi, I am Ryan Yazel from 611 Leland Ave. Let's pray. God, we come to you as we seek the peace of our city. I thank you for this city and its people, our neighbors. I thank you for moments like tonight that we can come together and discern together how to best care for one another. And I thank you for each of these leaders who's sacrificing their time and energy in that endeavor.
 God just bless them, fill them and their families' lives with peace. And in moments like this, we ask for discernment of how we can care for each other well and care for all of the people of our city justly. Thank you. Amen. Thank you as well. At this time, I ask everyone to please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
 I was a leader student of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Who's here? Council Member Lee is excused. Council Member Warner. Present. Thank you.
 Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member Niesgowski. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President McBride. Present. President White. Present.
 8 present. Thank you. We'll now move to the report from subcommittee on minutes for the October 11, 2021 meeting. Clerk Jones? Yes. Report of the subcommittee on minutes to the Common Council of the City of South Bend. The subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the October 11, 2021 meeting and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved.
 Thank you. Now I entertain a motion regarding the subcommittee on minutes. Move for passage. Is there a second? Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. We'll now move to special business. We had three items under special business, but the first item was to present an award to the South Bend Venues, Parks and Arts Department, but the person that was traveling from the state at the state level was unable to make this particular meeting. So this award will be given
 at our Monday, November the 22nd meeting. We'll now move to Special Business 21-50. Clerk Jones, will you please read that?
 2150, a special resolution of the Southman Common Council acknowledging Domestic Violence Awareness Month, October 2021. Thank you, Clerk Jones. I would like to say that we realized that Domestic Violence Month was October, but we were unable to do so. And so that we will be offering this special resolution for your consideration.
 Bill 21-50, this will be given by Councilwoman Vice President Sharon McBride and myself. Resolution Bill 21-50, a special resolution of the South Bend Common Council acknowledging domestic violence awareness month, October 2021.
 Whereas domestic violence awareness month evolved from the first day of unity observed in 1981 by the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, which had the themes
 of mourning those who died as a result of domestic violence, violence celebrating those who have survived domestic violence and connecting those who worked to end domestic violence. And whereas Domestic Violence Awareness Month was launched nationwide in October, 1987, as a way to connect and unify individuals and organizations
 working on domestic violence issues while raising awareness for those issues. Whereas Domestic Violence Awareness Month is a sobering reminder of the harm domestic violence inflicts across our country.
 At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic means that for many survivors, abuse may be compounded by being isolated with an abuser, loss of income, and stress over the virus itself, said United States Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco. And whereas locally, hot,
 Here Are Tears is a nonprofit organization assisting individuals to gain freedom from various types of abuse, bullying, or violence they are experiencing, while also providing education to those interested in learning more about identifying and eradicating abuse, bullying, and violence in the environment and society.
 Whereas HOT, Here Are Tears, is dedicated to increasing efforts in addressing these issues and believes that through cooperation and community empowerment, they can facilitate progress. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the South Bend Common Council as follows.
 The South Bend Common Council acknowledges the contributions of Ms. Tracy Winston, president of Hot Here Are Tears and owner of Unique Boutique International, LLC, downtown South Bend for her efforts to solve the problems resulting from domestic violence. The South Bend Common Council remembers all those impacted by domestic violence in every form. The South Bend Common Council encourages all others to take an initiative stand, an affirmative stand against domestic violence.
 Thank you. Thank you. And so I would like to see if Miss Tracy Winston is in the audience. We do ask that you come to the podium. And if you would like to offer comments, we will definitely invite you to do so as well. Make sure that you state your name and your address. And if there's any of the members that would like to stand with you.
 Thank you so much for having us this evening. My name is Tracy Winston Williams, and it's been a long haul with the domestic violence. As you know, the pandemic had risen numbers in our community. State your address. My address is 1015 West Oak Street in South Bend, Indiana. I was born and raised in South Bend.
 So our team is here tonight. We're very grateful that you are acknowledging HOT here are tears. We have a lot of work to do and we cannot do it alone. So we're very happy and pleased that you have invited us to be a part of South Bend and to grow the community.
 The experience of domestic violence and what we can do to help folks in our community, because we need to eradicate domestic violence with education, intervention and preventative skills. We've been having the meetings for nine years now. So we invite the community in. I'm just pleased to be here. This is some of our board members. Name and address, please.
 I'm Elizabeth McLaughlin and I'm at 50677 Galaxy. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Doreen Henderson, 403 Cushing Street, South Bend, Indiana. My name is Cindy Cohen. I live at 19009 Layton, South Bend, Indiana. We want to thank the ladies for all of your work. And at this time, I don't know if any council members, if you would like to offer any comments.
 If so, please do so. Councilwoman Hammond. I would like to thank Councilwoman McBride and President White for bringing this forward. And I'd like to thank you ladies for all of the effort and the energy you put into helping women. It's a very important and serious issue. And our prayers are with you. And thank you.
 I'm willing to support in any way. Thank you. Any other council members? Council member Thomas Morgan?
 Thank you, Chair, President White. I, too, just want to add my gratitude and thanks for the service and ministry that you provide to our community. South Bend offers an amazing ecosystem of support for victims of domestic violence. And I'm proud that my own family, my husband, helped to start the Family Justice Center over a decade ago.
 and we too have been involved in the ywca and so together um we work to support and and uh victims of domestic violence and to break that cycle of violence that's so um that's such difficult work so thank you for continuing your work and um and and god bless you
 I'll go to Councilman Chor Warner, and then I'll go straight down the road and then come back. Okay. Thank you, President White, and thank you to Vice President McBride for bringing this. I made a call today over to the Family Justice Center just to get some numbers. I deal with this issue pretty regularly in my day job, but in 2020-
 There were 1,345 reported cases of domestic violence in the city of South Bend, 1,345, and those are just really the reported cases. This year, there's already 1,233 through the end of October, and so we're on course to even pass that.
 I was talking with one of the judges the other day. He estimated, we were talking about domestic violence and the severity of it, that approximately 20 to 25 to 30 percent of the homicides in the city are domestic incidents. So there's a severe incidence.
 epidemic going on that needs to be dealt with throughout the city and some proactive measures taken. And I thank the women for the job they're doing supporting victims and it's doing great harm to our city. And I thank you for raising the issue. Thank you. Any other council members would like to make any comments? Okay. Councilwoman Miscoske.
 Thank you, President White and Councilwoman McBride for bringing this forward. The work that you ladies do is so needed in our community, as you just heard the numbers from Councilman Warner. And I just wanted to say thank you. And thank you for giving women hope that when they think it's hopeless, because it truly is not. And you empower them to see that.
 And that is very powerful in itself. So thank you so much for the work that you're doing in our community. Awesome member. At the end of many comments, there's not much to add, but I just want to thank you for the great work that you do and keep it up. Awesome member Davis. Yeah. You know, I, um,
 have seen this way too much. And I, you know, there's never enough that you can say, or even enough that you can do, given the complexity of the issue. There's a lot that's in there when it comes to domestic violence. What I can say is thank you for your service to our community. I hope that it continues to improve and help those who need the help the most. If there's anything that we can do, I can do personally, please let me know.
 Again, we thank you so much for your work, your commitment, and your dedication. As you have heard from the council members, we are so appreciative of the work that you have done, and we know the work that you will continue to do. We do have some resolutions that we want to present to you, Tracy, and you can share those as well. Okay. So did someone want to speak?
 Ms. Cohen, okay please. Oh, she wants to take a picture.
 Thanks. Thank you so much. I just wanted to say just a couple things. I've only known Tracy for, I think like two years now, too. And I have to say what she's doing for our community at the grassroots level with no big machine behind her to help her is really pretty amazing.
 She is very grassroots. She gets into the churches and the community and talks to people individually through her boutique. And when she's out in the community doing her service work, and she's launching a community ambassador program this year, and it's just very exciting. She's highly motivated and doing a lot of great things in our community. Thank you so much. Thank you so much.
 Oh, a picture? Awesome. Let's do it. Artisan. Get the whole shoot. Follow me. Good. I'm going to line up here. Get back here. Take a picture. Get a picture. Is that a good thing? You're all being fabulous. Hi. May I just say hello? Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. I don't
 Special proclamation 2151. Clerk Jones, would you please read that? I do believe that Council Member Henry Davis will be presenting this special proclamation. I don't know who else will be joining you, Council Member Davis. Okay.
 2151, a special proclamation by the South Bend Common Council commemorating Veterans Day 2021, honoring all veterans and supporting the mission of Get Wet for a Vet, Inc. Thank you so much. I did notice that at-large council member Rachel Thomas Morgan, are you part of the special proclamation?
 You have Rachel Thomas Morgan, you have myself along with Lori Hammond and Sheila Gausby. Okay. All signed on. Ladies, you can join me at the podium if you would like. You can read this if you want because I don't like hearing myself read. And also, or we can just, I can just do my best through this and we will do the circumstance thing afterwards.
 so everybody's comfortable with it or take it away counselor okay here we go here we go so if I stutter over this or stumble help me out now um I would like to ask the uh the organization get wet for a brevet to join me at the podium as well and I think I'm going to allow them to introduce themselves prior to me reading this my name is Jim method I'm the president of get wet for a vet
 Would you like us to include our addresses also? Yes, please. 10291 Charles Street, Osceola, Indiana. My name is Elaine Lydene, Vice President of Get Wet for a Vet, 723 West Catawba Drive, Mishawaka. Dennis Kovach, 3829 Fernhill Drive, Mishawaka, Indiana. Jordan Kuhl, 312 West 7th Street, Mishawaka, Indiana.
 And there you have it. Whereas in November, in November 1919, President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed November 11th as Armistice Day, commemorating the end of World War I. And whereas in 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower changed our, you know what? Thank you. Armistice Day was...
 It's 2021.
 It changed our minister's day to Veterans Day and expanded to commemoration to all veterans in order that a graceful nation might pay appropriate homage to the veterans of all its wars. And whereas President Eisenhower vision of Veterans Day remains as a sacred today as it was in 1954 to let us solemnly remember the sacrifices of all of those who fought so violently.
 I'm sorry, it's one of those days, violently on the seas and the air and the foreign shores to preserve our heritage of freedom and let us reconsecrate ourselves to the task of promoting and enduring peace so that our efforts should not be wasted.
 have been in vain and whereas locally get wet for a vet incorporated embodies the honor due to veterans in its mission statement we work with all you to benefit the community by helping local veterans who have fought so vigorously for our freedom and whereas since 2013 get wet for a vet has donated
 Tens of thousands of dollars to veteran-oriented organizations such as Miller's Homeless Veterans Center, the Department of American Veterans, NCVMA, Vets Helping Vets, St. Joseph County, Blue Star Bombs, Michiana 22, Marine Riders, St. Joseph County Department of Veteran Affairs, Volunteer Fund, Combat Veterans, 14...
 That's three in Army Writers Chapter 118. And whereas it read for a vet is currently involved in the planning of the construction of tiny homes, villages for local veterans. Now for therefore let it be publicly and proudly proclaimed as follows. Section one.
 The sacrifices made by the American veterans should be remembered and honored each and every day, but especially so on the day proclaimed by our nation as Veterans Day. Section 2. At the same time, the sacrifices made by the families of veterans should also be remembered and honored each day and every day. Section 3. The contributions of organizations such as Get Web for a Vet,
 Incorporated, which supports veterans through both words and deeds, should be acknowledged and encouraged. Signed and approved this eighth day of November 2021.
 City of South Bay, Indiana. County of St. Joseph. And the state of Indiana. Henry Davis Jr., 2nd District South Bay Common Council Member. Rachel Thomas Morgan, at-large South Bay Common Council Member. Lori K. Hammond, at-large South Bay Common Council Member. And Sheila Nizgowski, 6th District South Bay Common Council Member. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilmember Davis. Is there anyone from the organization that would like to offer comments before I go to the councilmembers? Absolutely. Absolutely. Okay. It's easy to speak about something that we have such a passion in helping our community. What an honor to be here.
 receiving this from the Common Council. Thank you, truly. A little bit about us. We've raised over $300,000 in the last nine years, of which every penny stays local to local Michiana veterans. That's something we're very proud of. Henry Davis Jr. mentioned the construction of Mishawaka Troop Town, which will be the state of Indiana's first and the fourth in the nation –
 Tiny house veteran village for homeless veterans. That's something that we just cannot. But our reach goes a long way. We help dozens of veterans every year from anything from household furnishings to mortgage payments, utility payments, vehicles. The list goes on and on.
 Along with the Mishawaka Troop Town, we're working with the Center for the Homeless, where we're going to be putting up a building here within hopefully the next 45 days to where we can have a collection point for furniture and household items for homeless veterans. When they get residents, they can come to our organization, pick it up from the building and be self-sustainable. Again, thank you. No, thank you. Just wonderful.
 Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Jim's a good spoke. Oh, he's a good spokesman. Okay, well, I'm going to go to the council members to see if they would like to add any comments. I'll start with Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, who's a veteran herself.
 Thank you for your service. Thank you. And thank you for what you're doing for our veterans. And thank you, President White. I'd like to thank Councilman Davis for bringing this proclamation to the council. I am a veteran of foreign war. I served in Operation Desert Shield Desert Storm. And so I know what it means. Welcome home.
 And so I know what that day means. And to so many people in our community, to me, it's one of the most patriotic duties that you can do for your country is be able to know that you're willing to give the ultimate sacrifice for the country that you love so much. For me, it was coming back here and serving in the manner I am as well. So we just keep serving as you keep serving.
 So I want to thank you because I did do some reading up on you. I did look you up. And I know it's just not veterans, that they're families. And a lot of times so many of us forget the sacrifice they're families. They miss the childbirth because they're serving or the birthdays, the holidays, that you're not there. I know I missed a lot when I served. And those things are so important.
 And what you're doing for our veterans is important, and reaching out and helping them. I mean, it's just a wonderful, wonderful thing to do. I served also with the American Legion. I know some of the Marine Corps riders. So I know what big hearts that you all have and how much time and effort you put into holding those events and then giving. It's a lot of work, and then you give it all back.
 So thank you from the bottom of my heart, from our community, and thank you just so much. And welcome home to all of our veterans in our community. Councilman? I would also like to thank you. And in honoring what you do, it helps me to honor my father, who was a Navy veteran in World War II, and my brother, who served in Vietnam, too.
 So I thank you very much, and I understand the sacrifice, and we appreciate everything that all of you do.
 Councilman Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, President White. I, too, just want to add my deepest gratitude to the work that you do in our community to support our veterans. I have family members. My grandfather served in World War II, and I have my closest cousins and nephews in all branches of military serving in past wars.
 I know how important it is that they are supported by family and organizations. And in recognizing you this evening, we also acknowledge the many organizations in our community that support veterans, and I know we all work together to do so. I want to
 to say to all our veterans of all branches of military, as we commemorate Veterans Day this Thursday, to thank you, you here, Councilwoman Nitzkatsky, for the highest example of service that you provide as a model to all of us, for your sacrifice, for the sacrifice of your families,
 so that we might live in freedom and enjoy the liberties that we have. May we never take those for granted. That is the best way I think we have to honor our veterans and the service that you have given to us and our nation. Thank you. Thank you. Before moving to Councilwoman Sharon McBride, I want to make sure that Councilman Troy Warner, you had the T-shirt. Mm hmm.
 I don't know if you wanted to make any comments. It's a great organization. I've been supporting them from a long time, back to the IB when I was with the IBW, and thank them all for all the work they do for our community. I'm happy to go there and always donate my money. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Tell us one more time.
 Thank you so much. Thank you all for your service and thank you for your dedication to our community and to this country and making sure that no one is left behind. And I just want to say that I would definitely like to partner with you all. I'm also the Executive Director of St. Joe County Community Correction. So I have vets that are in our residential facility or on house arrest
 and to connect them with your program and services would be wonderful. So congratulations and I look forward to working with you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Councilman Eli Wax. Thank you. Each of us and everyone in our community has, I think, a duty to honor the vets for the ultimate willingness to put their life and limb at risk for our country.
 your organization i just want to thank you for not going above and beyond not just honoring veterans but helping them when they're most vulnerable and that's truly doing a service that we all
 are responsible for doing so thank you for taking on that important mission and I want to wish you success and everything you do going forward thank you sir I would like to echo all the words of thank you and gratitude um sometimes you know we may take our freedom you know that we have it but it was brought by a high cost and the work that and the commitment and
 The work that you've done going into foreign countries, fighting on behalf of our freedom. I know we do not take it lightly. We thank you so much. We honor you because you are due honor. And I can't wait to come and visit that tiny house. So when it's ready, call us and we'll be there. OK, we we're going to follow through. We're going to break ground on May 14th. OK, thank you. Congratulations.
 so i don't know if you want to take a picture oh yeah okay i like you yeah okay okay i don't know councilman davis do you want no i'm not going to belabor it i was going to tell a story but we're fine we're fine thank you bob for your help appreciate you thank you sir
 and i really don't know city
 Okay, okay, okay. She goes to her skin. No, you're not a skill. So, you know, President White, I am.
 We first interfaced with them when Mario Sims, because he was doing some things with his church and they came to help him out. And he's a veteran as well. Well, one thing that I remember about working with that organization is when Mr. Willie Williams turned 100 years old, I think he was one of the members of the church that you attend there.
 And they did this big thing for him. News Center 16, I think, caught it on the news. But God, I mean, the way that they organized like all of these different organizations that kind of sort of did the same thing, but they were all veterans and they had like this motorcade thing.
 And it was just all motorcycles. You could like hear like a mile away. It was just like this roar come down the street. It came to pick him up and put him in a really nice convertible. I think it was a Camaro convertible. And he smiled from ear to ear. I mean, he was 100 years old. He was a veteran from World War II. And so it was just one of those things like, you know, you'll never probably see ever again, given his age. Yeah.
 you know, in an assignment and just, you know, what they were able to present to him. Did this big shin dig over, I think it was American Legion 357 on Mayflower or is that Grant Road? One of the two. We all know where it says behind 7-Eleven.
 And so it was just like amazing what they were able to accomplish with the, you know, in a short amount of time, but also in a way to honor someone, this one individual. And they also did it again when he passed away. And it was just like they were just there and they were there ready to serve. They were there to honor. I mean, they present...
 a token, a gift to the family as well. It was just like they were constantly there over and over again. I just think those guys are awesome. I really do. Thank you so much, too, as well. I'll entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. Second. We have a motion and it's been seconded. All of those in favor? Aye. Thank you both.
 I'm sorry, Troy, we have to do virtual. Yeah, Troy's fault. Clerk Jones, will you do a roll call? Yeah. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you.
 Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that were given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from a chairperson of the Committee of the Whole, or from the committee, where the bill was discussed and results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Our first bill is bill number 110-21. Can I have a motion? Do I hear a motion to hear the substitute bill? So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, can you please call the roll? Council Member Warner.
 Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Misgawski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas-Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Could you please give Bill 110-21 a second reading? Yes. 110-21, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at the southwest corner of Adams Road in St. Joseph Valley Parkway, Councilmanic District No. 1. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. The Zoning and Analyzation Committee met on November 3rd, and we bring Bill 110-21 to the committee as a whole with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Mr. Molnar, I see you're present. Would you like to state your name and address for the record? Yes. Thank you, Council. Joseph Molnar, Zoning Specialist with Offices on the 14th Floor of the County City Building.
 Today before you is a rezoning from Neighborhood Center to I Industrial, and this is for property located at the southwest corner of the Adams Road and St. Joseph Valley Parkway, or commonly known as the bypass.
 A little bit of background on this site. This was annexed into the city in the early to mid 2000s with the intention of making it somewhat of a mixed use heritage square type development for the northwest side of the city. That's why it was brought in at the time under a PUD with a mixed use character.
 The whole point was to try to get an interchange at the Adams Road and bypass. That interchange did not materialize and the development did not materialize, but it was left annexed into the city. When the zoning ordinance was established in 2020, the new zoning ordinance, we did away with PUDs, and this was assigned the closest zoning district to it, which was the neighborhood center, traditionally mixed-use district.
 This doesn't really make sense out on the far northwest side of town. Currently, the land is agricultural and it's been used for agriculture use since the annexation. As you can see, it's also on the very edge of the city. The properties to the west and the south are actually in the unincorporated county.
 The development before you, there are two different items going on. The first is AEP is planning on installing a substation and is putting transmission lines towards that substation. That can happen regardless if the zoning goes through. They are requesting to zone, to rezone to I Industrial because they wish to construct a new service center, which includes approximately 98,000 square foot office and garage building and 15,000 square foot detached vehicle storage building.
 and then the substation will be located at the northeast corner of the site. AEP has submitted an updated plan to the city, which addressed some of the concerns that staff had and that members of the public have presented to them. Primarily, they pushed the building farther to the east, and they also changed the direction of the transmission lines to push those to the east as well.
 Primarily at that meeting, the committee meeting that Councilmember Hammond referenced, three written commitments were established by staff or proposed by staff, which we think should meet most of the concerns or at least some of the concerns that the surrounding residents have.
 The first of those written commitments is that the western buffer shown on the site plan presented of approximately 275 feet to the fence and 35 feet to the building shall remain in place with no buildings located within the buffer area. So essentially nothing in between the building and the western property line. All right.
 The second written commitment is a six-foot earthen berm shall be provided in the buffer zone. White pines, 12.5 feet on center, shall be installed on top for the portion not located under the transmission line easement. For the portion within the easement, a low-growth alternative shall be used, so a berm placed north-south along the western edge of the property.
 And then the final written commitment that staff is proposing is the western edge of the north-south AEP transmission line easement shall be located a minimum of 145 feet from the western property line. That is this dashed black line that comes in here. So essentially once those transmission lines come into the site they go further east and then north and south as opposed to the first time we saw this where they just ran north and south and blew up all the tree cover that was there.
 With those written commitments in place, staff feels like this is the best situation to go forward with the rezoning as it does provide some protection to the neighbors. As we know, the substation will go in no matter what zoning decision is made. Based on the information provided prior to the public hearing, the staff recommend the plan commission send the rezoning petition to the common council with a favorable recommendation. The plan commission sends it to you with a favorable recommendation as well.
 as long subject to those three written commitments that you see on the screen. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. I also know Angela Smith is online as well. And AEP I presume is online as well. I would just like to thank you for working with the residents and for AEP working with the residents to come up with these written commitments. And thank you Chair Hammond for having that committee meeting. I believe that it is agreeable with the neighbors
 as much as they possibly, it's going to go in regardless, but I am very happy to see these written commitments. And I believe that that will help stem some of the issues that they are having with this going in. The other piece, just so it's read into the record that these commitments shall run with the land and be binding on the owner.
 So these are not things that will change. Yes, the written commitments go with the property because they go with the rezoning. Perfect. Yep. Councilwoman told us Morgan question. Oh, yes. Yes. Go ahead. Thank you, Chair. I I also just want to to note at the at the committee meeting referenced. I appreciate very much that Angela,
 said that she would commit to address some of the traffic signage that residents had had brought up at that meeting and she committed to address with our city engineer and county engineer dylan road and orange road issues and and some signage that the residents had recommended there so appreciate that appreciate the residents bringing that suggestion to the forefront and for angela
 Any other council members? And there was a, just before we move on, I just want, there was a traffic study. Has that been completed yet? I don't believe that's been completed. That'll have to be completed before issuing a building permits though, I presume. Okay, thank you. Okay, so at this point, we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill? Please state your name and address for the record. Okay.
 My name is Wendy Wolf. I live at 51180 Orange Road, and I think that this is the best situation, and so I'm really wanting to thank everyone here for all of their time and effort to help us negate some of this. So, thank you. Thank you. Anybody else wishing to speak in favor of the bill?
 There's no one virtually that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Okay, thank you. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of the bill? Is there anyone online wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one virtually wishing to speak in opposition of this bill. Okay, thank you, Clerk Jones. Then at this point, we're going to close the public hearing on Bill, Substitute Bill 1110-21.
 Council members wishing to make a statement. I believe Councilman Davis, you had a statement. Yeah, absolutely. I just want to thank Chair Hammond, members of this council that participated, those from the public as well. What I asked for a couple of weeks ago was a bit unorthodox or more so against the culture or how we've been operating, but it was...
 needed that we had that conversation at a very high level and lengthy, I may add, so that everyone that is going to be impacted by what's happening over there, will have a full understanding of what's going on. I really believe if the homeowners and those who live in the area felt like that this wasn't there, was going to be a great quality of life after this is installed, or while this is going to be installed,
 there was an opportunity for this council to say, you know, stop, no hold off. And so that's what I was really interested in hearing. And the reason why I'm like that about this particular issue and so many others, but this one in particular is because the West side was impacted by a couple of stations that were being installed.
 new lights, I mean, excuse me, new towers and new substations for electrical units. And so many of those members and those people that were in those areas were impacted. And now we have like these huge like.
 uh polls i guess you would call them polls that are down western avenue that are like really unsightly that look like that they shouldn't be there et cetera et cetera et cetera and so i didn't want to see that happen to someone else i really didn't and i felt like that given my history of what that is and how that works out i think that everyone deserves to see um
 have to say so and what happens when their neighborhood and what it looks like later on. And so you got your say, so you say what you want it and you feel, I guess you're happy with it. I guess that's probably the best way of saying it. And so I look forward to this, you know, helping out with future development in the future in your area. Okay. Thank you. Is there any other statements from council members? Councilwoman Hammond? Thank you.
 um the other thing just to point out for public record is the substation is not something that the council can approve it is going in under eminent domain and will occur regardless of what the council chooses to do this has been a very emotional undertaking for the folks that live out in this area i appreciate
 Angela and Joe were willing to work as hard as they have to find a solution that actually satisfies some of the needs of the residents. So I appreciate that. Okay, thank you. Is there anybody else wishing to make a statement from the council? Okay, then at this time, I'm going to entertain a motion regarding bill substitute bill 1110-21. Move for federal recommendation. Second.
 Okay, there's been a motion and it has been duly seconded. Kirk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Thank you. Bill 1110-21 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. So we're going to move on now to Bill 125-21. Clerk Jones, will you please give that bill a second reading? Yes. 125-21, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2614 Ford Street.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes. Bill 125-21 this afternoon came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I see Mr. Molnar is back again. Back again.
 Joseph Molnar, Zoning Specialist, offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. Before you is a special exception request for property located at 2614 Forge Street. This is to allow for a duplex or a two-unit structure in a U1 Urban Neighborhood 1 zoning district. This is on the west side of South Bend on Forge Street, about one and a half blocks west of Olive.
 This is the site currently today. There was a house on the structure until 2019 when it was demolished. It is actually bounded on both the east and the south by alleys.
 Just some background on the larger neighborhood and census tract. The census tract has lost population for the least last two decades, since 2000. One interesting thing to note, though, is it did gain households from 2010 to 2020. So we did see an uptick of about 75 households in the last decade. So there is a demand to come to the neighborhood. The population is still shrink, though, because family sizes continue to get smaller. Okay.
 The petitioner has submitted this site plan and this rendering of the duplex as it would be constructed. It's a very traditional two-story duplex with one unit on each floor.
 and here is an up close of that rendering it was the city staff's opinion that reactivating a vacant lot and adding uh adding development to the neighborhood should be of benefit uh it is in line with the neighborhood as on Ford Street as indicated by here there are a couple already small multi-family uh properties already along Ford Streets this isn't necessarily out of character with anything in the neighborhood
 It went to the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation from staff, and the Board of Zoning Appeals is sending it to you as well with a favorable recommendation. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have, and I did see that the petitioner is online as well. Thank you. Does the petitioner wish to make any comments at this time? If so, please state your name and address for the record. Yeah, thank you. My name is Tim Hawkins. I'm with Jeff Jenks Law, 450 East 96th Street, Suite 500, Indianapolis, Indiana.
 um just want to say again and i don't just say this to everybody but i'm glad i get to say it to the to the entire council that uh i'd speak and work with a lot of plan commissions and and their staff and i just got to say what a what a pleasure it's been by far my best experience here in south bend so thank you all for that thank you mr moehner specifically and uh i appreciate your consideration today both chairman herring earlier and uh madam president thank you
 okay thank you um council members do you have any questions at this time councilman warner do you have any questions okay then at this point um thank you mr molnar and mr hawkins we're going to move to the public hearing portion is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 125-21
 Jason Benicki, 3822 West Ford Street. Kind of like Joe said, that neighborhood and kind of a whole lot of the West Side has kind of this rich tradition of duplexes and quad housing and mixed use of, you know, business on the first floor, one or two apartments on the second floor. It's kind of nice to see that they're trying to bring some of that back instead of sticking to just, you know, single family, single lot kind of thinking it's nice to see.
 some ways to try and make housing more affordable and housing more affordable and repurpose some of these vacant lots. So I think this is a great idea. Okay, thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor of Bill 125-21? There's no one virtually that is expressed an interest to speak in favor of Bill 125-21. Okay, thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point then we're going to see if there's anybody wishing to speak in opposition.
 There is no one wishing to speak in opposition of this bill as well. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 125-21 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding this bill?
 Okay, then I would just like to make a statement myself and say that I am the 6th District Councilwoman, and I really appreciate this project coming to the west side of South Bend. It is a fit for the neighborhood. I did talk with some of the residents and some of the business owners there, and they're very excited about this development. So thank you so much, Mr. Hawkins, for bringing this to the west side of South Bend.
 and let me know if you have any other lots you may be interested in over there. I could probably point you out to a few if you would like some guidance in that department. So at this time, if there's no other statements, oh, Mr. Warner, Troy Warner, would you like to make a statement?
 I just wanted to thank the petitioner for his investment in the city and for taking this effort and building the duplex. And I wish you all the success and hopefully we can see a lot more. Absolutely. Thank you, Councilman Warner. So at this time, I'm going to entertain a motion regarding Bill 125-21. Chair, I move that we send Bill 125-21 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Nizgowski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Bill. 125-21 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. The last bill that we have
 Yep. Is Bill 128-21? Clerk Jones, would you please give that bill a second reading? Yes. 128-21, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1710 North Turtle Creek Drive. Thank you. Is Mr. Molnar or the petitioner present, please?
 Good evening, Council. For the last time, Joseph Molnar, Zoning Specialist Office is on the 14th floor of the County City Building. I'll keep it brief because I know you've all seen this a couple times now. This is the proposed redevelopment of Campus View Apartments or otherwise known as Turtle Creek. You saw this last month and approved the special exception for shared housing.
 Going back and looking at it, we noticed that part of the legal description did not include this section of campus view, so we're just going back to make sure everything is up and legally sound. This is an example of what the buildings currently look like. They were constructed in the late 1960s, and as used as student housing, you can understand 50 years of being used as student housing. There's been quite a wear and tear on them today.
 Shared housing allows for up to or no more than four individuals that are not related to live in one apartment unit. Our definition of family currently caps that at two. So this allows for there to be up to four individuals. The site is already used as student family or I'm sorry, student rentals. But because they're clearly demolishing the site and rebuilding, they would lose that grandfathered status and have to reapply for the shared housing.
 They've submitted a couple different site plans that we're still working through, but they've committed to following the vast majority of the zoning ordinance, and we've been happy with the progress we've made on the different types of site plans. Here's a proposed rendering of what the site could look like.
 With that, the staff sent it to the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation, and the Board of Zoning Appeals is sending it to you with a favorable recommendation as well. There was essentially zero change from the petition that was requested last month that you did approve. I'd be happy to answer any questions, and I know the petitioner is here as well. And just to add that it did come before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable also.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Councilwoman. Would the petitioner present like to make a statement, please?
 Thank you so much. George Levinotis on behalf of the law firm of a Creek DeVault 4101, Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka, Indiana. My partner, Steven Studer came before you last month to tell you the details of the project. I think he was very thorough. He usually is. So we're sorry to waste your time tonight to have to come back and do this again, but a mistake was made and how it was publicized. So we wanted to be sure that it was, uh,
 on the up and up and legally correct. So it was advertised properly with all legal descriptions, and this is the final piece of the puzzle. So again, thank you for your time and consideration, and I failed to answer most questions. I am pinch-hitting tonight, so I'll do the best I can. Okay, thank you. Is there any council members who have a question? Councilman Warner?
 No? Okay. It doesn't appear that anybody has any questions, so you must have did a very good job. The best three sentences I've ever uttered in my life. By the way, I don't want that other attorney from Indianapolis to be the only one to say the zoning department is awesome. Very easy to work with, so thank you. Yay. Okay, so at this time, we're going to move to the public portion hearing. Is there anyone here from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 128-21?
 There is no one from the public wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. Okay, thank you. Then at this point, the public hearing on Bill 128-21 is now closed. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding the bill? Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion regarding Bill 128-21.
 I move that we send Bill 12821 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Okay, there has been a motion and it's been duly seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskotsky. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Bill 128-21 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. So I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll?
 Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you.
 The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. At this time, Clerk Jones, will you please give third reading to Bill 110-21.
 1-10-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at the southwest corner of Adams Road and St. Joseph Valley Parkway, Councilman and District Number 1. Thank you. This bill has been accepted as a substitute, as amended under the Committee of the Whole. Councilwoman Niskowski, is there a recommendation? No.
 from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 110-21. Yes, President White, Substitute Bill 110-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 110-21. I move for passage. Is there a second? Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Warner.
 Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Substitute Bill 110-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give third reading to Bill 125-21.
 125-21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2614 Ford Street. Thank you, Councilwoman Naskowski. Is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 125-21?
 Yes, President White. 125-21 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would entertain a motion regarding this bill, and that's Bill 120. Move for passage. Second. We have a motion. It's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Council Member Warner.
 Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nizgowski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Bill 125-21 has passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give third reading to Bill 128-21.
 128.21, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1710 North Turtle Creek Drive. Thank you. Councilwoman Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 128.21?
 Yes, President White, Bill 128-21 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 128-21. Move or pass? Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Warner?
 Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 128-21 has passed.
 We do not have any resolutions. We'll now go to Bill's first reading. Clerk Jones, would you please give a first reading to Bill 130-21?
 130-21, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 20, Article 8 of the South Bend Municipal Code to address truck routes through the city and the rules and regulations of trucks and large vehicles. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion to send Bill 130-21 to Public Works and Property Vacation Set for Committee Public Hearing.
 for November the 22nd. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Nieskowski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. President White? Aye. Eight ayes.
 Is there any unfinished business? Council Members, Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you, President White. Now that we have made our way through the budget process predominantly, I'd like to ask the Council to refocus our energies on the CRB board member nominations. Almost two months ago, I sent out emails to the district
 Council members and I know we've all been really busy, but I did not get a response regarding some of the people of interest amongst those that have applied in your district. So again, if we could just all now that the director job is being posted, if we can kind of double back and place our energies back toward the board and getting those positions identified.
 That would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other unfinished business? I will now go to new business. I would like to make the announcement that our last meeting for this calendar year will be Monday.
 December the 11th, 2021. And this has been a practice that we will only have one meeting in December. Would like to also say that at the March 22nd meeting, I will not be in town and Councilwoman Vice President. I wish it was November. Okay.
 Okay. November the 22nd, 2021, I would be out of town and Vice President McBride would be in the chair, but also the dates for the 2022 council meetings will be available and that the council will have opportunity to see those dates, after which they will be posted on our website.
 is there any other new business councilman davis yeah i just want to invite everyone out to um another town hall meeting that we're having that i'm having and i'm hosting this won't be at the charles um martin youth center on lincoln way west this coming wednesday from six to eight we're still talking about affordable housing we'll have a uh
 A panel full of experts, actually, along with some developers as well as some contractors. So I think it will be a great opportunity for public as well as council members to come out and take part. You will be receiving a press release tomorrow sometime about it as well. Thank you. Is there any other new business?
 Seeing now will go to the privilege of the floor. Is there anyone present wishing to speak under privilege of the floor? Or is there anyone virtually wishing to speak under privilege of the floor?
 i don't see anyone virtually that is expressing interest to speak on privilege of the floor thank you is there anyone present wishing to speak under privilege of the floor seeing that there is no one this meeting stands adjourned yeah right man thank you president yeah right i think that is a first early christmas gift it's not christmas
 Yes, it was okay.