Please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. He's excused. Council Member Warner. Present. Council Member Wax. Present. Council Member White. Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council Member Hammond. Present. Vice President Nieskoski. Present. President McBride. Present. Is Father Jeff Mooney here from St. Joseph High School? Can you check to see if he's online? No.
 If not, we would ask that Ken Hardy, if you would please give the invocation. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly God, our Father, we thank you, dear Lord, for another wonderful and great day. We thank you for these civic leaders, Lord. We ask you that you bless them with the spirit of justice and gratitude to look over this great city of South Bend. We ask you for your blessings.
 and your mercy in christ and we pray amen amen may we stand for the pledge of allegiance allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all thank you victoria will you um call the role please
 Council Member Davis, I already did. I already called the roll. You already called the roll. Yes, you did. Let's see the reports. Some committees, there's none. Yes. Would you please give a statement? Thank you so much.
 Good evening members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for Council members as well as yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat. Directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 You'll be given five minutes to speak during public input. Please be sure to unmute yourselves prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you so much. At this time, we'll go into the special business. Would you please read Resolution 2254? Special Resolution 2254.
 special resolution of common council the city of south bend indiana commemorating november 19th 2022 as women's entrepreneurship day in south bend indiana and celebrating women's entrepreneurs who play a vital role in strengthening south bend's economy thank you so much um our sponsors if you wouldn't mind going to the podium we have karen white rachel thomas morgan and sheila niskowski
 this is the two of the two of you okay councilman thomas morgan and counselor niskowski good evening president mcbride and council members rachel thomas morgan one one four chapin street south bend and sheila naskatsky 4942 scenic drive south in indiana thank you so much thank you more recently i've come to know a woman in our community miss cindy cohen she's a registered nurse
 and founder of C2 Your Woman's Health Initiative, and organizer for the annual Women's Entrepreneurship Summit. She had reached out to me and came to know her through phone call and email correspondence. I shared with her our own city's commitment to inclusive procurement efforts
 and to growing women enterprises in the city of South Bend and increasing women and minority contracting in our city's public works. I found in her a fierce advocate for this work and in my
 in my own work on our IPC board and our council's commitment to inclusive procurement, I've come to work more closely with others across our community, also deeply committed to inclusive businesses and contracting in our city.
 Those include the organizations who are mentioned in our resolution this evening. I also wanted to say my own work internationally over the past two decades in over 30 countries around the world with community-based organization and nonprofit, non-governmental organizations, support the research that we know about women businesses in this organization.
 community and around the world. And that is, the research shows that women-led and women-owned businesses are responsible borrowers of microcredit loans. And furthermore, women, with their earnings, use their earnings to support their families, their children's education, put food on the table, and help to upkeep their homes.
 And so with that, we know that when we support women-led and women-supported businesses, we are supporting families in our community and around the world. So it gives me great pleasure to present this resolution with you, along with Council Member Sheila Nitzgatsky, and in collaboration with our Mayor, Mayor James Mueller.
 I'll turn it over to Councilmember Niedzgazki for her comments and then we can read the resolution.
 I would just like to thank Rachel Tomas-Morgan for including me in this resolution. It is so important that we recognize the commitment to women in our community that are opening businesses, supporting their families, and more importantly, is an important economic driving force in our community, state, and our nation. So without further ado, I would like to begin reading the special resolution.
 A special resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, commemorating November 19, 2022, as Women's Entrepreneurship Day in South Bend, Indiana, and celebrating women entrepreneurs who play a vital role in strengthening South Bend's economy.
 whereas women in developed and developing nations alike are contributing to the diversity and inclusiveness of business expansion at a rapid rate and are vital to the growth of local and global economies and whereas in the united states according to a twenty seventeen study
 Conducted by the National Association of Women Business Owners, more than 11.6 million firms were owned by women, employing nearly 9 million people and generating $1.7 trillion in revenue. According to that same 2017 study,
 women-owned businesses comprised 39% of all private firms, contributing an estimated 8% of employment across the United States and 4.2% of revenue. And whereas American Express's annual State of the Women-Owned Business Report in 2019, which merges data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the Census Bureau,
 found that 42% of all American businesses are owned by women and estimates America's total number of businesses led by women climbed 21% between 2014 and 2019 to nearly 13 million operations, while overall business growth in the U.S. was about 9% during that same period.
 Meanwhile, revenues generated by women-run businesses ballooned 21% to $2 trillion, while the jobs they created rose by 8% to $9.4 million, both growth totals exceeding the national averages for companies headed by executives of any gender.
 And whereas in Indiana, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration 2021 report, women made up 47.3% of the workers and owned 187,915, which is 42.4% of businesses across the state.
 And whereas according to the most recent US census reported in July of 2021, 11.8%, 690 of businesses in St. Joseph County, and 12% or 239 of businesses in South Bend were women owned. And whereas despite positive growth, the barriers for women owned businesses, especially minority owned women businesses remain real.
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce latest survey indicated women-owned small businesses were the hardest hit, and since the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, many women and minority-owned businesses have closed nationwide, with South Bend being no exception, while the gender age gap continues to see disparity across Indiana and the United States.
 And whereas eradicating extreme poverty across our state and closing the gender gap in our nation depends on ensuring inclusiveness, economic growth that reaches typical excluded populations like women and communities of color.
 And whereas Women Entrepreneurship Day is a global movement to recognize and promote the advancement of women entrepreneurs, support women in business by encouraging women leaders, innovators, and entrepreneurs to initiate startups, drive economic expansion, and advance communities worldwide.
 And whereas the economic impact of women-owned businesses is undeniable, from the trillions they generated via revenue to the millions of jobs they provide, and the Women Entrepreneurship Day celebrates this and furthermore empowers women and girls to be active participants in our global and local economies and to build a network of women leaders.
 And whereas Women's Entrepreneurship Day is celebrated in the United Nations in over 144 countries and annually in the state of New York, the cities of New York, Philadelphia, and Los Angeles. And whereas the state of Indiana recognizes and promotes the advancement of women's entrepreneurship through our state and nation.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1. We, the South Bend Common Council, with Mayor James Mueller, do hereby proclaim and commemorate November 19, 2022, as Women's Entrepreneurship Day in South Bend, Indiana, and commend its observance to all residents. Section 2. Section 3.
 The Common Council joins with the Mayor to recognize and thank organizations such as C2, Your Women's Health, Women's Initiative, Inc., the University of Notre Dame South Bend Adversity Entrepreneurship Program, St. Mary's College SPARK Program, the South Bend Regional Chamber of Commerce, and others who are supporting, mentoring, and growing women-owned businesses in our community.
 Section 3, the Common Council joins with the mayor and community organizations calling for residents to support women entrepreneurs in our community by patronizing, investing in, and promoting women-owned businesses. Section 4, the Common Council joins with the mayor and community organizations to celebrate and highlight the creative women entrepreneurs who play a vital role in driving innovation, strengthening South Bend's economy, and creating jobs.
 Section 5, in so doing, South Bend will continue on the path to being a more vibrant and prosperous community. Section 6, this resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the mayor. Thank you, council members, for entertaining this resolution. Thank you so much. At this time, I will turn to you all to see if you have any additional comments. Thank you.
 Wonderful. I'd like now to invite our community organizations who I've named and any others who would like to provide comments. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. You all are welcome to come up right now at the same time. Thank you. My name is Cindy Cohen. My address? Yes. 19009 Layden, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Thank you. I feel like an overnight sensation with a five-year head start. Thank you.
 Women's Entrepreneur Day is an opportunity to recognize and honor the critical role women-owned businesses play in strengthening our economy. Did you know that women-owned businesses in Indiana account for 37% of all businesses? In St. Joe County, 11.8%, which equals 690 women-owned businesses. And in South Bend, 12%.
 I'd like to point out there's a big difference between 37, 42, and 12% in South Bend. If you don't believe the statistics are accurate, which many people don't, consider that South Bend, that this 12% only equals 239 businesses to choose from. So let's take a look at that 12%. I'd like to challenge you starting today to only shop at businesses that are women-owned.
 or businesses that employ women-owned businesses, and from this day on, use products and services that are purchased only from women-owned businesses. And you will see how few women-owned businesses we have. Women entrepreneurship is not just nice or cute, it's important.
 You may not know this, but 50% of women who seek entrepreneurship do so because of financial emergency, like the need to pay for shelter or food for that day, or maybe an urgent reason like they lost the income from a death, disability, or absence of a spouse.
 From launching a dream business to creating communities and finding new ways to do business, women entrepreneurs have so much to be proud of, and what we want them to know is that we're proud of them too. Today and every day is a day to celebrate the power and potential of women entrepreneurs while recognizing the barriers they overcome and the trials they endure by trying to build a business.
 I am proud to support the City of South Bend who stands alongside 144 countries worldwide, bringing awareness for the significant economic and social impact of women-owned business in our community.
 Now more than ever, women entrepreneurs are playing an essential role in ongoing economic recovery from creating a new startup venture, pivoting how they do business, and in some cases completely reinventing their business by means to meet their neighbors' needs.
 C-Tier Health Women's Initiative is a non-profit organization founded five years ago. Our goal was and still is to support women from low-income neighborhoods and domestic violence, low-income neighborhoods and domestic violence, seeking entrepreneurship by providing connections to role models, mentors, resources, and inspiration. In the beginning, we were looking to start a grassroots movement for the women in our community,
 to come together to support each other in seeking entrepreneurship as a means of economic security, no matter what ethnic background, financial means that they happen to find themselves in. We're about encouraging women leaders, innovators, and entrepreneurs to initiate startups, drive economic expansion, and advance the place that we call home.
 Alongside the women in our community, we stand for the future of women entrepreneurship, inclusiveness, and advancement. Together, we are all stronger. Women entrepreneurs play an essential role in the strengthening of our economy, nourishing our communities, and creating magnificent impact.
 I encourage everyone to show your appreciation today and every day by supporting local women entrepreneurs, women business owners, enterprises, and charities that support women in our community. And I have to say we have big news today. Governor Holcomb and the state of Indiana will be recognizing, honoring, and celebrating Women's Entrepreneurship Day along South Bend and Mishawaka and all St. Joe County on November 19th.
 On behalf of the women entrepreneurs of our community, thank you to Mayor James Mueller, the South Bend Common Council, and the citizens of our beautiful South Bend, Indiana, for setting aside time to support the women entrepreneurs in our community on November 19th. Thank you. Thank you so much. Please state your name and address.
 Hi, my name is Vida Harley. My address is 3624 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46615. My organization is Women Entrepreneurs Matter. Be bold, be brilliant, be empowered. I am ready, we are ready. I'm really excited today to be presenting on women entrepreneurship. I want to thank the council and the mayor for recognizing women entrepreneurs. We work very hard every single day
 Because it's women who really make things happen. And y'all know what I mean.
 I'm excited because I'm also one of the original founders of the Women Entrepreneurs Summit. In 2018, there was only 2% of women entrepreneurs in our area, and they say that 70% were failing. So we knew that we had to do something, and we had to do it fast. I had met Cindy at a one-on-one center along with the federal government who came through and said, look, you only got 2% women entrepreneurs. All of your money is going over to Ohio and Illinois. What are you all going to do about it?
 So what we did was Cindy came up with the idea with CTO Health Initiative to do a summit. So we brought together like 15 women and we sit down and we talked about it. We had an advisory committee. No one was getting paid. Nothing in it for for anyone but women entrepreneurs that we would help to build and make a movement in our area. At that time, it was just a few organizations doing a few things. But we said we wanted to create a movement.
 We want women entrepreneurs to see that they are somebody, that they can build a business, that they can overcome things like domestic violence and homelessness. And I know these things because these are the things that I overcame myself. I used to often say that why is it that God wants me to keep coming back here to South Indiana? Indiana, because I am a native.
 And I couldn't understand until we started working with women entrepreneurs. Now I tell everybody I met my real family because we are forward moving women.
 positive thinkers. We support each other. We nurture each other and we help each other to grow. And I would just like to thank the council for making this proclamation. Thank you for what you do. I was putting my hand out for it. And thank you too, because we really appreciate it. I did a lot of things in this community and most of the times I don't do it with a budget because
 I live with purpose and I want to show other women that we can all live with purpose. And that's what you are doing for us to let us know that we do count. We do matter. And I'm working on right now, keeping the making the organization local and going global with it. So people can realize that women entrepreneurs do matter. Thank you. Thank you so much. With that, I'll turn to counsel, see if there are any comments from counsel. Counselor Hammond.
 Yes, I've known Cindy Cohen for about 20 years and bold would be a word I would give to Cindy. Definitely. It's a pleasure to see all of you here and we're more than happy to support your efforts in this initiative. So congratulations. Councilor White.
 It's so exciting to be a woman, isn't it? I thought I put that plug in. I'm going to take the statement that Cindy made, and I wrote it down, so I definitely was paying attention earlier.
 Today and every day is an opportunity to celebrate and support women-owned businesses. And again, this is just our beginning to show you that we are aware, we support each and every one of you, and we'll do our best to continue to do so, so that you can move forward boldly and with purpose. Thank you so much. I would just like to add something.
 Thank you, all you fabulous women, business owners in our area. And I am privileged to be a part of the network and some of the events that you have. And thank you for the invitations. And anytime, continue to invite me and communicate with me. And we really, really appreciate what you're doing and keeping local businesses here in our area and showing how powerful we can be.
 Thank you so much. Thank you, President McBride. If you don't mind, if all council members would come down and have a photo with some of these women entrepreneurs, I'd really appreciate it. Thank you. Chief Deputy Clerk Trujillo, would you please read Resolution 2255?
 Bill 2255, a special resolution of the South Bend Common Council commemorating Veterans Day 2022 and honoring all veterans. Thank you. Sheila Nizgatsky, 4942 Scenic Drive, South Bend, Indiana. Sharon McBride, 415 East Broadway, South Bend, Indiana. Tonight we bring to you a special resolution commemorating Veterans Day.
 Commemorating our veterans is very important as they sacrifice for our community, state, and our nation every day and continue to do so. I am here with President McBride and bring you this resolution before us.
 So a special resolution of South Bend Common Council commemorating Veterans Day 2022 and honoring all veterans. Whereas an armistice ended during World War I between the Allied forces and Germany went into effect on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month of 1918. And whereas in November of 1919 President Woodrow Wilson,
 proclaimed November 11th as Armistice Day, commemorating the end of World War I, declaring that the day should be filled with solemn pride of heroism of those who died in this country's service with gratitude for the victory. And whereas on May 13th, 1938, an act was approved, which made November 11th and each year a legal holiday, intended to honor our veterans of World War I.
 And whereas in 1954, President Dwight D. Eisenhower changed Armistice Day to Veterans Day and expanded the commemoration to all veterans in order that a grateful nation might pay appropriate homage to veterans of all of its wars. And whereas President Eisenhower's vision of Veterans Day remains as sacred today as it was in 1954,
 to let us solemnly remember the sacrifices of all those who fought so valiantly on the seas, in the air, and in foreign shores, to preserve our heritage of freedom, and let us reconsecrate ourselves to ask, to task of promoting and enduring peace, so that their efforts shall not have been in vain. Now therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of South Bend
 as follows the sacrifices made by american veterans should be remembered and honored each and every day but especially on the day proclaimed our nation as veterans day at the same time the sacrifices made by the families of veterans should also be remembered and honored each and every day this resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption by the common council and approval by the mayor
 Thank you. And at this time, we would like to pause. If there are any veterans in the audience, if you could please raise your hand or stand. We would like to thank you for your service. Thank you so much. And I don't know if you would like to make any comments. OK. Thank you so much. First, I want to thank Vice President Sheila Niskowski for her service as well and for our country. And thank you so much.
 Thank you, President McBride. For those of you that don't know, I come from a long generation of Army veterans. My jaja was in World War II when Poland fell. My dad was a Vietnam veteran. I was a veteran of Desert Shield Desert Storm, and I have a nephew that went to Afghanistan, all served in the United States Army. Now, I love all the other forces, too.
 So I don't want to say that they're not. I mean, we all work collaboratively together, but it's always such a special day for me and a deep day of reflection. So thank you for allowing us to present this to you today. With that, I'll turn to council, see if there are any comments.
 Just thank you for your service and for all those who have really put their lives on the line and their families as well to serve the country. We are deeply appreciative of what you do, what you've done and what you will continue to do for our country. Councilor Tomas Morgan. Yes. Thank you both for bringing this special resolution to us.
 I come from a family in the military. My grandfather in the Philippines fought with the Americans in past wars and uncles as well. My close cousins represent all members of all the military branches. And I know the sacrifice and the risk that our veterans face.
 have taken and the risks and the sacrifices that their families have taken as well. It is a deep honor to serve with you on council, Council Member Sheila Nitzkatsky, as a veteran and to be serving with you now as a civil servant for our city. With that, again, we would like to thank you. Mr. Hardy, would you please read Resolution 2256? Yes, ma'am.
 Bill 2256, a special resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, commemorating over five years of smoke-free establishments through the passage of South Bend's Clean Air Ordinance. Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Thank you, President McBride. My name is Rachel Tomas Morgan, 114 Chapin Street, South Bend. My name is Karen White, 1912 Melvern Way, South Bend, Indiana.
 I just want to, it gives me great pleasure to present this resolution to all of you members of Council. This is in collaboration with the Mayor's Office and is being submitted in conjunction with Mayor Mueller's celebrating the five-year anniversary of the Clean Air Ordinance on November 17, 2022, during the Great American Smokeout.
 There are a number of people to call out tonight and will do so, but I want to start first by thanking Ms. LaToria Green and Ms. Santee Pontius of St. Joe Health Systems. Did I pronounce that correctly? Of St. Joe Health Systems, as well as community organizations Smoke Free St. Joe Health.
 for keeping this at top of mind and not allowing us to let this occasion pass, but to to pause and reflect on on the great accomplishment that this city has made in the passing of this ordinance. So if we remember our our short history, in March of of 2016, South Bend's Common Council passed a bill entitled,
 smoke-free air regulations for workplaces and public places. This was a bill that was championed by Mr. Gavin Furlick and other sponsors included Joe Brodin, Randy Kelly and John Vordy. This is not
 and an easy road, my understanding is that Mr. Gavin Furlick had introduced this bill three times total before it passed in the Common Council. And and so I, I say that as knowing that, oh, you know, courageous action
 is represented in these leaders. And sometimes it takes several times to get things done. This ordinance was a matter of public health. It was supported by health and scientific research on the benefits of a smoke-free environment for communities, especially communities of color and mothers and children.
 And so we thank these leaders and our community benefits greatly from their vision. With that, I want to turn it over to Council Member Karen McBride, who –
 Karen White, who of course supported this ordinance. No problem. I would like to add my words. I had the pleasure of working with former council member Gavin Furlick, and indeed it was not an easy task, but we came together as a council. I can't tell you how many meetings we had and this chamber was packed,
 and we had an overflow, and that's just illustrated the support, but also the concerns as we were able to come together as a council to pass the resolution. But also the reason why we're standing here this evening is to celebrate over five years in which this ordinance has been implemented, and we're seeing great results as well. So Councilwoman Tormas-Morgan, do you want any of the –
 Individuals to come and stand behind us or what? How would you like to do that? If you'd like to stand behind us and then we'll read the proclamation and be invited to share comments. Okay. A special resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana commemorating over five years of smoke-free establishments through the passage of South Bend's Clean Air Ordinance.
 Whereas on March 29, 2016, the South Bend Common Council voted in favor of passing what became known as the Clean Air Ordinance to protect all workers in the City of South Bend from second and third hand smoke.
 And whereas on January the 1st, 2017, the City of South Bend's Clean Air Ordinance was implemented, thereby providing protection to all workers in the City of South Bend. With 69 bars, taverns, membership clubs, tobacco retailers becoming smoke-free establishments.
 And again, that was not an easy task. And whereas the City of South Bend's Clean Air Ordinance is the strongest smoke-free air ordinance in the state of Indiana and has become a model for other communities across the state and country and gives optimism for the expansion for St. Joseph County.
 And whereas Smoke-Free St. Joe Coalition is a local tobacco control coalition of community-based organizations and supporters, partner with the South Bend Common Council to protect all workers so no worker within the city of South Bend would have to trade their health for a paycheck. And...
 And whereas the University of Missouri School of Medicine found a 92% reduction in particulate matter pollution in South Bend, Indiana air quality monitoring study since the Clean Air Ordinance went into effect.
 And whereas November 17, 2022 is the Great American Smokeout, a National Awareness Day hosted by the American Cancer Society to challenge smokers to 24 hours smoke-free to jumpstart their journey toward quitting. And whereas also on November 17, 2022, the City will celebrate the five-year anniversary of the Clean Air Ordinance,
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, as follows. Section 1. The South Bend Common Council joins Mayor Mueller in recognizing November 17, 2022, as a Great American Smokeout.
 Section 2, the South Bend Common Council also joins Mayor Mueller in recognizing South Bend's contributions to the cessation of smoking by celebrating November 17, 2022, as the five-year anniversary of the Clean Air Ordinance. Section 3, the South Bend Common Council also joins Mayor Mueller in asking residents to encourage the cessation of smoking and recognizing the benefits of being tobacco-free.
 Section 5, this resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption by the Common Council and approval by the Mayor. Thank you so much. Now I will turn over to the public for comment. Please state your name and address for the record. Latoria Green, 1028 Ebeling Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46615.
 I am Latoria Green, Policy Coordinator with Smoke Free St. Joe Coalition. On behalf of Smoke Free St. Joe Coalition, we applaud the South Bend Common Council for its support for the Clean Air Ordinance in 2016 and putting the community's health first.
 We are proud to say that the South Bend Clean Air Ordinance is currently the strongest smoke-free air policy in the state of Indiana and throughout the country. Since implementation in January 2017, we have experienced growth in our community and have become more attractive to businesses and families.
 Smofree St. Joe Coalition would like to thank the great work of former City of South Bend Common Council member and champion Gavin Furlick for his tireless work on the campaign. Gavin led the efforts with the South Bend Common Council. He was and is a great supporter of the cause and provided great leadership.
 Smoky St. Joe Coalition would also like to thank Clean Air Ordinance authors and former South Bend Common Council members, Gavin Furlick, of course, Joe Brodin, Redding Kelly, and John Bordy, and supporters of the ordinance, Karen White and Tim Scott.
 Smokefree St. Joe would also like to thank all coalition partners and supporters, those who are able to join us in person as well as online, including organizations St. Joseph Health System, American Lung Association, American Heart Association, Americans for Non-Smokers Rights,
 American Cancer Society, Cancer Action Network, Indiana State Department of Health, Tobacco Prevention Cessation Commission, Carl Nichols, and the late Anthony Tony Flora, longtime organized labor advocate and community activist. Smoke-Free St. Joe Coalition has always supported smoke-free workplaces for all workers within our community, including within St. Joseph County. No worker should have to trade their health for a paycheck, no matter where it is that they work.
 We would like to thank, or at least we would like to invite you, as mentioned before, we will be celebrating on November 17th. So we do invite you all to attend that celebration on Thursday, November 17th from 6 to 7, 30 p.m. at Four Winds Casino. We'll be in the buffet room, the private room, as well as celebrating the Great American Smokeout.
 We would like to thank the South Bend Common Council as well as Mayor Mueller for this special recognition for celebrating five years of the City of South Bend Clean Air Ordinance. We truly appreciate it and thank you. Thank you. Please state your name and address. Sandy Pontius, 30909 Stardust Court, Granger, Indiana, 46530. Thank you.
 I just want to say also personally, thank you very much. I'm very gratified that this was able to pass. Corwin's Casino is smoke-free. One of the reasons that we're holding it there. So if you didn't know that, now you do. It is smoke-free. It is a healthy workplace, healthy for everyone. I have some comments that I'd like to read from Gavin, who was unable to be here.
 Thank you to the South Bend Common Council for the special resolution recognizing the Smoke Free St. Joe Coalition and all of its efforts to make our community a healthier and safer place to live and work.
 I apologize that I'm not able to attend in person as I have a work event this evening, but I did want to say thank you to the Smoke-Free St. Joe Coalition for all of its great work in our community. In addition, I want to thank the Common Council for their support and all members for their service to our great city. Thank you again, Gavin Furlick. Thank you. Hi, good evening. Just a shout out to Gavin. It was the first time in my life.
 tenure as a lifelong resident of South Bend. Name and address, Ms. Brody. Oh, I'm sorry. Protocol, protocol. Thank you. Joe M. Broden, 201 West North Shore Drive, South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Council Member. But it was a tough, it was a tough slog, getting this across the finish line. And there were a couple of creative things
 that was embedded into the legislation and into the process, in fact. And I do want to lift those up because I think they're instructive as we try to advance the needle on so many mental and physical health issues in our community. And that was the opportunity for those who would be most impacted by this legislation.
 we gave time for the legislation to kick in. I think, I believe, Karen, if you correct me, it was a six-month period. But that allowed those who ran restaurants, ran clubs, bars in our community, it gave them the opportunity to make the changes, to anticipate the changes, figure out what the changes were, and to be able to, you know, ramp into this over time. So it wasn't an unnecessary, you know, a heavy, well...
 It appeared to be a heavy burden for all of them, but working with them, listening to them, it was a way that we were able to mitigate and, as I said, get this across the finish line and for it to be a huge win for our community. And I'd also like to say, too, that within the legislation itself, we also, with the support of the administration –
 put in a component of research and collection of data. So how, not just theoretical, how would this possibly affect both the patrons and the business owners, but indeed, how would it impact them? And I'm delighted, you know, we knew pretty early on that it was a success from a health standpoint. We had tools in our toolkit as a city that we offered businesses that,
 to help afford the changes that were to come and to help them navigate what changes were needed and when. But one of the things then, of course, when you are early on something as important as this as a legislative body, you have that opportunity to set an example for the rest of the state and change.
 Gavin and John Vordy and the other council members who supported this seized that opportunity and ran with it, and I'm happy to hear that the results in terms of impact have been strong. But just closing my comments, I think mental health and physical health
 in your roles as council members and our role as health advocates in the community. And a shout out to Tony Flora, who really, really helped advance this. And there were a number of other partners. But supporting mental health, supporting physical health and the well-being of our community, that's always a matter of good business.
 This just wasn't a health initiative. We knew in the end that our business community would thrive, and it was also a good business decision. So thank you in closing for your role that you all play when you bring resolutions or substantive legislation that does impact our community decisions.
 uh, so positively. Thank you for, for jumping into that role and leading. I appreciate it. And, um, I also want to just take this opportunity to thank the advocates, uh, and, and because their work as, as we know is, is so often, um, it's, it goes day to day and it's, it, it's, um, your results,
 aren't right there in front of you. It it too is often a a long slog, a marathon, but the race is worth worth running and I thank you on behalf of of my family and my neighbors for the hard work that that you have done, and then the opportunity that's before us to have a victory. If you've got a habit, smoking, drinking,
 addictions of any sort, now is the opportunity. Today's the day to make the change. So thank you very much. Thank you, Joe. Thank you so much. Thank you all for helping us to celebrate this accomplishment in our community. President McBride, can we have another photo? Sure. At this time, we have reports from the community survey. So thank you so much. Please state your name and address.
 Hi, I'm David Finley. I'm the Director of Business Analytics for the City of South Bend. I'm living at 1093 Woodward Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. And could I borrow maybe someone from the clerk staff to help me facilitate some of the, would I be able to share my screen into the Teams meeting and we could present the information that way? Or I can use the slide deck. I'm just curious.
 All right, so we're going to pull it up. Just following along in the slide deck, we have about 16 slides and this is shared on the teams meeting as well. I imagine it'll take about 10 minutes or so. So the kind of walkthrough for the content tonight and sharing our community survey results is just talking about the background of the community survey. So why it matters? What is it? Why is it important? Then we'll be going through some of the data, so specifically the methodology,
 who took the survey and what did we learn. So what were some of the key insights or what do we know that residents are prioritizing aspects of city operations over others? And then finally, civic engagement and taking action. Some of the tools and data available on the city's website and then how we'll be taking this data internally and transforming it into action in terms of specific initiatives coming out of the city administration.
 So to start with the background, just as a FYI, these are results that you can see online. It's just southbendin.gov backslash community survey. And this image on the right here is an image of the web of the web page. And so this will be what I'm walking through. But all of this information is accessible at this web page. So why is this important? Why does it matter? So as the city grows, it's important to strategically plan for the future.
 So the community survey gathers responses from residents that are specifically focused on aspects of city operations or of topics of interest to the administration on which we want to understand how residents think about something, how they think we're doing in terms of our overall performance, or how they think we can improve or emphasize areas over others.
 So this is important just for evaluating how we're doing as a city in offering services and where we can make strategic investments. Another aspect of why this matters is about statistically significant data. So we get enough responses, and this is a survey that's administered by a third party, or we get a statistically significant random sample of residents.
 In terms of what this the value brings to the city, it has 175 page report that's available online and which I'll just not be going through tonight, but you're able to take a look at it. I'll take be going through some highlights tonight. It does give us an important satisfaction rating. So specifically,
 What are the top three things the city should be prioritizing when it comes to city operations over others? And then finally, a public dashboard that is a user-friendly way to engage with the data and allowing residents and academic researchers to download and analyze the data on their own.
 To jump into that data, from a methodology standpoint, this was a seven-page survey that was mailed to a random sample of households in the city. This was conducted over the summer of 2022, so responses were collected from June to August.
 A total of 649 households completed the survey, which gives us a 95% level of confidence with a margin of error of about 4%. So something to take within a grain of salt is that with this response code, though it is statistically valid, it does represent a margin of error. And residents who received this survey were given the option of returning the survey by mail or completing it online.
 In terms of who took the survey, so as I mentioned, 649 residents took the survey, but the third party that administers the survey takes census data on the city to make sure we're having an even distribution of data.
 city demographics in terms of a representative sample size. So what you see in this page here is, for example, on the right is a survey responded map so that every dot represents a person who took the survey or a household that took the survey. So you're able to see it represented throughout the city. About a little over 100 of each council district of residents from each council district were represented in the survey as well.
 And then you also able to see things like the ethnicity breakdown or the ownership versus rental breakdown on this slide, just to give you a sense of how this was a representative sample size.
 In terms of the high level takeaways, these are the recommended priorities for the next two years for city leadership. So specifically what this means is city households that took the survey were asked of these issues or of these aspects of city operations. What would you like to emphasize? Or what would you like to see city leaders emphasize over the next two years? And so what you see in this high
 In the top part of this matrix here is those that were ranked with very high priority where residents had either ranked it very high from an important standpoint or had a level of dissatisfaction
 the performance of city operations in comparison to some of the other topics, and so it prioritized that specific topic. So what we see here is overall maintenance of city streets, sidewalks, and infrastructure at the top. And then we see overall enforcement of local codes and ordinances, how well the city is planning growth as the second and third, and then the overall quality of local police protection in the fourth.
 What I will say is this is the third time we've conducted this survey, so we've conducted it in 2018 and 2020. These top priorities have stayed relatively consistent over the years in terms of what we're hearing from residents. What is newer this year is the prioritization of overall enforcement of local codes and ordinances. So that is a newer thing getting into our very hot pilot.
 high priority top of the bracket, whereas the quality of local police protection and the overall maintenance of City Street has consistently been a top priority from residents. In terms of what we're going to do with this data and how we're going to be taking action,
 Earlier this year I shared how the city approaches public transparency in South Bend and how we approach using data to translate it into actions and and and co designing tools and solutions with residents and so I'm just going to use this slide as a way to talk through what we've done with the community survey. So the first aspect of this process is data collection, and so that's what we did over the summer, right? Was collect survey responses from residents and households throughout the city.
 The community survey data is now on the city's open data portal. So you're able to go to the city's open data portal and download the raw data for yourself if you wanted to perform your own analysis on the survey results.
 But then this next standpoint is translating this into reports and dashboards. So specifically thinking about how can we make this information accessible for decision making or how can we use it to drive action planning from a business planning standpoint. And so that's something I'll be showing later in this slide deck. And then we'll be moving to the resident engagement and co-creation standpoint where basically
 I'll talk a little bit in a later slide where we're how we're using this information and translating into specific action items for departments.
 In terms of how does the dashboard visualize some of this data, I'll walk through it a little bit here, but the community survey is a lot of data. As I mentioned, it's a 175-page report. But what it does give us is how satisfied residents are with certain aspects of city operations, but it also shows us how we're performing compared to national and regional benchmarks.
 And so what this first section of the dashboard shows is for each and every question in the survey, it shows how many people responded to the question, whether they were satisfied or dissatisfied with the response. So that big number on the left is 628, that's focused on how many residents responded.
 and then this chart on the right is showing resident satisfaction over time so it's showing if we have trendline data available for this particular question we're able to see has south bend improved or not improved over time in resident satisfaction and then we're also able to see how we perform in comparison to regional national benchmarks and that's particularly important because um
 There can be national trends or perceptions at work that's impacting how people think things are going in South Bend. And so it's important to kind of understand where the trend lines are moving so we can understand what's unique to South Bend versus what's a broader national or regional trend.
 Another thing I do want to point out is we do have a map view of this data, so that's what this next page is showing. It's showing just the exact same data, but it's breaking it down from a geographic perspective. So this chart on the bottom is focusing resident satisfaction by council district, so you're able to see where there's geographic
 differences of opinion. And then you're also able to see this heat map on the right with red representing more dissatisfied responses and this bluish purple representing more satisfied responses. So you can see just from a snapshot perspective how resident perception changes over the city.
 And so just to demonstrate this for a moment, I just have the web page open up here. So this is southendin.gov backslash community survey. You see the survey report right here. You can see results from past years. You can download the data. And then this is the resident insights dashboard where we have a picture of the city and you're able to explore the data at a high level or dive deep into the data map. So if I just bring this.
 big for a second, I can demonstrate how you can shift around in different questions you can search. So if you really were only interested in streets, for example, I can search for streets and now all of the questions that I can choose and select from are just focused on streets. So that's just a way of how you can see this and use this tool to kind of dive deep into the specific topics you are more interested in.
 And then in terms of taking action and the interest of time, we're going to be analyzing this data from a geographic perspective to see what are the top priority projects that we can install into our SB SAT program, which is our city's performance management program. So this image on the right here is within this SB SAT program we have projects.
 multiple focus areas that the mayor sets for the administration, and we identify specific strategic objectives and initiatives to take on for the year. And this is a memo that is distributed to department heads typically in February of each year. And so we'll be analyzing this data to inform the specific objectives and initiatives that go into this roadmap for city department heads to respond to and report to throughout the year during our SB stat program.
 I'll also just add there is other ways for residents to give feedback on this data and dashboard. So, for example, on the data, they can report or concern or issues to 311. And then they also can we have forms attached to all of these tools so that they can offer specific feedback of how we can improve or specifically any questions that they may have on the data so that city staff can respond. And that is the entirety of my update.
 Thank you so much for your presentation. I really appreciate it. At this time, I will turn to my colleagues and see if they have any questions, and I will also open it up for comments at this time. Just ask that you can email us that PowerPoint. Thank you. Yes. Anyone else? Councilor Tomas-Moder.
 I just want to thank you for taking the time to be with us this evening and to share this presentation. I know it's something we've been doing on an annual basis when the survey goes out. I think what's reassuring to us, there was some concern that this was coming late in the budget season and that this information wasn't informing the budget when, in fact, what we were realizing is that the
 the what the survey shows it is that it very much aligned with what we are hearing from residents during the budget season. Yes, the survey results were distributed and kind of shared broadly in September. And yes, but yes, we weren't able to get this update here until post budget approval. Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate the presentation. Look forward to hearing some of the results. At this time I want to turn
 and entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. It has been moved and seconded. Would you please call the roll? Yes. We definitely need a roll call. No one is participating online. Thank you so much. I also would like to, before I, no, let me move that motion. All those in favor?
 Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. And I would just like to announce for the virtual audience or anyone in public, if you are here for bill number 52-22, it has been tabled until 12-12, until December the 12th. So if you are here or in the virtual audience, bill number 52-22 has been tabled. Thank you so much. With that, we'll move to the committee of the whole.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that were given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will also be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed.
 so we're going to move with the first bill which is bill 32-22 if mr harding if you could please i wanted to say clerk jones i'm sorry mr harding could you please give the um the bill of second reading yes ma'am bill 3222 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council
 of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 316 north olive street councilmatic district number two in the city of south bend indiana thank you is there a committee report yes bill 3222 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the committee of the whole with the favorable recommendation
 Thank you. And I see we have the petitioner present. I ask you to state your name and address, please. Rachel Boyles, zoning specialist, office on the 14th floor of this building. So we have the petition of 316 North Olive Street in front of us today. Request of action is for a special exception use to allow for automotive repair.
 The original intent of this site was for a gas station. Throughout the years, it had changed through different various automotive uses, and it remained vacant for a long time.
 So the reactivation of the vacant building to its original use is consistent with the character of the district and surrounding areas. There were two variances approved at the Board of Zoning Appeals, one for the transparency of the building and one where the building is currently located.
 sorry, nope, the parking. It's the parking in the front. And then they installed code-compliant landscaping to buffer the residential uses to the automotive use. This comes to you with a favorable recommendation from the Board of Zoning Appeals, with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Ms. Boyles. As the presenter or the petitioner here, would you like to come up and address the council? If you could please give your name and address for the record.
 Jetsaw Rodriguez, 919 East Duval Avenue, South Bend. Amancio Rodriguez, 919 East Duval Avenue, South Bend. Thank you. You may proceed if you would like to make some comments in reference to the business and what you would like to accomplish. We hope to accomplish a successful business. We've done everything that we've been asked to do to the building and we're
 we made sure the lot was clean and uh it was ready to use for a business and i believe during the committee meetings um you said your your father was unemployed and decided to take this business on his employment invested all his money into the building uh we fixed it up and uh he lost he lost uh his job due to covid and uh when uh
 After that, we just opened up and took on some jobs and stuff started picking up and everything seems like it's going well now. But yeah, it took a lot of time and a lot of hard work to get there.
 get it to where it is now. We got busy right now. A lot of job coming. Could you speak into the microphone, please? We stay busy now. A lot of job coming my place and we're happy with that. I try to follow all the rules, make everything correct and I think it's fine. The neighbors are fine with that because they look better right now.
 That's what I can say. OK, well thank you so much. We appreciate your comments. I'm going to come back to the Council members here. Do you have any questions for the petitioners? Anyone? OK, I don't see any questions from any of the Council members, so we're going to go to the public hearing portion. So if you'd like to go ahead and take a seat. Thank you so much for coming up and speaking with us. So is there anyone here from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 32-22?
 and i don't see anyone in the teams either so we're going to see if there's anyone wishing to speak in opposition to bill 32-22 and i don't see anyone in teams or present in the chamber so at this point we're going to go ahead and close the hearing on the public hearing on bill 32-22 come back to the council members is there any statements you wish to make regarding the bill
 I make a motion to send Bill 32-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion to move Bill 32-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Could you please call the roll? Victoria? I'm sorry. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Heyman? Aye. Vice President Nieskoski? Aye. President McBride? Aye.
 Thank you, Victoria. Bill 32-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. So we're going to move on to Bill number 52-22. Mr. Harding, could you? Oh, yes, I'm sorry. That is tabled. So 52-22 was tabled until December the 12th. So moving on to Bill 62-22, I need a motion to accept the substitute bill. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Do we have to do a voice roll on this?
 All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Thank you. Mr. Harding, could you please give Substitute Bill 62-22 a second reading? Yes, ma'am. Bill 62-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Alley Vacation, North South Alley, starting from Hill Street to First East West Alley between Corby and Calorama, Calorama, pardon me,
 Thank you. And I do have a committee report. This was heard in Public Works and Property Vacation, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. So do we have a presenter? If you could please state your name and address for the record. Good evening. My name is Daniel Meshula, 305 P. Ashway Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46617.
 Thank you, President McBride and members of the Council for entertaining this petition. This is a short alleyway, about 165 feet long between two residential properties. My family and I recently moved this summer to South Bend because of work for me, and we decided to build at 824-820 North Hill Street.
 At that time, the alleyway is unused. It's unimproved. There's a curb for an entrance to the alleyway, but there is in effect no alleyway there right now. And so in speaking with the next door neighbor at 816 North Hill, Becky Adams, who's also here,
 We decided that we would like to vacate the alley if possible and share it for green or yard space between the two houses. There's a north-south alleyway behind the house presently by which all of the garages are accessed. So that's the background to it. Okay. Well, thank you so much. Do you have anything further you'd like to add? I don't think so. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Thank you so much.
 I'm going to come back to the council. Is there any council members here that have a question? All righty, then we're going to go ahead and open it up for the public hearing portion. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. So at this time, we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone here from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 62-22?
 Seeing none here or in teams, we're going to see if there's anyone wishing to speak in opposition to Substitute Bill 62-22. Seeing none in the chamber or on teams, we're going to go ahead and close the public hearing portion on Substitute Bill 62-22. I make a motion to send Substitute Bill 62-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 I second. Could I make a point? I'm not sure what the proper language is, but we had agreed to add the yes. The partial numbers that tax key numbers within that section. Should that be mentioned in the motion? Yes, and I do have those partial numbers to be added into that. So would you like to make that motion contingent upon that addition? Thank you.
 okay so there's been a motion to accept the substitute bill 6222 contingent on the partial numbers being added uh where the address is inserted at in the ordinance and it has been seconded could you please call the role council member warner aye council member wax council member white aye council member tomas morgan aye council member hayman aye vice president niskatsky aye president mcbride aye
 Thank you. Substitute Bill 6222 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Okay, so we're going to move on to Bill number 6722.
 Mr. Harding, could you please give Bill 67-22 a second reading? Yes. Bill 67-22, Public Hearing on Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the City of South Bend, Indiana, to fund its taxable economic development revenue note, Series 2022, South Bend Chocolate Destination Project, and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto.
 Thank you so much. I see Mr. Bauer is here. If you can state your name and address, please. Good evening, Council Members. Caleb Bauer, Executive Director of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Thank you for your time this evening. Before you is Bill 6722, which is an ordinance authorizing an Economic Development Revenue Note Series 2022. And I'll briefly give an overview of the project, then walk through the Economic Development Revenue Note.
 So, looking at the site overview, I apologize, I do have a typo here. It's on the southwest corner of the intersection of US-31 and US-20. Just to give a little bit of a frame of reference, that intersection, if you're counting the north-south traffic on 31 and the east-west traffic on 20, averages around 38,000 vehicles per day, and it's a 79-acre parcel, which I've denoted here in yellow.
 And what we're proposing here, what we're proposing that council support is a project you're already somewhat familiar with, which is the South Bend Chocolate Company's factory facility and the new Indiana Dinosaur Museum. And here just showing you a few of the pieces as a part of this site, which would include developable hotel sites,
 the dinosaur museum, the chocolate factories, production facilities, and a chocolate museum, as well as South Bend Farms, a retail storefront, and a restaurant.
 And so the total project scope, looking at private investment, the commitment as a part of this agreement would be a $15.4 million private investment, which would unlock the 18,000 square foot Indiana Dinosaur Museum, which is operated as a nonprofit, 1,800 square foot chocolate museum, a shared atrium, the chocolate companies, production facilities, and then, as I mentioned, the restaurant and retail facilities.
 Facilities and total new jobs estimated at 144 with retention of 54 jobs. I will note the 144 jobs is not a condition of of the loan agreement, but the original 74 job commitment as part of the original development agreement still stands and that job total would be reported out prior to any
 And so to walk you through the site here, I'll show you a conceptual drawing and then can show you the actual site plan. There's a couple small changes, but by and large of the same format. So on the north end of the site, the smaller two buildings there, those are the retail and restaurant element buildings.
 To the south, point A is the Chocolate Company's factory, which includes the production space and the museum, Chocolate Museum. And then on the east, point B, the Indiana Dinosaur Museum, which would feature a collection of more than 1,000 fossils that's been assembled over a number of decades by Mr. Mark Tarner.
 And here it is on the actual site plan. Only change here is some of the outbuildings have been taken out, and then you can see parking denoted in between all of those buildings.
 And so what we're requesting from Council is your authorization of a $2.7 million loan agreement. The loan would be funded through tax increment financing funds that have already been appropriated by the Redevelopment Commission. And the loan includes a forgiveness clause if the developer meets the commitments of that private investment and a museum opening by June 30th of 2024. Okay.
 And it's structured under the Indiana Code EDC statute and already received necessary approvals from the Redevelopment Commission and the Economic Development Commission. And just to give you a highlight of what this site could mean and what kind of visitors we could anticipate, I think...
 Looking at the South Bend Chocolate Company's existing tourism numbers, they do have a tour available at the factory, and that averages around 22,000 visitors annually. So using that, they projected and anticipate more than 100,000 visitors at the combined dinosaur museum and chocolate factory. And looking at a couple dinosaur museums around the country,
 The Eccles Dinosaur Museum in Ogden, Utah, which is north of Salt Lake City, sees annual attendance of 175,000 visitors. And Rocky Mountain Dinosaur Resource Center in Woodland Park, Colorado, sees annual attendance of 77,000 per year.
 And you can see here I've broken down the population within 75 miles. So for Ogden, Utah, it's 2.5 million. For the Rocky Mountain Dinosaur Resource Center, it's 3.9 million. And for South Bend, it's 4.2 million. If you remove Chicago residents or any Illinois residents, it's about 2 million.
 And then just kind of briefly touching on future phases at the site, we are currently in the process of exploring a broader concept of trail systems in the area and expansion of existing green spaces, including lighted bog. That requires coordination as a lot of those areas are outside of the city limits. So we are working in partnership with our county partners with St Joseph County and other funding bodies.
 And as far as at the South Bend Chocolate Company site, there has been preliminary interest from hotel developers in the site. And we believe strongly that the Indiana Dinosaur Museum is key to unlocking the broader development potential in that area and would ask for your support. Mr. Mark Turner is here to speak about the project, and then I would be happy to answer any questions you have as well. Okay. Thank you so much, Mr. Bauer.
 Mr. Turner, if you want to state your name and address for the record, please. Mark Turner, 1502 East LaSalle Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. You know, I want to thank you for inviting me tonight and hearing this story. As we spoke earlier today, I was thinking how this came about, and I really wanted to start to find a home for my factory. And what I did is build kind of a year-round all-weather attraction facility.
 And I think Caleb's done a tremendous job outlining that for you, so I don't have much to add. I do – today we were talking, and Karen mentioned she went down to Indianapolis with her kids. And I didn't say much about it, but the city of Indianapolis wanted to attract my company in a dinosaur I found with skin on it in 2016. Right.
 And we turned that opportunity down. And I thought, well, gosh, if they want to move my entire factory down and the dinosaurs that I find are such an attraction, maybe I should do that in South Bend, Indiana.
 And so that was the kernel of the idea. And with the city's help, we acquired this property. And we've made it through a lot of troubles. COVID was difficult. And the projects approximately doubled in size. It started out with about $8 million. Now it's close to $15 million. But with everybody's help, I think we can make it. And if you have any questions, please, I'll answer them. Okay. Thank you so much for your comments.
 um we're going to come back here to the council members is there any questions from council members do you have a question no i just want to add that this came to um community investment committee this afternoon and comes to the council with a favorable recommendation thank you councilwoman so much for that okay seeing no questions from council members we're going to go ahead and move to the public hearing portion
 So is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 67-22? Good evening. I'm Mark McDonald. I live at 17180 Wheat Ridge Court in Granger, Indiana, and also own the oldest commercial building in downtown at 115 West Colfax Avenue, LaSalle Grill Building. Mark, I wanted to come and speak in favor of this. Mark is a fellow entrepreneur, though.
 I have become an entrepreneur reaching the age of 72 years old. I still have the passion. I still appreciate what entrepreneurs bring to the economy of our city. I'm a big backer of South Bend. I'm not a native. I grew up in Michigan City and ended up here.
 by choice and opportunity, and I still think it's a great place. I just wanted to read a brief thing that I posted on Facebook, and I will say if you have not seen this project, which most of our population hasn't, and many people who are in places that could make a determination of whether this is a viable project or not, have not seen it, and once you do, you will see really a dream
 of a person coming to life. But let me read this. My good friend Mark Turner, founder of the South Bend Chocolate Company, the South Bend Chocolate Cafes, the public houses, including Howard Park and soon to be Buder Park, much to my chagrin a bit at our competitor city, our sister city, Mishawaka, but good for him.
 And his newest venture in the far northwest side of South Bend, the Chocolate, South Bend Chocolate Factory and Indiana Dinosaur Museum, is a man of true grit, determination, and vision. Mark began this project in 2018. When COVID hit in 2020, some funding that had been in place dried up, but Mark kept plugging away slowly but surely, finding other sources of capital, including his own money.
 Most impressively, he has put in countless hours of manual toil, plus the blood and sweat it takes to bring something of this scope out of the ground and into reality. So many local folks that I've talked to seem to have given this project up for dead, but after numerous visits to the property, I can assure you that is not the case. The project will encompass the factory, two museum overlooks,
 which are located on two of the highest points in the Laurentian divide, that continental divide that not many people seem to know about, but the reason for which the St. Joe River runs one way and the Kankakee River runs the other way. It is a...
 misunderstood and overlooked and underlooked type of feature we have and runs right through South Bend. There are not many continental divides in the United States. We live right in the middle of one of them. He also is building hiking trails, which become cross-country ski trails in the winter, a bison enclosure. I kind of want to be that person like in Jurassic Park that is in charge of the bison and make sure they don't get away.
 or hurt anybody, a micro farm, a cherry grove, a small vineyard, and of course, the public house and farm market. Mark envisions this project. He was very modest, or Caleb was, to 100,000 people. This is less than two miles from a toll road interchange, which as president of the South Bend
 or excuse me, the Studebaker National Museum back in the 90s, we did a study on locating the museum out there. In 1996, there were 34 million cars that traversed that interchange every year. I can only imagine that in the convening years, there are many more millions that do that. It has a potential great draw, I believe, would be up in the 400,000 visitors a year.
 This would add a tremendous boost to our area's tourism offerings. It also is budgeted to do a contribution of almost $300 each day to the city's property tax base. If you'd like to see what's going on, I'd be happy to give you a tour, but nobody can give it better to show the passion and the vision than Mark Turner. He'll take you out in that beat-up H2 Hummer of his,
 to get the true essence of what this thing is and what it could be. Thank you for your time. Thank you so much for your comments. Council members, good evening. My name is Jeff Jarnocki, and I serve as the Executive Director of Visit South Bend Mishawaka as part of the South Bend Regional Chamber with an address of 101 North Michigan here in South Bend.
 St. Joseph County has the pleasure of welcoming more than 5.3 million visitors to our county each and every year, and those 5.3 million visitors spend more than 700 million. And while we wish all 5 million spent the night, not all do, but those that do spend about 1.7 nights with us.
 here in the county that results in the creation of more than 8,300 jobs each and every year. And not just for the tourists and the guests that come here, but for locals as well. Tourism is all about that experience and that experience is about differentiation. And this project is indeed different. It's unique, it's year-round, it's for the census, it's for
 for all ages and it's expected to bring in more than 100,000 people annually. By comparison, there's a facility in northwest Indiana off of I-65 in the agribusiness industry called Fair Oaks Farm. It started a number of years ago and now has blown into a destination in and of itself, welcoming more than 500,000 people each and every year, an additional 120,000 people that participate in the activities on site.
 creation of two additional hotels within that facility as well. So just incredible in terms of what that could be and what that means for that area, just as the potential is here for the Indiana Dinosaur Museum for us as well. And then for Mark, as an individual and as a business person, Mr. Tarnum,
 We certainly support him. We believe in him. We applaud him for not only his work here in South Bend and his creativity, his vision for this, but also applaud him for his work in presenting and representing South Bend in the form of chocolates all over the country. And so for those reasons, on behalf of the Chamber and Visit South Bend Mishawaka, he has our support and we ask for the Council's support this evening as well. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor?
 members of the council thank you for the opportunity to speak on behalf of this project my name is mark dobbs and i reside at 20880 diamond shores drive cassopolis michigan and as a matter of a little bit of history some may recognize the name i'm a former saint joseph county commissioner having served at one time with your husband in the saint joe county commission and spent a great deal of time with council member white who was one of the most effective council members during the time and i understand she is
 near retirement from that opportunity and disappointed to hear so. Following my time in St. Joseph County,
 When I still earned an honest living, I was the president and CEO of the Elkhart County Economic Development Corporation. During my time there, we oversaw two years of record growth, record projects in Elkhart County. I tell you that not to boast about myself, but to give you an idea of the bona fides that I'm bringing to the table when discussing an economic development project such as this.
 There are about, when I was active in the industry, there were about 2,500 organizations across the United States, similar to the, well, South Bend Regional Chamber and the EDC of Elkhart County. There were about 4,000 professionals out soliciting business opportunities on behalf of their communities.
 Now about 75% of all job growth in the community comes from retained jobs from local businesses that expand and stay in their community. But I kiddingly so called myself a vulture for years, as I would be contacting companies such as the South Bend chocolate to try to attract them to our region.
 I would imagine Mr. Tarner gets a call similar to that weekly because the president and CEOs of the companies in Elkhart County I used to speak with would often talk about they came to the point where they would no longer take calls from us because they received so many. There aren't that many new businesses of a large scale starting around the country anymore.
 We are in a prosperous time in our nation, but really for an economic development professional to attract new jobs to his community, he's probably coming and grabbing something like the South Bend chocolate and trying to bring them to their community. And I even heard Mr. Tarner reference Indianapolis's attempt to move them there, and he politely turned them down. This is a very impactful project.
 The South Bend chocolate has continued to be a part of the South Bend economy. As a matter of fact, Mr. Turner may be the one of South Bend's private sector largest supporters.
 When I traveled, when I was in economic development, I traveled about 50% of the time over a hundred thousand miles a year. And I would often text a picture of South Bend chocolates back to Mr. Tarner. Uh, they came from places like Sarasota, Florida. They came from places like Manitou Springs, Colorado, Dallas, Texas. These weren't rebranded to those communities names. They were boldly imprinted with the South Bend chocolate name on them. And the, the, uh,
 unrealized value of that advertising for the city of South Bend, it's hard to fathom and I can't put a number to it. But consistently when people would walk in a gift shop, an example in Sarasota, Florida, and see South Bend chocolate, you could not help but think of South Bend, Indiana. There are not many South Bends in the United States. And the biggest and the best of all of them is South Bend, Indiana. And South Bend chocolate continues to represent that around the country.
 I would be happy to entertain any questions regarding economic development, but I come to speak in full support of Mr. Tarner and his project. This is very impactful for South Bend, and it's a very unique funding mechanism. It's cutting edge. It complements both the mayor and his staff in coming up with something this great to move a project this solid forward. I thank you for the time to speak. Thank you so much for your comments.
 Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor of Bill 6722? Good evening. My name is Mario Palmisano. I reside at 13747 North Redbud Trail in Buchanan, Michigan. While I'm not a resident of South Bend, I have known Mr. Turner since the inception of the South Bend Chocolate Company back in 91. I was a sign painter and still am, and started out designing his company, uh,
 logos and everything to establish his company. Through the years, we've remained close business partners throughout many of his ventures and have become close friends too. And he has engulfed me with this project by his passion for it and by seeing what this could be for the community. We're all members of the Michiana community, South Bend, Buchanan, everywhere. And this project will have such an impact for the whole region.
 I have been to several dinosaur museums and other places of interest in Chicago, Indy, wherever. And the projects he's got in mind for this place is just astounding. You can't even put it into a paragraph to describe it. And we keep coming up with more and more ideas for further expansion of this project.
 This would be such a boom for the whole area and for the economy of South Bend, as well as it will be a gateway to all the established venues and destinations already in place in South Bend that will increase their attendance, too, by the advertising through his project, too. So I look forward to your support for this project overall for our whole community. And thank you.
 Thank you so much for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor? Hello, my name is Sean Peterson with offices at 1400 East Angela Blvd. I am an attorney with Ice Miller representing Mark Turner, also a consultant and do that kind of consulting across the country, particularly investments in low income areas. So I'm here today as a citizen, even though I have a relationship with with with the project.
 As I mentioned, 80% of my practice is focusing on encouraging investment in low-income communities. This area that's being invested in is a opportunity zone and is a low-income community as designated by the federal government. The census tract in the area there is a majority minority community, and I think Mark Turner often shies away from the fact that the majority of his workforce is female and or minority.
 We have had attracted impact from this project across the country. National investors looking at potentially doing more activity around the project. And the state of Indiana did award this project a destination grant, South Bend's first destination grant, as part of their tourism project.
 The unfortunate aspect of where we are today is we really could have been here two years ago, if not four or three years ago, but for COVID the project was ready to move forward. But because of those conditions, effectively it's had to restart. And through your action tonight, you will turn this into completion and unlock an economic generation tool that this city has not seen in light of the resources that it has.
 We did represent Fair Oaks Farms in the beginning of that project, which many thought would be 100,000 people. It's now over 500,000 with hotels coming, and that was a farm field that we put an interchange with.
 You have the interchange today at this location, but this property has sat vacant for years. And the reason why is you haven't had that vision, an entrepreneur with the city leadership, to put the infrastructure in and turn it into an attraction. So as you do that, think about what's going to happen in the future. When people come in to move to this community, they want to go back and tell their
 significant others, their kids, their family, what is there to do in South Bend? And you have the opportunity to have something that is unique to South Bend, a unique opportunity that can be sold and create the memories that allow people to come and come back both for grandkids, kids, employers, and others to attract talent. So this is not just a small opportunity, and it sort of is one of those opportunities that you have today.
 to change how your brand is for the across the country. He is already doing that. This investment will allow it to move forward. And I'm excited for the city of South Bend as someone who's from the city and from that area of town to really have this be an attraction for the city. So thank you so much for your time and support. Thank you for your comments. Is there anyone else wishing to speak in favor of the bill? Seeing none in the chamber.
 And I do not see anyone on Microsoft Teams. So we're going to move on to see if there is anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of the bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? Seeing one on line. If you could state your name and address for the record, please. My name is Allison Minesburg. I live at 2633 Arrowhead Drive in South Bend, Indiana, 46628.
 I live near this project and my parents have actually just relocated to very close to this project in the county.
 My son happens to be an 11-year-old who loves dinosaurs obsessively. So from that respect, I would love to have this here. And that was my son putting in his two cents, which he would like this dinosaur museum to be there. My concerns are with what some of the people speaking in favor stated about poaching projects from other communities using these types of funds, about...
 spending kind of public resources in what's already an opportunity zone and already a low income area um it is important to attract people to south bend and with an 11 year old i can tell you that it is sometimes hard to find things to do here but this project is not accessible by transportation um public transportation bicycle transportation pedestrian it um
 is along a very busy transportation corridor, which there's, I believe, a large trucking company across the U.S. 20 from this site. And obviously, there's a lot of truck activity coming on and off the ramps. And so, I do have concerns about the additional public investment that will be required for this private and nonprofit enterprise. And whether we have the funds to sustain the
 the investments in this without compromising basic services and other services such as, for instance, the swimming pools for our kids in the summer. Again, I think this is a great project. I just don't know how much more public investment on top of the Opportunity Zone, on top of the Ready Grant, on top of the infrastructure improvements that are going to have to go in will certainly be on the state or local or perhaps federal taxpayer dollars.
 and that is the extent of my concerns. Otherwise, I love bison and dinosaurs and, you know, more power to you. I just would love to not be financially supporting this when we have no swimming pool, we can't bike to a grocery store, and we have other basic needs that are just not being met in South Bend. Thank you so much for your comments. Would you like to answer back with a rebuttal in reference to any of the questions she's just posed, Mr. Bauer or Mr. Turner?
 well i i think um you know just one clarification that ready funds were not awarded that project regrettably we did support an application for ready funds for this project as far as the other items mentioned you know we certainly uh
 Would welcome conversations with the grocery store that's interested in locating itself, and it's something that our department knows is is a need. And, you know, we've we've thought creatively about how to incentivize grocery store development. I think, you know, one piece on that front that is very challenging is the margins that you see in the grocery business market.
 really means that incentives that are provided to attract them are really not what a grocery store is concerned about. It's not the capital investment in the facility. It's really the ongoing market that they're looking at. So just one piece.
 Additionally, walkability, bikeability is an important piece, and we will be working with the Indiana Department of Transportation to look at the intersection there outside of the Dinosaur Museum and if there could be justification for the addition of a stoplight. So we're working through that process. That takes some time with NDOT, but appreciate the comments. Thank you. Mr. Turner? Thank you.
 yeah I think those are all great uh comments uh but what what is amazing thing is the vision I started and Caleb and James hired a consultant and looked at the area and one of those things was the Continental Divide Trail that connects us with the lighting bog and maybe goes from Elvel to the casino
 And I think there's going to be a lot of that type of development in the area that was, this is going to spur that type of development on that this person wants and nothing else will. So thank you. Thank you so much. Is there anyone else present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 67-22? I see none in the chamber, nor do I see anyone else online. So at this point, we're going to...
 Close the public hearing on Bill 67-22. Council members, do you wish to make any statements regarding the bill? Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you. For the benefit of those who may be online for this meeting and were not at the committee meeting, and those that are in the chamber, I am an educator in our community, and
 In addition to the value of the tourism, I think this brings a an exceptional opportunity for South Bend schools and the other school communities to provide some hands on science lessons and opportunities for these children to have experiences that they
 necessarily be afforded if we did not bring this museum and the other components to this project to South Bend. And I'm always looking at ways that we can improve the education and the experiences of our children in the community. And so I'm very excited and looking very much forward to the opportunity for our kids to experience this. Thank you.
 Are there any other council members wishing to make a Rachel Thomas Morgan? Thank you, Chair. I said this earlier, but I want to say it again. This is one of the largest investments on the west side of town, along with Pure Green Farm. Both of them were really excited about knowing Mr. Turner. I was his former neighbor.
 Scott, you have so much skin in the game here and your reputation is at stake. I know that you're not going to allow this to fail. I'm excited about your project, incentivizing other development in that area and giving others confidence to invest in our city. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any other council members? Councilman Warner? Thank you. I said a lot this afternoon. Kind of keep it short this evening. You know, there is, this is a forgivable loan. So there is some accountability that's worked into into this transaction. And really this is an opportunity to really be transformative for the West side of South Bend. And yeah,
 there could be be some really exciting things uh come out of all of this and uh i think this is too good an opportunity for the city to not
 buy into and be a partnership in and really the opportunity to showcase South Bend in yet one more way. We try to do that in many different ways. And this is one more way to really build an area that becomes an attraction for the Midwest and the nation and lures more people here to South Bend and has more people talking about the city of South Bend on a daily basis. Thank you.
 Thank you, President McBride. Thank you. I just want to say thank you, Mr. Turner, for your continued community service. You have been a great partner and a great servant of our community for a very long time with your donations to other organizations. And it's also a pleasure when you're flying back home.
 for staying in Indianapolis and seeing that you are represented so well in our community and it's spread abroad. And I definitely support the expansion and welcome it. Thank you so much. Councilwoman White. I too would just like to share my words of thank you to Mr. Turner and all the work that you have done and continue to do for our community without a vision.
 You know, we tend not to move forward and I see you as a person who has not only been given visions, but you have continuously worked towards those visions. And so when we look through the city of South Bend, I look at all the things that you've done and you've touched, and I'm quite sure that I can't wait until the museum is up and running.
 All my grandchildren, they're all older. And so I'll take my nephews and nieces. But I wish you the very, very best. Thank you so much, Councilman Wax.
 Thank you. Like everybody, I'll keep it shorter because we've been around this a little bit earlier. But just to repeat from earlier this afternoon, I'm excited about this project. I think it has the potential to be an anchor on the west side of town and provide a whole lot of growth in that area.
 Um, in that area, and that's very exciting. It's there should be some caution and hesitancy with this level of investment. But this presents a partnership between between the city and South Bend Chocolate and Mr. Turner. So it does provide a level of accountability. I think I'm hopeful that that won't accountability won't be necessary. And I think Mr. Turner is quite invested in making sure that.
 this project proceeds as supposed to at all costs. So I'm excited about it and I wish you success. Thank you so much, Councilman Wax. And I'll just.
 echo my fellow council members. I'm excited about this project. Hearing about the connectivity when you talk about the Four Winds Casino, Pure Green Farms, those are the areas of town that I represent. So I'm excited to hear about that connectivity with that to this project. Being able to put in a trail system,
 Being able to help educate children over 1000 fossils that you have that could be an interactive learning experience for our children here in the community to me is wonderful. And my grandchildren as well just love dinosaurs. So I thank you so much for your vision of our community, for your continued investment in the community, and I look forward to supporting this.
 I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6722. I make a motion to send Bill 6722 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion, and it's been duly seconded. Victoria, could you please call the roll? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Nieskoski? Aye. President McBride? Aye.
 Thank you. Bill 67-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Okay, we are now going to move on. Let me see. Do we have another bill left? Yes. We'll be moving on to Bill 68-22. Mr. Harding, could you please give Bill 68-22 a second reading? Yes. Bill 68-22, Public Hearing on an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Amending Chapter 2, Article 19 of the South Bend Municipal Code to appoint the city controller as ordinance violations clerk and to make other associated municipal code amendments. Thank you so much. And there is a committee report that was heard in personal and finance this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the full council. I see Mr. Parker is here to give a presentation.
 Yes. Thank you, Council Member Nizgatsky. Dan Parker, City Controller. My office is on the 12th floor of this building. So as we discussed in committee this afternoon, this Bill 6822 proposes the movement of the Ordinance Violations Bureau from the city clerk's office to the administration. The mechanism to do that under state law is for council to name a member of the administration as the violations clerk.
 for the city. And so what this bill does is change the designation of the violations clerk from the city clerk to the city controller. It does not change any violation amounts. It does not change any fine amounts. It does not change any ordinance requirements. And it does not change the rights or responsibilities of the OBB office. It simply moves the location of that office from the city clerk's office to the administration.
 The reasons behind this change, we believe that this will make the processing and the processes of the OVB more effective and efficient. We believe it'll be better for residents. We are working towards more coordinated processes across the city that will make it easier for residents to pay the city in a variety of areas, things like utility bills, ordinance violations, business licensees.
 um even some of the things that we do in bpa around registrations for camps and activities and that kind of thing and this just fits right in with with those efforts that are already ongoing to better define the processes and streamline and coordinate and make it easier for residents
 We also think this will be better for the city. We'll have more structure, we'll have better defined processes in this organizational structure. We'll have more support for the individual that occupies the ordinance violation clerk position. And I'll take the opportunity there to mention that if this bill is approved, the administration would be excited about moving forward with offering the position in the administration to the individual who currently occupies that position in the clerk's office.
 and we would be excited to offer the opportunity to keep that position in the new structure. So we think that this is a better structure overall, better for residents, better for the city, and we'd ask for the support of council this evening, but I'm happy to answer any questions that council members might have. Okay, thank you so much, Mr. Parker. Before I go to the council members regarding this bill, I just wanna make a clarification. Earlier in the committee today meeting,
 I had asked about Article 20, Article 1, Section 20-23 that talked about the amnesty for tickets. And what I asked specifically was for firing...
 are discharging a firearm in the city limits. I want to make sure that that amnesty didn't apply to that, which we were informed it does not. But I mentioned that it was a $250 ticket. It is actually a $2,500 ticket. So I just wanted to make sure that that was communicated to the residents here
 that even though it is that we do have the amnesty, you still have to pay the ticket, just not the fines. But in the case of this, this is addressed in chapter 13. So do you wish to elaborate on that, Mr. Parker? No, I think you nailed it. So yes, the amnesty date is not applied to any ordinance violation that is not contained within article 20 of the municipal code. And so, because as you said, the discharging of a firearm in the city is not in that article,
 the amnesty day does not apply. Because that article is really focused on traffic and moving violations, what it comes down to in practice is the amnesty day applies mainly to parking tickets. And as you said, it is not as though the parking tickets are forgiven. What is forgiven during the amnesty day is any late fines or any other accrued penalties that are on top of the original base ticket amount. But the base ticket amount is what is paid on the amnesty day.
 Okay. Thank you so much for helping clarify that point. My apologies that I gave a wrong number. Councilman Warner set me on the right track there. So we're going to come back to the council members here. Does anybody have any questions for Mr. Parker? Councilwoman Hammond? Hi, Mr. Parker. There was a comment made during a committee that the current employee that is working this position is
 covers multiple tasks and I'm wondering how we would provide for the necessary staffing to make sure that those additional tasks are covered if we do move this position.
 Yes, so thank you, Council Member Hammond. So I'm not sure precisely what other tasks the current individual is doing on behalf of the clerk's office, because what we're focused on is the ordinance violation bureau duties.
 But I as a general answer to your question, I think what I would say is the the the city clerk would need to assess her scope of responsibilities with the. If this were approved with the Ordinance Violation Bureau not being a part of those those responsibilities, assess the remaining responsibilities and propose to counsel the appropriate staffing level in her mind to fulfill those responsibilities. And then it would be on Council to decide whether that request is is
 uh correct and and in line with what you expect um and approve or or deny it that doesn't that is often done through the the annual budgetary process um but it doesn't necessarily have to be um at this council uh in in the past year has approved several times mid-year budget appropriation requests and mid-year salary ordinance changes to address things that come up during the year and so that that is a path that we could move if that's something that needs to be done before the next year's budget cycle
 That's very helpful. Thank you. Are there any other council members that have a question in reference to Bill 6822? Okay. Seeing none, we're going to move on then to the public hearing portion of this hearing. Is there anyone here wishing to speak in favor of Bill 68-22? Seeing no one in the chamber or online, we're going to move to see if there is anyone wishing to speak in opposition to the bill.
 I see no one in the chamber or anyone on teams. Can you verify that for me, Victoria? There is no one on teams looking to speak in opposition of this bill. Thank you so much. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 6822 is now closed. I'm going to bring it back to the council members for statements regarding the bill. Does anybody wish to make a statement? If not, I'll entertain a motion regarding the bill. Move to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 It's been moved and duly seconded. Could you please call the roll? Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 Thank you. Bill 68-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I would now like to entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Anyone against? Motion carried. The regular session is back in session. We will now go to the bills on third reading. Is that where I'm at?
 the full council is now back in session this portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole will you please give bill 32-22 a third reading yes bill 32-22
 Public hearing on ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 316 North Olive Street, Councilmanic District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Councilor Nieskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 32-22? Yes, President McBride. The bill was heard in the Committee of the Whole and was given a favorable recommendation to the full council. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 32-22. Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? No, I have to call the roll. Call the roll, please.
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskoski. Aye. Council Member President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Thank you. Council Member Wax. Aye. Thank you. Bill 3222 has been adopted. Will you please give Substitute Bill 62-22 a third reading?
 3222 or 62 62 thank you that's 22 I'm sorry public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of South Bend Indiana alley vacation North South Alley starting from Hill Street to First East West Alley between Corby and Calorama thank you I would like to ask uh counselor Nisgatsky was their recommendation from the committee of the whole
 Yes, President McBride. 62-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the full Council. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 62-22. Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye.
 Bill 6222 has been adopted. Will you please give Bill 6722 a third reading? Bill 6722, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, authorizing the City of South Bend, Indiana, to fund its taxable economic development revenue note, Series 2022, South Bend Chocolate Destination Project.
 and approving and authorizing other actions in respect thereto. Thank you. Councilor Nisgatsky, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6722? Yes, President McBride. 67-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and was given a favorable recommendation to the full council. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6722. Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please.
 council member warner council member wax council member white council member tomas morgan aye council member hammond aye vice president niskatsky aye president mcbride aye thank you bill number 6722 has been adopted will you please give bill 6820 to a third reading
 Bill 6822, Public Hearing of an Ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 2, Article 19 of the South Bend Municipal Code to appoint the city controller as Ordinance Violations Clerk and to make other associated municipal code amendments.
 Thank you. Councilor Neskoski, was there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6822? Yes, President McBride. 68-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the whole council. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 6822. Passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye.
 Vice President Neiskatsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Bill 6822 has been adopted. Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where for the Common Council here bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for advisory review and recommendation is then given.
 During the public portion on each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name and address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes, with those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. Will you please give Resolution 2253 a reading? Yes, ma'am.
 bill 2253 a resolution of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving the issuance of scrap metal junk dealers recycling operation licenses for calendar year 2022 pursuant to sections 4-5-1 of the south bend municipal code thank you is there a presenter um sure and this came in front of personnel finance earlier this afternoon and comes with a favorable recommendation thank you um the
 clerk's office uh presented earlier today and i'll just repeat that um there was the two license applications and both have provided all the requirements in order to get the permit thank you are there any questions for uh counselor wax if not i will turn i will turn to the public to see if they have any comments regarding resolution 2253
 There's none in the audience. Do you see any in the virtual audience? There's no one from the virtual audience. Thank you. I will turn back to my colleagues. What's your pleasure for Resolution 22-53? I move for the adoption of Resolution 22-53. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neiskatsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Resolution 22-53 has been adopted. Please give 2257 a reading.
 Resolution Bill 2257, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 511 North Notre Dame Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46617, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for NDQOZBLLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 I believe that was community investment. Yes, sorry. Yes, this came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Is there a presenter? Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Thank you. President McBride, members of the Common Council, thank you for the opportunity opportunity to present and discuss this tax abatement petition that you are considering the the
 PARTICIPANT PETITIONER IS A FIRM NAMED PETITIONER IS A FIRM NAMED PETITIONER IS A FIRM NAMED NDQOZB NDQOZB NDQOZB INVESTING IN A BUILDING THAT IS INVESTING IN A BUILDING THAT IS INVESTING IN A BUILDING THAT IS DUE NORTH OF DUE NORTH OF DUE NORTH OF ST. JOE HIGH SCHOOL IT'S THE OLD ST. JOE HIGH SCHOOL IT'S THE OLD ST. JOE HIGH SCHOOL IT'S THE OLD ST. JOE MEDICAL CENTER BUILDING ST. JOE MEDICAL CENTER BUILDING ST. JOE MEDICAL CENTER BUILDING IT'S BEEN VACANT SINCE 2014 IT'S BEEN VACANT
 it's an eight-year multi-family residential real property tax abatement throughout the lifetime of the abatement period estimated taxes paid will be be over one million dollars and the abated taxes will be 1.1 million dollars to put that into perspective the building
 as it's vacant right now is only accruing $26,000 in taxes. So throughout that eight-year period, it would be just over $210,000 in taxes that it would accrue if this investment were not to move forward. Representatives from NDQOZB are here to answer questions and discuss the property. Griffin Johnson is the manager of the development partner of
 the llc and um they would be more than happy to answer any questions you might have thank you at this time i will turn to my colleagues to see if you have any uh questions at this time no question counselor hammond thank you um eric i had a question on something that was mentioned during committee you had identified that 80 percent of mhi
 was based on 43,000 to 50,000. Yes, so the thank you Council Member Hammond. Municipal code requires 20% of the units be made available to low and moderate income households. The city defines low and moderate income households as 80% AMI for the statistical area.
 If you were looking at, since these are studio apartments and one-bedroom apartments, you would expect one-person household or two-person household. 80% of AMI for a one-person household in this area is $43,700 annually, and for a two-person household, it's just under $50,000. So that would be the income thresholds that would apply in this case. You answered my question. I was wondering if it was for that.
 specific area or citywide but that is for the metro area so the south bend mishawaka indiana hud metro fmr area thank you are there any other questions at this time i'll turn to the public to see if anyone is wishing to speak in favor of resolution 2257 please state your name and address for the record good evening my name is rasmus jorgensen i live in
 Soren Street, which means I live near this site, and I'm very excited about this project. I've lived in that area for about six years, and so I've seen how things have really been moving forward. I think this is a huge step in the right direction, especially since it's just such a large site that's been sitting vacant for years. I'm excited about bringing in more people to the area, which will make it more vibrant, which will improve.
 Bring more people to local businesses like rock coast, which this will be really close to. So those people are very lucky. Um.
 I hope that the city will use some of the money that it will earn and probably taxes on this to keep improving infrastructure specifically so that a concern when you bring in this many people might be that they're going to be a lot of cars you could combat that by improving biking infrastructure walking infrastructure so I really hope that you'll do that anyway very much in favor thank you thank you thank you for your patience Rasmus sticking with us
 Is there anyone else would like to speak in favor? Do you see anyone on the virtual audience? There is no one on the virtual audience wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one from the virtual audience wishing to speak in opposition of this bill. Thank you. I'll turn back to my colleagues. What's your pleasure on resolution 22-57?
 Just quick comments. Thank you, Mr. Johnson, for sticking with us this evening for two plus hours and for your investment in the community. I was able we got it done with committees early enough to get on the Northeast Neighborhood Association meeting this evening. And they were very excited about the project and the neighbors here as Mr. Jorgensen is. And again, thank you.
 Thank you, Councilor Hammond. I mean, Tomas Morgan. I just want to thank you very much for your investment in our city with this housing. We know that we have a housing shortage here in South Bend, but nationally, and so your project helps us to bridge that gap. Thank you. Councilor Wax. I just want to reiterate and repeat those sentiments. Thank you for your investment. Thank you for your patience tonight. And it's...
 it's always exciting when a building that is not being used can be repurposed for a new vibrant use. Investing right now in a new project is a particularly stressful and risky endeavor. So I want to thank you for your investment itself, Ben, and thank you.
 Thank you. Councilor Hammond. Thank you. Yes, and just to point out one piece that has not really been mentioned, I work a lot with the small developers, and one of the great needs in our community are the one-bedroom, smaller units. Most developers want to move into a two- or three-bedroom, and that is really not where the shortages are, so this will really meet that need as well. Thank you.
 Thank you. With that, I'll turn for what's your pleasure? I'd like to move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Heeman. Aye. Vice President Nieskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Thank you, Bill No. Resolution 2257 has been adopted.
 Bills on first reading. Will you please give Bill 6922 a first reading? Yes, Bill 6922. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1405 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 6922 to BZA on 12-5 and to zone in an annexation for public hearing and third reading on 12-12. So moved. Second. Has it been moved and seconded? All in favor? Aye. The motion is carried. Please give Bill 70-22 a first reading. Bill 70-22. First reading on ordinance.
 of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 3409 South St. Joseph Street, Councilmanic District No. 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 7022 to send it to BZA on 12-5 and to Zoning Annexation for public hearing and third reading on 12-12. So moved. Second.
 all in favor aye motion carries will you please give bill 7122 a first reading yes bill 7122 first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1502 miami street councilmanic district number three in the city of south bend indiana
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 7122 to send to BCA on 12-5 and to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on 12-12. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. In the opposition, motion is carried. Will you please give Bill 72-22 a first reading? Yes. Thank you.
 Bill 7222, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 1, Section 1 through 4 of South Bend Municipal Code addressing six councilmanic districts. Thank you so much. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 72-22 to send to the Rules Committee on 1128, also for second and third reading and public hearing on 1128. So moved. Second. Second.
 it has been moved in second and all in favor aye aye any opposition motions carried and is there any unfinished business from council
 I would just like to state regarding unfinished business, colleagues, we will be getting information regarding the CRB second interviews coming up shortly for us to have an executive session to interview the remaining candidates. Currently background checks are being done for those and you will be getting an email
 shortly within this week regarding executive session and interview setups for those candidates so we can move forward. Is there any other unfinished business? New business regarding the Rules Committee and the redistricting that we have on first reading. The Rules Committee will have a meeting and public hearing regarding the redistricting on November 21st at 530.
 So that meeting will be here in the chambers and open to the public in person and or on teams. Secondly, being mindful that our last meeting of the year is December the 12th.
 And also email will be going out to administration that due to the Thanksgiving holiday, the filing date has been moved from Wednesday, November 23rd to Monday, November 21st by noon. So that email will go out for all administration. Is there any new business from anyone else? 530 on November 23rd.
 Monday first. Yes, Monday the 21st at 530. At this time, I will turn to the privilege of the floor. Is there anyone wishing to speak at the privilege of the floor?
 evening council members caleb bauer executive director of community investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building i just wanted to bring your attention uh every year the last couple years the indiana chamber has done a tournament called the coolest thing made in indiana and this year some of you might already be aware uh i think they're in the sweet 16 round two south bend businesses are in that round pure green farms and uh the
 wagon tails mobile conversions which is a mobile pet grooming and veterinary clinic van conversion company i i was not familiar with wagon tails so uh i'll send the link around to you the voting for this round ends tomorrow night and then there will be a few more rounds but i just thought it'd be a good opportunity to support a couple cool local businesses thank you thank you so much do you see anyone in the virtual audience wishing to speak on the purpose of the floor
 there is no one from the virtual audience wishing to speak um during privilege of the floor thank you with that this meeting is now adjourned