Good evening. I would like to call Monday, November 13th, Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the audience. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat. Directions to do so are in the chat. You will be called on during the meeting to provide public input. Again, please insert your name, your address, and whether you would like to speak for or against a specific item. You will then be given five minutes to speak.
 If you would like to speak during the privilege of the floor, please again put your name and your address in the chat and the council president will call on you during that time. You will then be given three minutes to speak at privilege of the floor. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we would like to welcome Reverend Ivy Butler from Power and Praise Ministries. Welcome, Shepherdess. Thank you so much.
 All right. We're here to pray. Father God, in the name of Jesus, we thank you for this day, God. And we understand at the end of this day, we will never see again. I pray God for this council meeting on tonight. I pray God that you give each council member wisdom, knowledge,
 Guidance and understanding As they begin to deliberate on the Items before them I pray God that every decision Be righteous in your sight For our benefit and for Your glory this we pray in Jesus name amen and amen Amen thank you May we stand for the pledge of allegiance Thank you Clark Jones the roll please Council member Davis If he comes in Council member Lee present
 Council member Warner. Present. Council member Wax. Present. Council member White. Present. Council member Tomas Morgan. Present. Council member Hammond. Present. Vice president Naskowski. Present. President McBride. Present. Currently we have eight present. Thank you. At this time, there are no reports for subcommittee on minutes. Special business. Um, um,
 I would ask, I've asked the clerk to update and provide a substitute bill for the approval of our 2024 meeting dates and deadlines as New Year's. The first is on Monday. Therefore, the swearing in plus the organizational meetings must be held on that Monday by statute. So it will have a substitute bill and we will bring that before the council at our next council meeting.
 At this time, I would now like to entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meetings where bills are given a second reading and a public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of that discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 53-23 a second reading?
 53-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1132 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend. All right. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes with a favorable recommendation. All right. We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us. Imani Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor.
 This first site is 1132 Portage Avenue. Owner is Sherry Sellers, and this is a request for a special exception to allow the use of a duplex in a U1 zone district.
 So this is a process that is legalizing a site that currently has been used as a two-unit dwelling. In staff's analysis, allowing for the two-unit dwelling will further complement existing housing stock.
 in the surrounding area and is visually indistinguishable from nearby one-unit dwellings, the proposed use will provide more housing options to residents, and this comes to you with a favorable recommendation from the Board of Zoning Appeals. All right. Is the petitioner going to want to say anything? Come on. Please state your name and address for the record. Hello, I'm Sherry Sellers.
 10426 Vistula Road, Osceola, Indiana. This is a property I purchased as is. It was already set up as a duplex. And I'm taking the steps to legalize this very large house. It's close to 3,000 square feet. Each unit has three bedrooms. And I'm taking the steps to legalize this very large house.
 one of the floors, the main floor has two bathrooms. The upstairs unit has a bathroom. So I think it makes for better affordable housing and also helps to offset the substantial funding needed to rehab this type of a house. I'm paying with it with my personal funding and
 electrical needs a meter and I've taken the steps to implement that, plumbing upgrades and so on. So the whole house will be refurbished, rehabbed. All right. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions? If not, we'll go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wish to speak in favor of Bill 53-23?
 There is no one in the virtual public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 53-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion. I make a motion to send Bill 53-23 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 council member warner hi council member wax hi council member white hi council member thomas morgan hi council member hammond aye vice president nisgatsky aye council member lee aye president all right uh bill 53-23 we sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation
 Councilmember Davis is in the meeting now, I believe. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Okay, we have nine ayes. All right. We will now...
 53-23 go to the full council with the favorable recommendation thank you thank you very much and I meant to say this but I said it earlier but I'm your district council person so thank you for investing in the first district and we appreciate it wonderful to meet you thank you thank you yes all right bill 54-23 don't go too far because I think you're coming right back uh clerk Jones would you give it a second reading yes
 54-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1128 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. This also came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes before us this evening with a favorable recommendation.
 All right. We see that the petitioners are both here. And I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's in front of us. Amani Morrell, Zoning Specialist, offices on the 14th floor. This is 1128 Portage Avenue, owner Sherry Sellers. This is a request for a special exception to allow for a duplex in a U1 zone district.
 In this case, this is a conversion and rehab of a current one-unit dwelling to a two-unit dwelling. And in staff's analysis, this will further complement the existing housing stock in the surrounding area and will provide more housing options for residents. This comes to you from the Board of Zoning Appeals with a favorable recommendation. All right. Ms. Sellers, would you like to say something else?
 state your name and address for the record thank you council members sherry sellers 10426 vistula road osceola indiana this house is located immediately adjacent to the dark uh gray one and happened to come available as i was working on the gray one and uh
 It's a little crazy for me to jump into a second, but I saw the opportunity. I could see walking through it how it could be separated into two units. On the left-hand side door there is a foyer with an existing staircase to the upstairs. So it is very easily partitioned with a wall between, and that makes the second unit
 For those who do not have a layout, I placed an AutoCAD, the dimensions and rooms, two copies. Again, another very large house, dividing it up into two. Each floor has three bedrooms and a bath, and one of the other floors has a second bath. Each floor also has a laundry room and...
 I am separating the utilities, double meters, all new electrical, all new plumbing. It's quite the rehab, but I think this area is really coming around, and I really believe in it. I see so much growth. It's location near the river, near Angela Boulevard, Ward Bakery coming along. That was very exciting for me to see the architectures.
 posting. And that was about a year ago. And I decided, okay, I'm jumping into this one too. And I thank you for your consideration. All right. Well, thank you very much again for the investment in the first district and helping to provide affordable housing for individuals in that area. Council members, do you have any questions?
 councilman wax yeah i didn't ask us about the previous one because it sounded like it was already being used as a duplex but what's the parking situation in that area and would adding a another family would there still be sufficient parking yes there is my background i design and build out restaurants for a living
 and I'm starting to get involved with investments for homes, so I understand the need for parking and paying attention to what can be accommodated. So, of course, there's main street parking on Portage, and of course there's parking on the side street adjacent. There are also two spaces in the back of the house,
 potentially three, but easily two for each of those houses. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. At this time, we're going to go to the public portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone looking to speak in favor of Bill 54-23? There's no one from the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? Neither is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition as well.
 At this point, the public hearing on Bill 54-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 54-23. That we send Bill 54-23 forward with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you all. All right. I will send Bill 5423 to the full council with the favor of
 Clerk Jones, could you read Bill 55-23? Can you give it a second reading? 55-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 110 South Main Street, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation, and if I'm not mistaken, comes before us this evening with a favorable recommendation. All right. Petitioner, we're glad that you're here. Would you state your name and address for the record and give us key points regarding the bill that we're looking at? Thank you. Carrie Meyer, Zoning Specialist with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building.
 Come to you today for the Everwise Credit Union located at 110 South Main Street.
 They recently installed a new freestanding sign. All new freestanding signs in the downtown zoning district require a special exception as the 2020 new zoning ordinance no longer permits them. They had submitted a permit for a freestanding sign and there was some miscommunication between the sign companies and they thought that they had gotten approval for the sign and they went ahead and installed it.
 but found that that in fact was not correct. So they are here this evening requesting permission to be able to keep the new sign that they installed. The new sign is very similar in size and scope as the previous sign that had been there for any number of years. It does show the updated branding. This location is their corporate headquarters location.
 And this location, the building has a bit of a notched frontage, so it isn't pushed up to the front of the property lines like some of the other buildings of the downtown zoning district.
 One of the reasons they did away with the freestanding signs in the zoning district is that all the buildings are pushed up to the property line, so there's really no need for a freestanding sign. It can be identification be accomplished through wall signs, blade signs. But the Board of Zoning Appeals decided that since this was so similar in the size and in the same location that the other had been located, and it is...
 their corporate headquarters, the Board of Zoning Appeals, afforded a favorable recommendation to keep the existing sign as it stands. The petitioner is here with me. All right. Would you please state your name and address for the record? Sure. Elliot Lusk with Everwise Credit Union. Address is 110 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana. So the only thing I'd like to add is um
 We chose to, so there was a miscommunication with our vendors on the approval process. So we started to manufacture the monument sign thinking our entire sign package was approved.
 And then by the time our main sign company realized that was not the case, the sign was already installed. We would have gone through like the special exemption process because our original sign was grandfathered in before the coding change. So a reface of this sign would would have been very similar to what we have now. So that's why we're here just asking for the special exemption. OK, council members, do you have any questions?
 Just for. Go ahead. Go ahead. Our time was a little truncated during committee. So I'll, I'll ask this question. You had said that the staff, the staff had forwarded a unfavorable recommendation to the board of zoning appeals to come to council. And so we talked through that. You just said that the sign itself is similar in size to the previous one. And,
 It seems much larger to me, quite honestly. This is a place I walk on a daily basis. But you in the earlier comments had said that the conversation was that if it were assigned comparable to neighborhood center standards, that that might have been more favorable from the staff end. Could you just...
 expound on that? That's what the staff's recommendation did initially forward, send an unfavorable recommendation to as it stands because it doesn't meet the current ordinance. But if the Board of Zoning Appeals wanted to perhaps consider a smaller sign that would be permitted and say the NC zoning district would be, which would be the next
 lower zoning district, that would have been an eight foot tall, 32 square foot sign.
 And that was staff's recommendation, but the BZA ultimately decided that they would forward, said a favorable recommendation for to keep the existing sign as again, it was very similar in size to what was previously there. It is their corporate headquarters. The building front configuration is a bit different than some of the other buildings that face say Main Street or Lafayette that they are flush. So there is a bit of an area where it's kind of tucked in,
 But staff was basically strictly going by the zoning ordinance. And what's the size of the sign? It's approximately 11 feet tall and 62 square feet, I believe. So a few feet taller than what a neighborhood censure sign would be. Correct. But I do not believe it's overly larger than what...
 had been existing. I don't have the details on the existing sign. The original sign was 11 feet tall and this one is 11 and a half feet tall. Okay. Half an inch. Okay. Yeah and- Thank you, I appreciate that. I just, I mean, for me personally, I think it's important to hold the standards that we have in the downtown area for signage. And I think it's unfortunate the miscommunication that occurs. Unfortunately, this is second time
 this community where a vendor made that there was miscommunication about with the company. And so I think these are unfortunate situations. You know, this could have been a really costly error for the company. So I appreciate all that explanation. Anybody else? Eli?
 What do you think the recommendation would have been the same should it have been asked before the sign was installed? Staff might have made the same recommendation. I can't say what might have happened previously. I just...
 We don't want a precedent set that, you know, and I'm sure it was unintentional, as you said, I'm not accusing of anything the contrary, but we don't want to set a precedent of, you know, do it first. And since it's installed already, you know, it'll get approved. Just putting that out there. And then I think I would just just so everybody will understand kind of I'm trying to make sure I understand exactly what happened. It was pretty much they were going to reface the one that was been there.
 And and the vendor end up well, the vendor end up making a new sign, installing it, and then they realize everything had not been approved. So even if they would have refaced it, it would probably been about the same size.
 So I have a path, if you'd like to see these, of our original sign, what our sign would have looked like if we would have refaced, and then the current sign, which is up here. And the fact that this is their headquarters in the downtown area and the configuration of the buildings are different. That it was grandfathered in. And it was grandfathered in. I would like to point out that the miscommunication was...
 So we had a main sign vendor handling all of like the municipal permits. And then we had a local vendor who was actually doing the building and the installation of the sign. So when our local vendor received the approval email from the city, it just said your your sign package is approved. Right.
 and then it had information on how to pay the permitting fee it was 10 days after our local sign vendor received that email that they received the actual permitting from the city which did not include the monument sign and by then our general sign contractor had already been manufacturing the sign and then our local subcontractor did not communicate to them
 uh we didn't get the approval for the um for the monument sign so all right well thank you very much um any other questions if not we'll go to the public hearing clerk journals is there anyone wishing to speak in favor or opposition of bill 55-23 there's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in favor or in opposition of this bill
 All right. At this time, the public hearing on Bill 55-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 55-23. I'll make a motion to send Bill 55-23 to the full council with the favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Chair, on the motion, I'd like to just make one quick point, if I could. So I know...
 council member thomas morgan has brought this up and kind of uh so this is the second we had another sign previously uh which uh um had a number of deficiencies one of them was size it was about five feet too tall and about uh three feet too wide and uh was very close to the road uh
 And in the end, what we did, just to be clear, to make sure you're talking about precedence, we we allowed that sign. This was, I think, three years ago. We allowed the sign size to stay, but it had to be moved. I think that's a clear distinction here where we had to move it because it was blocking traffic. It was close enough to the road on a very busy on State Road 23 to block traffic. But
 um the height still made sense given the size of the building and the surrounding area and i think that makes sense here given the size of the building and um we're not blocking the sidewalk or anything so i i feel good about this vote thank you all right i got a motion in a second clerk jones please call the roll council council member lee hi council member warner hi council member wax hi council member white
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Of Bill 55-23, we'll go to the full council with a favor recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give 62-23 a second reading?
 62-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property. Part of the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 38 North, range 2 east of the second principal meridian, Portage Township, St. Joseph County, Indiana, being more particularly described as follows.
 commencing at the northeast corner of lot 49 on the recorded plat of northwest addition second plat in the office of the recorder of St. Joseph County, thence south 90 degrees, zero minutes, zero seconds east along the southerly.
 Southerly right-of-way line of McCartney Street, a distance of 72.90 feet. Then south, 0 degrees, 5 minutes, 13 seconds. East, a distance of 269.55 feet.
 to the northerly right-of-way line of King Street, and the point of beginning of this description, thence continuing south, 0 degrees, 5 minutes, 13 seconds, east, a distance of 60 feet, to the southerly right-of-way line of said King Street, thence south, 90 degrees, 0 minutes, 0 seconds, west along said southerly right-of-way line, a distance of 64 feet,
 Thence north, zero degrees, five minutes, 13 seconds. West, a distance of 60 feet to the northerly right-of-way line of said King Street. Thence north, 90 degrees, zero minutes, zero seconds. East, along the said northerly right-of-way line, a distance of 64 feet to the point of beginning of this description containing 3,840 square feet.
 Right now, that has got to be the longest. And I think that those it was it was feet and inches instead of minutes and seconds. Oh, yeah.
 Yeah. It's minutes and seconds, not feet and inches. OK. All right. Well, hey, y'all give it up for the clerk. That was a lot. Yeah, I think this is the most descriptive we've ever had. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there was, Chair. This bill was given no recommendation.
 While in committee, because we did not have a petitioner present. And is the petitioner present? Are they online? They were supposed to be present for, we were told, the 7 o'clock meeting. Right. And we reached out and we still haven't heard. So we reached out this evening and we still haven't heard. So I don't know if something happened. That's strange. It is. That is strange for him. Okay. The ministries. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is strange. I would...
 Can we make a motion or do we have to go through the whole public hearing before we make the motion to table? You have to do the whole public hearing. OK. All right. So we'll go to the to the public. Is there anyone here to speak in favor or against? It's no one in the virtual public expressing interest to speak in favor or against this bill.
 all right there's at this point the public hearing is now closed now i will entertain a motion to table make a motion to table to november 27th all right there's been a um motion in the second clerk jones please call the roll council member warner aye council member wax council member white council member thomas morgan hi council member hammonds aye vice president niskowski
 council member davis council member lee hi president mcbride aye nine nine all right so this will be tabled until november the 27th and then we will make sure that we make sure that someone's here all right let's give 75-23 a second reading
 75-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1119 North Tickenham Drive, Councilman and District Number 4 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon. And because the petitioner was not available, it comes to us with no recommendation.
 All right. Is the petitioner present? Carrie Myers, zoning specialist with the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor. The petitioner is not in the room. I don't know if he's online. I did attempt to reach out to him after committee. All right. Petitioner, are you online? All right. Well, we'll go to the public hearing. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor or against Bill 75-23?
 There's no one in the virtual audience that has expressed interest to speak in favor or in opposition of Bill 7523. Okay. At this point, the public hearing of Bill 75-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion. Make a motion to table to November 27th. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Iskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. This this bill has been tabled till November the 27th.
 thank you at this time i will entertain a motion to rise from the committee of the whole and report back to the full council it's been all right it's been moved and seconded clerk jones please call the role council member davis hi council member hammond hi council member thomas morgan hi
 Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. 9-9. We will now rise from the committee behold and report back to the full council. A portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones will you give bill 50-23 a third reading?
 50-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing two and bringing within the city limits of South Bend and amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 23-23114 Lincoln Way West, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 50-23? Yes.
 50-23 was a third reading only? Yes. And it was a favorable recommendation. Okay. Comes to the council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. They helped you out on the last council meeting. They came out of the committee of the whole with a favorable recommendation. So thank you. I will accept that report. At this time, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 50-23. I'll watch.
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine aye. Bill 5323 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5423 a third reading?
 Excuse me, Chair. 54, 53, 23. I'm looking at it too. Thank you. 53, 23. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for a property located at 1132 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Thank you, Counselor Lee.
 recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5323. 5323 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5323. Motion for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 President, Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 5323 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5423 a third reading?
 54-23, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 1128 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 54-23? 54-23 comes to the full counsel with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 54-23. Motion for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones to roll, please.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Watt. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine. Thank you. Bill 5423 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5523 a third reading?
 5523, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for a property located
 at 110 South Main Street, Councilman of District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you, Luke. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 5523? 5523 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5523. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Watts. Councilmember White.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 5523 has been adopted. Resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where Common Council hears bills. Those two are taken.
 Thank you, Clark Jones. Yes, I will say for the record, I'm sorry, Clark Jones, Bill 6223 has been tabled until 1127 and also Bill 7523 has been tabled until 1127. Resolutions.
 the title of each proposed resolution is read by the clerk a report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and recommendation is then given during the public portion each proposed resolution members of the public are invited to address the council we ask that you please give your name address and the comments on the bill if you have any questions that will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal each member of the public is limited to five minutes
 for those speaking in favor going first, followed by those in opposition, then a five-minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill if necessary. Clerk Jones, will you please give Resolution 2364 a reading?
 2364, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, reaffirming the grant of certain real property tax abatement deductions and waiving noncompliance for property commonly known as 4836 West Western Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46619 for Nelkamp Properties, LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is. President McBride, Bill 23, Resolution Bill Number 23-64 was heard in Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. Petizner. Hi, Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity, Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. For your consideration, is
 a waiver of noncompliance for a tax abatement, which was passed by council, confirmed in November of 2018. This is for property on West Western Avenue. It's a Dairy Queen that was completed in May of 2020. At the time, the property was part of the parking lot for what is the Planet Fitness right off of Western Avenue. The
 The petitioner at the time had committed to spending $1.6 million in private investment in the project and had also expected to create 45 new jobs, total full time and part time.
 The it was a seven year abatement which Council passed at the time. We come before you with this waiver of noncompliance because earlier earlier this year the property owner had realized that she was not receiving the benefit of the tax abatement and that she was not receiving the benefit of
 What was happening was she was filing the tax abatement forms with our office, but had failed to file them with the county auditor. This is quite common with the waivers that council has considered in the past.
 It's a complicated process and because the property owner was filing with our office over this time, there was no red flags and no reason for DCI staff to think that they were not complying with the paperwork.
 paperwork requirements with the county auditor. As we were going through the process of completing the annual tax abatement report and looking at tax compliance for each of the current tax abatement recipients, the property owner had then realized that she had not been receiving her abatement. This is partly because...
 what we had done differently this year was we had sent out much clearer instructions to abatement recipients regarding what paperwork needed to be filed and with which with which office um so once the property owner had received that information she realized that the paperwork was not being filed with the county auditor correctly um the waiver that you're considering would waive the non non-compliance for four years the first three years
 where the taxpayer had filed a paperwork with us
 but not with the county auditor. And then this year, as we worked with the property owner on the process, she did actually file the paperwork with the county auditor, but it was after the May 10th deadline. So the waiver that you're considering would include this most recent tax year as well. Just for, I went through and ran the numbers.
 We'd be looking at roughly a tax refund for this property owner of about $21,700. This goes back to the previous three years. And then, as you can see on the screen, that we are about halfway through her tax abatement. The property owner is here. She's happy to talk about the request for the waiver and to answer any questions that you might have.
 Thank you. Please state your name and address for the record. Sure. Vandana Patel, 4836 West Western Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46619. Thank you.
 Um, has Mark stated, um, it was approved for seven years and I was an impression that I was only had to file with their office, of course, um, actually stopped in a couple of years in a row here at the office to see that if it has taken effect on my bill every, every year when I paid my tax bills as well.
 I was advised that if, you know, whatever your bill is, the auditor's office has already done their work and that's what you pay. And I'm like, OK, that's fine. I accepted that answer and paid tax bills every year until, of course, I got an email from Mark this year, which was very detailed, very different than what I normally get each year in April.
 So I reached out to him and asked, OK, this looks totally different than what I've been doing for past three years. It's when he was able to explain all the details of how it's processed and where I have to file, what forms I have to file. So that's when I realized that I was only doing half of the process, not the other half. And he explained we had a meeting here, went through everything, filed it for this year. So, you know, I know that it's done. Of course, we were a little late to do that.
 But that's that's exactly how it happened. Yeah. Thank you. You're welcome. Counsel, do you have any questions of the petitioner? Counselor Wax? I think we addressed this in committee, but other than the filing, all the details of the abatement, all the requirements have been complied with. Yes, sir.
 So, direct investment was $1.66 million, which exceeded the private commitment. I think you had mentioned that the total investment you've put into that property is about, yeah. Total, after, yeah. It's more than estimated. Yes, it's 2.1. And their reported job numbers every year were at or exceeding the commitment as well, which was another reason why it was, you know, there was no red flags. Perfect. Thank you. Compliance.
 may i make a comment sure counselor nisgatsky thank you um president mcbride um
 First, I would like to thank Eric for being so detailed in sending that letter out to all of the members that's received tax abatements, because I think it's important for everyone to understand the process. And I'm glad to see that you've done that. And it sounds like it was very detailed because it prompted her to understand that, oh, gee, maybe I'm not this isn't isn't happening for me. So I would like to thank you for that. And second is that is in the sixth district.
 And I can tell you that's right around the corner from where I live. My grandkids loved that Dairy Queen. And it was much needed development for that area. There's a lot of parking lot there, a lot of space. And so it really was a welcome development. So I would just like to take the time to say thank you for investing $2.1 million. Thank you.
 um and there's more room there if anybody else would like to think about a further investment um but it really has been a game changer for our neighborhood we really love that dairy queen and thank you for the investment and eric again thank you for clearing that up for all of the tax uh abatements that has been run thus far through the council uh thank you council member uh following the community investment uh committee meeting earlier i did share with all council members that
 letter that had been sent out earlier this year. And just so you don't mind, just for everybody, especially those that are in the room, to understand, again, this process involves the city and the county. And before Eric, who has been doing a great job of everybody that I talk to who works with you,
 Says nothing but good things about. About how you help them through the process. And it is, it can be a very daunting task. And again, it'd be different if she hadn't been sending the paperwork into the city, thinking that everything was, was done. And,
 I just know that if I found out that I wasn't getting what I thought I was supposed to get, I would want to try to fix that. And so this is that process. And again, until Eric got here, we've had people come before us before who didn't know that they were supposed to file something with the county and didn't know. So again, if I had $21,000 that was coming back to my business, I would want to try to
 It would make me want to apply to get it. So just so everybody understands that it was a city and a county process and somewhere in the process, the county didn't didn't didn't didn't do their their part or or.
 they weren't getting educated on it, but now they are. So hopefully we won't have too many of these coming before us. I appreciate those comments. I think this past year, I mentioned this during the four o'clock meeting, we brought the compliance element in house this past year. And I think that's been helpful because we can actually see in real time who submitted their forms. And then as committee members were commenting at four o'clock
 You know, we need to also make that extra step of ensuring that they're, you know, they are actually filing them with the county auditor because our goal is to not have to do these next year. So hopefully when we get into the spring and we get into the May deadline for when tax abatement recipients are supposed to be filing their forms that we don't.
 have these issues come up because it's, they're running businesses there and, you know, they're not, they're not necessarily complicated forms either. So it's, you know, it's a small business owner is doing it by themselves. They send it to the city. They think that they're done, you know, and then they turn around and find out that they're not compliant. So it's really an added burden. And I think that we can do a better job
 you know, at the start of next year, making sure that all of the tax payment recipients are better prepared for the May filing deadlines. Thank you. At this time, I will turn to the public to see if there's anyone wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2364. There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of 2364. Same said, is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 there is no one uh wishing to speak in opposition as well thank you i'll turn back to my colleagues do you have any additional comments well first i would like to say the public portion is now closed is there any additional comments um i do want to say for motion i um just for the public record you know the
 community investment committee and council we're seeing up to you know six or eight waivers of compliance when when we first started and so this is a dramatic decrease it really has we've only um this is one in in quite a while that that we've seen and so really do appreciate the efforts um and um just want us to continue to and I want to say this on record to continue to
 um communicate with the auditor's office and and look to some process uh um tweaks on their end thank you there's a motion on the floor is there a second second it's been motion and seconded clerk jones to roll please council member white council member thomas morgan aye council member council member hammond council member davis aye
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Vice President Nostafsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2364 has been adopted. Thank you. Bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you please give bill 7623 first readings.
 76-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 17, Article 14, Section 17 through 128 to update the monthly stormwater user fees. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 76-23 to Personnel and Finance for public hearing and third reading on November 27th. So moved. Second. So I moved and seconded. Clerk Jones to roll, please.
 Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give 7723 a first reading?
 seventy seven twenty three first reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana amending ordinance number one zero nine eight five twenty three titled an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana authorizing the acquisition construction and installation
 of certain additions extensions and improvements to the city's sewage works authorizing the issuance of additional revenue bonds for such purpose in the principal amount not to exceed 36 million dollars to provide funds for the payment of the cost thereof
 providing for the safeguarding of the interest of the owners of said bonds, addressing other matters connected therewith, including the issuance of notes in anticipation of bonds and repealing ordinances inconsistent therewith. Thank you. A motion to send Bill 7723 to Person on Finance for Public Hearing, the third reading, on November 27th. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis. Yes.
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7823 a first reading?
 78-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 2921 West Western Avenue, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Motion to send Bill 78-23 to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on November 27th. So moved.
 Second. Been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Vice President Nisgatsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. That was 78-25.
 clerk Jones will you please give bill 8023 a first reading
 80-23, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1410 Ford Street, Councilman and District Number 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Motion to send Bill 80-23 to zoning and annexation for public hearing and third reading on November 27th. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please.
 council member lee hi council member warner council member wax council member white hi council member thomas morgan hi council council member hammond vice president niskoski hi council member davis president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you at this time i will open it up for any unfinished business from the council sure
 May I? Sure, Mr. Davis. I want to thank the South Bend Police Department for their swift action with a lot of these crimes. Murders has been happening here in South Bend. It's sad to see what's happening and what has occurred. But their performance has been nothing short of excellent. And I just wanted to commend them on the job well done.
 I just hope that we realize that or I hope that we can start trying to figure out preventive things With so many scenarios. I don't know if we could prevent any of them or all of them I should say all of them but some of them can be prevented. I just think it just takes a little bit more brainpower commitment so again heads off to Southern Police Department and their actions and
 because they're doing a job. They are absolutely doing a job. I just wish that they didn't have to do that job. Second thing is I wanted to bring up tomorrow at 6 p.m. We're having our meeting at the LaSalle Park Neighborhood Association to continue to further to continue the talks on LaSalle Park planning.
 All are invited. It's a public meeting. Obviously, it's the Neighborhood Association meeting, but you all are invited to come out if you desire. Thank you. Thank you. Any other counsel? With that being said, I'll move on to new business. Just a reminder that, of course, the December 25th meeting is canceled. That is listed because of the holiday. Is there any other questions?
 NEW BUSINESS. IF NOT, I WILL OPEN IT UP TO THE PRIVATE OF THE FLOOR. DISRESPECTFUL ROUTE OR DISRUPTED SPEECH OR ACTIONS WILL NOT BE TOLERATED. SUCH SPEECH AND OR ACTIONS AS WELL AS VERBAL ATTACKS ON ANY PERSON MAY RESULT IN THE INDIVIDUAL WITHOUT NOTICE FORFITTING THE REMAINDER OF HIS OR HER ALLOTTED TIME. INDIVIDUALS WHO WISH TO ADDRESS THE COUNCIL MUST STATE THEIR NAME AND RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS. INDIVIDUALS WHO WISH TO ADDRESS
 Individuals will be limited to three minutes only. The maximum time limit for this portion shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics in which was discussed tonight on tonight's agenda.
 the council president may assign a topic raised by the individual doing the prison of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of city administration for review topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting at this time i would like to open it up for privilege of the floor if anyone would like to speak please come up and state your name and address
 Hi, Mark Rolfes, 1219 Napoleon Street. Congratulations to the Democratic Party on a big win. I look forward to you guys leading us wisely. I approached the committee about six or eight weeks ago, expressing my interest in the Community Police Review Board. It looks like you've been waiting for after the election to make those appointments.
 And even though it is now going to be 9-0 on the county council, there were still 36 percent of the people who voted Republican. And I think it would be prudent to have Republicans included on that committee. And you could approve all nine Democrats within your rights, and I would respect that.
 but again this committee when there's a crisis that's when you're going to need it and the whole community will need it and also as democrats as elected officials you guys need it too if there's a crisis uh everyone will be on the hot seat that's elected and i think to help not only the keeping the police accountable but also sort
 starting the healing process in the community, you'll be well served by including, I think, two Republicans would be good. Three would be mathematically proportionate, but maybe two would be appropriate. So I just think I want to encourage you as you go through that selection process to consider that and keep including some of us who want to be part of that process to help the police accountability, but also to help the healing process in case there ever is a crisis in town. Thank you very much. Thank you so much.
 When is the Citizens Review Board going to be seated? Actually, we will talk about that. I'll send out an email before the next council meeting to council. There's no date? No, I will set it out. I can't. I have not talked to everyone to get that date. So I will communicate with you guys this week. Thank you. Please state your name and address.
 Yes, it's Logan Foster at 1138 College Street. So I wanted to follow up on previous efforts that I've came during the privilege of the floor. I brought up that the police transparency hub was inaccurate. And in my communications with South Bend City Legal, they did have an admission that the SQL code that powers the transparency hub was,
 does not pull in all of the data that runs the transparency hub. So South Bend City Legal has admitted that the police transparency hub is inaccurate. So when I came to you guys and told you that the police transparency hub is not factual, it is not accurate, and the data that the public is seeing, the residents seeing that you guys are provided is not 100% honest,
 is not 100% truthful or factual, we're not getting the complete story, that was true. So I can send you guys that email. But the main thing that I want to see from you, what I want you guys to help me is when will that be fixed? Because if you guys know a lot about SQL code, it's not that complicated. And as with a city that operates a 400 some million dollar budget,
 We should have an answer to when that will be fixed. That timetable, I know that the SQO code has been down since February of this year. They told me it was down in September. It's still down in November. But other residents have came to me and said, Logan, it's been down for years because legal told them the same thing. So if someone can get back to me and say, when will we fix this? Because we're...
 Every day that it's not accurate, we're lying to the residents. Thank you, Mr. Foster. I will have Ms. Tomas Morgan follow up with IT as the council does not maintain that site. That's the police site. So since she is over the committee for information and technology, I will have her follow up. Thank you. Anyone else? Clark Jones, do you see anyone in the virtual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience expressing interest to speak at privilege of the floor. Okay.
 Thank you. With that being said, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night.