Good evening. I would like to call Monday, November 28th, Common Council meeting to order. Clark Jones, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we are muting everyone's mic for the quality of the audience as well as the council and yourselves. We ask that if you have a public comment for the
 at the time of the public input that you would write your name and your address in the chat and you will be called on during that time. You will have five minutes to speak during public comment. If you have information that you would like to share on privilege of the floor. Again, please put your name and your address in the chat. You will be called on by the council president and you will have three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 At this time, I would like to welcome Father Jim Fenstermaker of Holy Cross School to come for the invocation. Welcome. Thank you so much. From the book of the prophet Isaiah, we read, Come, let us climb the Lord's mountain to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may instruct us in his way and we may walk in his paths. For from Zion shall go forth instruction and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
 He shall judge between the nations and impose terms on many peoples. O House of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the Lord. Let us pray. Heavenly God, this season of Advent invites us to walk ever more faithfully in the light of your counsel. May your light enlighten the eyes, minds, and hearts of our city counselors and their deliberations and decisions.
 that they will always seek the common good of the people entrusted to their care, giving them access to those social conditions that allow our citizens as individuals and as groups to reach their fulfillment. Send your grace upon our city councilors that they will be open to the guidance of your spirit in their deliberations this evening.
 May they see the needs of our city and citizens and respond with integrity as their consciences guide them. We ask this blessing in your holy name. Amen. Thank you so much. God bless you. At this time, if we could stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I state to the mayor, we will be following the programs of the nation. Thank you. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please? Yes. Councilmember Davis.
 Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Watts. Present. Councilmember White is excused. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President Misgotsky. Present. President McBride. Present. Kate present. Thank you. At this time, we will have a report, an update from Ann Perry, Executive Director of VPA.
 Evening Council Aaron Perry, Executive Director of Venues, Parks and Arts address at 301 South Saint Louis Blvd. Appreciate the invitation.
 This afternoon, the Council got the opportunity to hear from the four division directors that make up the park side of the house, and hopefully you enjoyed the dashboards. Those are actually, if we've neglected to mention, those are actually distributed monthly through our park board packet. And so those are always available publicly online for folks to view, including the Council if you're interested in keeping up with each one of those divisions more thoroughly.
 Ice skating season has started officially out at Howard Park. We've turned it over now for the third winter in a row, and we're looking forward to welcoming thousands and thousands of guests. We're usually about 45,000 a season that we're seeing out there.
 part about 10% of those are through our skate forward program the free and reduced cost skating, in fact, I provided the Council with 10 tickets just earlier tonight that you can surprise and delight some of your residents and neighbors in your district with those. We partner with about 65 different organizations to hand those out throughout the city so.
 right across the street from Howard Park. A new bit of surprise made possible through the National Endowment for the Arts. A grant we got there, a grant with the Community Foundation of St. Joseph County and the private gift from Robbie and Pamela Rask. These are daydreamers. We'll have a moment to celebrate them, but they work the best in the winter when it reflects off the snow, as you can see in this picture. They arrived here from Montreal, Canada, just about two weeks ago, just in time for the snow.
 They're designed to bring people together. You can play with it by yourself, but they're these little like slow carousels, not like the carousels that spin around really fast. They're governed with speed. If you play with them with two people, it'll make a little noise.
 if you have another group of two people sitting on the other ones, it'll start to form like a symphonic chorus. If all three are activated, moving in synchronicity, you'll get this beautiful song. And so when Daily 2 Le Jour was here a few years ago doing community meetings, part of what we said was we wanted the downtown area, particularly around the river and Howard Park, to be a spot where people come together, regardless of which side of the river you're on or not.
 So this is a really neat special gift to the community. So wanted to point that out. This of course is the Morris 100th year. I shared some of this with the council earlier, so I'm gonna go rather quickly, but it was a top to bottom renovation this summer, brand new floor, all new seats, all new carpet, all new soft goods, sound and lights, a new roof.
 all new mechanicals and otherwise this is my favorite before and after picture. This is literally what was in the building. That same piece of equipment nowadays looks like this. It was quite a bit of effort, nearly $7 million worth of work actually, to ensure this 100-year building survives for another 100 years. A lot of stuff that people won't see. But by the way, that investment was all designed to produce return.
 over the course of its 20 year lifecycle of that equipment through a guaranteed energy saving contract, which Council approved probably about this time last year, actually. So if any given year we don't save as much money as was estimated through that ESCO, they'll write us a check for the difference. So we're proud of that.
 The new security systems that are installed are already proving to be worth their weight in gold in terms of efficiency and comfort for our guests, but also safety top of mind. Yet to come, a few more sound and light upgrades. And then we aspire to do phase two, which I've got some pictures of here as well.
 Before that, though, just a quick summary of the Morris 100 Fest, which happened September 30th, October 1st. Capstone of best week ever. We saw about 12,000 people through the gates at the free community festival. Just some of the highlights that that was really just a special moment for our city to come together. We do that in our lives, right? We come together around special moments, birthdays or anniversaries or baptisms. It's, I think, important as a community that we pause sometimes.
 and take those moments to come together and celebrate the best of who we are and what we have to offer. And so the Morris 100 Fest was a great example of that, but it also produced some great returns for our local businesses. Through a partnership we have with MasterCard and the City Possible Network,
 our innovation technology department works to analyze the economic impact of things just like this event so we could tell you that on that weekend compared to the very same weekend a year ago we total spending in the immediate six block area was up 258 and total accounts uh was up over
 just slightly above that. So an incredible amount of return, not only about community building, but also economic building.
 So we look forward to doing that again. The Council approved a generous amount of resources to bring back the ethnic festival, and so we intend to do that next summer. Sometime our first kind of community meeting, we've invited some partners and the Council is invited as well to come around and start to talk about. What's the date? What should it be called? Where should it be held? What type of flavor should it? Should it take on no pun intended when I say flavor all the flavors,
 But we're going to do that next week at 2 p.m. Monday, the 5th at Howard Park, and we'll have just a kickoff meeting. Certainly not your only opportunity to get engaged. This will be a community-driven planning effort, but that's where we're going to start here right as we round out the year. Going back to the Morris and just kind of showing you some of our aspirational images for Phase 2 of the work, that includes a building expansion for more facilities.
 Performance space, more circulation, more concession space, and just a way to celebrate the arts in a marquee way in the downtown.
 some of these images. They're all again available on our website, but as a reminder, this whole campaign we set out to raise $30 million inclusive of our equity in arts and maintenance endowments. We're over $24 million of the way there. So over 80% of the way there. And we have some major announcements I think we'll be able to say just before the new year as well. So we feel good about where we are there. I spent some time updating the council this afternoon as well.
 through email last week about the condition and status report of Potawatomi pool. We did get about an 80-page report from Frost Engineering, who we consulted with starting back last May, as soon as we really understood the catastrophic issues that were happening with the nearly 65-year-old pool.
 So they went through a huge amount of effort below grade as well as all the exhaustive research and investigation around the mechanicals and current code and safety considerations. That report is available on the Venues, Parks and Arts website. It's publicly available, but I'm just showing you some summary slides here. And this is one worth pausing on because the picture is worth a thousand words when you kind of understand what is happening with that pool structure,
 similar to the Morris concrete fails over the course of time. And so that's what was happening here. And there's really a,
 No other way to explain it, but irreparable damage to the subterranean kind of infrastructure there. And so it was really exhaustively cataloged here. And this slide outlines basically the bottom line position we find ourselves in. We asked the consultant to study what a short-term repair would be.
 and that came out to about a $2 million cost. That repair would be projected to last two to three years. The long-term repair would be at least $5.7 million to effectively redo the entire pool.
 It was asked earlier, President McBride asked about the the chart that was provided in the report around page 6768 and how that contrasts with the the
 effectively the summary costs. The chart itself actually just addressed the replacement of the equipment, but not the labor. And so that's some of the discrepancy you'll see there between them. And there was not contingency yet added in. And if there's anything that history has taught me being involved with some of these large-scale projects, the first number you see typically goes up. And so that's why you want to be talking contingency. So, yeah, I think that's a good
 baseline, I would say this is very conservative. It would be at least in that, you know, nearly $6 million mark to replace the pool. But we know how important it is of an asset to our community. Just a few other kind of comments.
 pictures and bullets around the fact that a lot of this equipment is obsolete. We were losing, by the way, if you didn't see this, over 14,000 gallons of water a day when we tried to fill it up earlier this year. That's how we knew there was an issue, not to the cost and the environmental impacts of that alone. Just tell you it's not a good idea to keep it open.
 But there's a lot of things that are really obsolete in terms of code and safety compliance as well. So bottom line, and this is I know I'm going rather quickly, but there's a few other things I want to cover. The recommendation we made to Park Board last week and what I'm saying here as well is that we need to take a pause here and really study what pot of autonomy wants to be and what aquatics wants to be in South Bend.
 I've mentioned we have been here before, not with water, but with ice when Howard Park was faced with a failing ice rink. And we had to say, OK, let's just not go in there and rush to replace this same rectangle ice rink right where it always was. Let's have a larger community conversation around what does ice look like? Where should it be in the park? Should the park itself need to evolve? And we now have one of the best parks in the country.
 I think we need to do that here as well and say, hey, the pool is only one part of Pottawatomie Park. The conservatory is about the same age as the pool. It needs some investment. Kids Kingdom was all the rage when I was a child. It needs some investment. There's been a lot of conversation in the neighborhood around Wall Street and how that
 It's kind of an unsafe street that divides two halves of the park. The zoo is getting more and more popular and parking is a challenge around there. So we need to study the park as a whole and get a master plan about where do we want to head with this, as well as aquatics. Kennedy.
 eight splash pads east race east races over 40 years old 45 years old now um the ymca closed and and there feels there seems to be a void with that pool not in the community anymore so have those two conversations concurrently next year and then work on resourcing it and putting a plan into action in the ensuing years
 A few other projects that are of note. We've been talking quite a bit about the replacement of the Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center. January 15th.
 at 1 p.m. is when we will celebrate the evolution of this. It's the day before Martin Luther King Day, it's a Sunday. So that'll be the groundbreaking ceremony. In the meantime, all of our programs are being relocated to either VPA facilities or school facilities. All the staff is gonna maintain their jobs while this goes offline for a period of time to be,
 effectively three times the size of it is as it is today. And really a world-class community center. So just a couple of the images, the two full court basketball courts, this the two-story building, the track above the basketball courts, the indoor playground,
 The fitness centers, the community meeting rooms, the dream room is up there in the upper left. And so a lot of work yet to be done there. But we're excited and appreciative of the council's support as that project moves forward. Sice Park is...
 Full speed ahead that property was returned to us from the University of Notre Dame's Hydroelectric project earlier this fall, and they're out there working. They're going to. They're planning on working all winter long and probably mid to late summer. We'll have a sites park back online, so look forward to that ribbing cutting. I'm thinking August is what we're being told.
 We're going to be going out to bid shortly here for the improvements at LaSalle Park. We promised after the EPA cleanup was done, we would bring some improvements to LaSalle Park, including some new performance space, a roller skating loop, basketball, outdoor restrooms, and otherwise. So that will be going out to bid, I think, before the year's end. So that can be a construction project next year.
 I think I mentioned the ones on the left hand side there. Rum Village will also get some upgrades on the interior of the nature center to make it more usable for more community events and otherwise. Measel Grove is getting a brand new restroom building that's under construction right now. Walker Field restroom building is being renovated. I think we have 18 different athletic courts, pickleball, basketball, tennis underway right now and we're lined up to do 800 plus tree planting next year.
 So on top of a lot of the organizational items we have coming, I mentioned during budget season, the merger of community initiatives, which is currently in the mayor's office, merging with Cynthia Taylor's division and community programming. Those teams are already working really closely together to make that a success.
 our parks outreach and engagement team that kind of worked on safety and security in our parks was, um, met with quite a bit of success this past summer in terms of the, uh, the creative outreach to, uh, keeping our places really welcoming, accessible and safe. And so we're going to, uh,
 Re up that next year we have some key open positions. You heard from Jonathan Jones earlier today, who's our been our director of recreational experiences for the past five years. He's moving on from the city going over to the private sector. He'll be back, we know, but nonetheless will miss him. We have that position. Our deputy director position, our youth outreach, our youth employment manager. So a few key positions that will be filling here hopefully before the year end.
 getting those dashboards up online, like we had mentioned, and some of our contracts. Finally, next year is our reaccreditation year. So every four years, we're up for reaccreditation. A lot of work goes around that. It's not only the what we do, but the how we do it and the impact drivers behind everything. Our strategic plan will be redone. And that's really what informs
 every all these fun things that you see, there's a real why behind all of it. And so it's always a pleasure to be able to tell council about some of those impacts and also see national recognition. So I know many of you were celebrating with us a few weeks ago when the national team was in town handing us the gold medal. So we effectively were named the top parks department in the country back. We can clap for that. Thank you.
 back in September in Phoenix. And so we brought home the gold. That was really fun. I gave Council, in addition to your Skate it Forward passes, a little gold that you can put on your shelf or put it on your lapel. We're keeping busy and we've got plenty ahead in the new year. So thanks for the opportunity to present.
 Now you can take a breath, Mr. Perry. I told you I would go fast. I don't know if I got my time. You did amazing. That was exactly 15 minutes. You know, VPA is my baby. Sorry, Pastor Lee. I passed it on and put it in good hands. But I am so excited for the work that you do, and you should be very, very proud of how you have led the charge of turning our parks and open spaces into...
 around and I mean just phenomenal. Coming to South Bend and having things to do for our residents is just amazing. So I really, really want to say thank you for all the hard work that you do and for your staff and for this community. So thank you. Council Warren. Thank you. I just echo that and then there is one point at I was at that park board meeting that was made by the engineer that I haven't heard tonight, which I think is.
 is kind of important and that was kind of a uh you know the timeline on what even if we go that short-term route construction still probably is not going to happen in 2023 that there's a pun intended there's a small pool of contractors that do this kind of work and finding somebody available next year will be very challenging and even if we take that short-term method it may be 2024 until there is a
 repaired pool to use in that summer of 2024. So that's something to keep in mind, I think, also that was made that I hadn't heard tonight that I think is important. Yeah, thank you for mentioning that and even more reason to point our feet towards a longer-term solution. And I thank you for bringing that up because two pools that was in the third district has been affected, the Y and also with the
 The Potawatomi pool, so I know that there's interested now with Kennedy Park, but I believe that Clay High School or Middle School High School is available, but I know we definitely need something, but.
 we have a lot to keep us busy and it definitely takes a long-term planning so i know a lot of our you know residents are not happy with the process but it does take time and i'm just glad to hear that um there's definitely an appetite and a pathway forward to try to have a master plan to get something in place so thank you
 Any other counselor told us Morgan. Thank you. President McBride Mr. Perry. Thank you so much. It's always impressive to hear these updates and reports from you. I just wanted to share that my family went to Howard Park on Friday, brought a group of eight to skate, and it was really.
 every time they're impressed by what we see. And that particular evening, just a rich diversity of people, ages, abilities, races, and cultures, all together sharing this beautiful public space together. Thank you.
 Thank you, counselor Lee. Yes, Mr Perry. I want to thank you for your presentation and thank you for coming and giving us updates. I really wanted the council and the city to hear about the wonderful things that have happened. The wonderful experiences people are having throughout our parks here in the city of South Bend and the wonderful things going on with Morris and Randolph Park. That was. Um.
 brought back to life and also the latest park that we dedicated to Mayor Leakey. Yeah, that's right, Mayor Leakey. And so we wanted the city and everybody to know that there's been a lot of great things happening and a lot of challenges, and you have done a great job of leading the charge and carrying that weight. And so
 Appreciate all your hard work.
 Yep, all I can say is thank you for the presentation. I concur with my colleagues. You're doing a great job. Our park system is amazing. The gold medal, that was really, really a feather in the cap of the city and for all the residents in the city to be able to enjoy that beautiful park in all of our parks. And that's through the leadership, obviously, that you've shown and your team for their dedication to the park system here in our city.
 I know I'm looking forward to Walker Field getting done, as are the residents. And we had a lot of input, and they took a lot of time to talk with the residents of the 6th District in reference to that park. But I know it's going to turn out wonderful because you're involved with it, and everything you seem to do turns to gold. Thank you. Thank you. I'll turn. Clerk Jones, do you see any of my colleagues wishing to speak?
 Councillor Hammond or Councillor Davis. I don't see anybody with their hands up yet. Okay. Thank you. With that, thank you very much, Mr. Perry. Thank you. I know it takes a lot of political capital to get a lot of these things done, and I appreciate your support. It takes a supportive council, elected officials, supportive community, and our phenomenal staff who we gave the night off. So, appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good day. Now I'd like to entertain a motion to resolve it to the Committee of the Whole.
 there's a there's been motion in second clerk jones the role please council member davis council member lee aye council member warner aye council member wax council member tomas morgan hi council member hammond aye vice president mcscotty aye president mcbride aye eight eyes committee of the whole is now in session this is the portion of the council's meeting where bills are given a second reading in public hearing
 I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed, if the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from the staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will be immediately following the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, would you please give Bill 64-22 a second reading?
 6422, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 613 South Warren Street, Councilmanic District Number 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. This bill came this afternoon before zoning and annexation and comes to us with a favorable recommendation.
 Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Good evening. Angela Smith, zoning administrator with the city of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building. Property owner is at 613 Warren Street near the corner of Ford and Warren Street.
 seeking to rezone from u1 urban neighborhood one to uf urban flex that's a district that allows the flexibility between residential and commercial so it gives a broader um array of things that can happen on the site in this location it's immediately adjacent to urban flex already so it's pretty appropriate in the area that it's in
 The proposed use is to allow the property owner to reside on the property and still maintain the beauty salon that she has in the front. It's just her at this time and helping the community with their services and needs for the area.
 The site, reserving the site to UF Urban Neighborhood Flex will allow for the continued use as a workload residential building, allowing for neighborhood scale services to the surrounding area. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation. Petitioner is here as well. Please state your name and address. My name is Linda Damaris Tinoco. My address is 613 S. Warren Street. Michelle, Spanish interpreter. Please state your name and address.
 Michelle Hernandez, 56859 South Mayflower Rd. Thank you. Councilmembers, do you have any questions for the petitioner? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 64-22? There is no one from the public that's expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 6422? There is no one present wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 64-12 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding this bill at all? Chair, just as I had stated earlier in committee, Linda has taken a home that was
 quite an eyesore in this particular area of Warren Street, which is there on Warren and I believe that's Ford and turned it into a place where she resides at, as well as she does have a business. So what she's attempting to do now is to just get it zoned properly so that she can maintain her business and support her family.
 So it's it looks a lot nicer than what was there. That's for sure. And I fully support Bill 6422. And I hope that my colleagues will as well. Yes. Thank you, Chair. I I just want to echo what Council Member Neitzkowski said. I.
 have friends who live in the area and drove past this particular property again this afternoon and noticed how handsome it was. It does sit next to an event center and so seems properly placed for sure. I just want to say muchas gracias por ustedes y buena suerte.
 I'll just say great job. Thank you for taking a property that was in disrepair and creating a service that the neighborhood can have. I cannot say that in Spanish. That's the best I can say in English. All right. Thanks to everyone. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 64-22. I make a motion to send Bill 64-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. It is now passed.
 There's been a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Bill 64-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Councilman, can I also say thank you to Michelle for translating for us this evening? Thank you very much for your assistance. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Now I will entertain a motion to accept substitute bill 65-22. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Aye.
 Vice President Laskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President LeBron. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Clerk Jones, would you give Substitute Bill 65-22 a second reading? 65-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1036-1037.
 and 1044 Lincoln Way East, Councilmanic District Number 3 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Is there a committee report? Good evening. Oh, sorry. Go. Sorry. That's okay. Yes, there is, Chair. This came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to us with a favorable recommendation.
 we know that the petitioner is present I said you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us Angela Smith zoning administrator with offices on the 14th floor of this building the property here is shown on the screen this is the property in question it's two parcels one owned by the city of South Bend redevelopment Commission and the other private property we were hoping to get the third property in but we had a difficulty in obtaining
 contact with that property owner. This is really looking to rezone this area from I Industrial to U3 Urban Neighborhood 3. This area has been zoned I Industrial for a long time. It has not had I Industrial uses on the property that we could ever find. It was a fire station that was torn down, I believe in the 90s maybe, and then two homes that have resided there, which would not be conforming under the I Industrial district.
 In order to help market this property better through the city, we were looking at rezoning this to the U3 Urban Neighborhood 3. You can see these properties are kind of sandwiched in between Bowman Creek and the railroad, which makes it pretty unpopular to develop for industrial uses. And we think an Urban Neighborhood 3 would allow us a type of use that would be compatible with the uses along Lincoln Way, which are a mix of residential and commercial along that stretch.
 stretch. There's no proposed development at this time. It's just to get this property into a zoning that we think would be easier to attract development to the area and legalize the existing property. If the other property owner in the future came by, we would also welcome them to do the same. So we've been reaching out and trying to help with that process because once it's as it's zoned industrial, it makes it very hard to finance and develop and sell those kind of properties. So we like to have that help them along the way.
 Rezoning the properties to U3, Urban Neighborhood 3 will allow the adaptive reuse of the vacant parcels and legalize the adjacent home. It's a down zoning that is compatible with the area and opens up a greater possibility of development that best fits the character of the neighborhood. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation. Mr. Molnar is here, staff of the Redevelopment Commission, if you have any questions. Council members, do you have any questions? At this time we'll go to the public hearing portion.
 Is there, Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 65-22? There is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 65-22.
 Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition of substitute bill 6522? There is no one present that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of bill 6522. At this point, the public hearing on substitute bill 65-22 is now closed. Council members, any statements? All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding substitute bill 65-22.
 I'd like to move that we send Bill 65-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'll second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Misgowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 65-22 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, would you please give a second reading to Bill 66-22?
 66-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at the vacant land on the east and west sides of North Lindenwood Drive, east between West Lindenwood Drive, south in Auden Road, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. All right. Petitioner? I'm sorry, is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. This bill also came up for zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to us with a favorable recommendation. All right. Thank you so much. Petitioner, I ask that you state your name and address.
 and share with us key points regarding the buildings before us. Angela Smith, zoning administrator with the City of South Bend, offices on the 14th floor of this building. This is a unique property in the far northern side of the city. It has been vacant for quite some time. In the 90s, I believe we annexed this area for a mixed residential development. These parcels have remained undeveloped for this whole time, and they're seeking now to rezone from the S2 and U3 districts to S1 districts.
 When the zoning map was adopted, the zoning districts were assigned to kind of based on what was there before. I'm not sure urban was is anything that we would anybody in this room would think should apply to this area, and so we're not quite sure why urban neighborhood 3 would have been appropriate here to start with.
 So in working with the petitioner, we went back and forth between the S2 district and the S1s. Since their intent is to develop detached single-family homes, the S1 is the most appropriate in terms of development standards and criteria for out here. It still does offer them the opportunity in the future if they wanted to do duplex, they could come for a special exception. But at this time, that's not the plans as far as we know. They're just doing detached single-family homes.
 in this area. It's heavily wooded, completely undeveloped. This would go through a subdivision process, would add sidewalks to the area, would develop it and align with the current subdivision ordinance. And they've proposed a temporary or conceptual use of how it might lay out with 21 single family lots that could be developed here.
 The ultimate development may change over time, but the use would be the same, so it would be geared for low density, single family, detached residential. Downzoning the site to S1 suburban neighborhood 1 will allow the area to be developed with low density residential, that will contribute to a mix of housing options originally anticipated and offer a greater variety of housing choice in the area. This comes to you from the Planning Commission with a favorable recommendation and the petitioner is here.
 Good evening everyone. Mike West with Green Development Ventures and Allen Edwin Homes 2186 East Center Avenue in Portage, Michigan. I don't have anything else to add to Angela's reports very thorough and we appreciate all the assistance she's provided from day one. Council members, do you have any questions for the petition? Any online council members have any questions? Any hands up? If not...
 We will go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 66-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 66-22. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? Neither is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 66-22 is now closed. Council members, if you would like to make a statement.
 You can do so at this time. No one. All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 66-22. Motion to send to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 council member lee aye council member warner aye president mcbride aye eight eyes all right bill 66-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation
 Clerk Jones, one more. 72-22, would you give it a second reading, please? Yes. 72-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 1, Section 1, Report of the South Bend Municipal Code addressing six councilmanic districts. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. The Rules Committee met this afternoon and bring this bill before you with a favorable recommendation.
 You will be the presenter. Yes. I state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill. Sharon McBride, 415 East Broadway Street, South Bend. Thank you so much. I'm the presenter of the bill regarding the redistricting maps. And if you look at the screen there.
 certain actions that the city is required to take every 10 years. And based upon the precincts that were established by the county commissioners, as stated by statute and the population from the 2020 census, the committee was established and has determined that South Bend's total population remained pretty much the same as 10 years ago.
 And it's shown in exhibit. If you can go to the next slide, please. Those are the district maps that we have. But if you keep going, because we talked about a lot of this already with the different districts, it shows the racials and the amount of residents that lives in each district.
 With that being said, the recommendation is to keep all of the districts remain the same because the population is already very, very close to the 1% variance and it's actually closer than it was 10 years ago when the committee met and you can't get any closer than you can with those numbers. And also it complies with the Indiana code requirements and
 also it would be unnecessary uh disruption of the different precincts that we already have established so um that's in summary of the process that we had and I would like to uh yield to see if there's any questions or comments uh Council members do you have any questions for the petitioner no questions all right we'll go to the public uh public hearing portion
 clerk jones is there anyone in the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 72-22 there is no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of bill 72-22 is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition of 72-22 there's no one expressing interest to speak in opposition of bill 72-22 at this point the public hearing on on the bill uh 72-22 is now closed
 Council members, you can make any statements if you want to regarding this bill.
 I would just like to thank the committee who was a part of the redistricting. Carl King, who could not be here, he was the chair of the committee. We had diverse representation and someone representing each district, and it was bipartisan. And so we're just happy that everyone, it was a seamless act to see that all the districts fell within the 1%. So I just thank everybody who served on the committee.
 councilman warner yeah i just have a kind of one comment that kind of puts this into context and you know the case law when you talk about redistricting variances uh the courts want something under 10 percent uh this is down to under one and under half a percent and uh attorney palmer kind of sent me a study and out of all the second class cities in indiana so all the cities our size
 The nearest variation was at 4% so far. So that just kind of puts in context and kind of we're in the range of 4% to 8% where most of the cities, the next lowest to us was 4% to our half percent. Wow. Thank you so much. You're such a lawyer. I love it.
 All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 70. Oh, sorry. Someone has their hand up. Hopefully. All right. Mr. Councilman Davis. Sure. And I missed the question part, but I have a quick question. Earlier, McClure King stated that there were council members that participated on this particular committee.
 And I was wondering who were the council members because when he flashes up on the screen, only caught a couple of names, but those people weren't current council members. So are there any current council members that was on this list or he just misspoke? He just misspoke. There was no council members that served on the committee. Does that answer your question?
 clerk jones has yes um i just want to address that he showed his own presentation which had the old um list of uh participants if you look on laser fish the new information there are no council members that are on that thank you clerk jones all right well i will now entertain a motion regarding bill 72-22 i move that we send 72-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation second
 There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Vice President Misgosti. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. All right.
 Bill 72-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Motion carries. Thank you. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 6422 a third reading?
 6422, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 613 South Warren Street, Councilmanic District number 6 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6422? Yes, 6422 was heard on the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6422.
 Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 6422 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you give substitute bill 6522 a third reading? 6522, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1036 and 1044 Lincoln Way East, Councilmanic District number three in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you, Counselor Lee. Is there a recommendation regarding Bill 6522, Substitute Bill? Yes, Substitute Bill 65-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 6522. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis.
 council member lee aye council member warner all right council member wax aye council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond aye president mcbride aye eight eyes thank you sub bill 6522 has been adopted clerk jones will you give bill 66 22 a third reading
 6622 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at the vacant land on the east and west sides of the Lindenwood Drive east between West Lindenwood Drive south in Arden Road Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend Indiana.
 Thank you, Counselor Lee. Is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6622? Yes, 66-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6622. Move for passage. Second. There's been a move and a second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Davis.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Council Member Hammond. Council Member Hammond. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Seven ayes. Bill 6622 has been adopted. Clark Jones, will you please give Bill 7222 a third reading?
 72-22 third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending Chapter 1 section 1 through 4 of the South Bend Municipal Code addressing six councilmanic districts.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 72-22? Yes. Bill 72-22 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 72-22. Move for passage. There's a second. Second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Misgosti. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 72-22 has been adopted. Now on to resolutions. This is a portion of the Council Meeting where Common Council here bills filed as proposed resolutions. Clerk Jones, will you give resolution 22-58 a reading?
 2258, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designated certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 511 North Notre Dame Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, 46617, an economic revitalization area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for NDQOZB LLC.
 Thank you so much. Hi petitioner, would you please state your name and address? Hi, Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity within the Department of Community Investment with offices on the 14th floor of this building. Thank you. President McBride and council, thank you for the opportunity
 to present this resolution to you. It's a confirming, I'm sorry. If I can pause, I'm sorry. I forgot to ask for the committee report. Oh, I'm sorry. No, so that's, I would like to have the committee report. Thanks, President McBride. This came to community investment this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. It's a confirming resolution for vacant property located at the corner of North Notre Dame Ave and and Cedar Street near St Joe High School. You may recall two weeks ago when the Council approved the declaratory resolution that this is an eight year abatement that the Council is considering. The taxes abated over the span of the abatement would be about $1,000,000.
 The taxes that will be paid exceed $1.1 million by our estimations. Currently, the property only pays about $26,000 in property taxes per year. This has been a vacant building, as I said, since 2014, and the developer is available online to answer any questions that you may have. His name is Griffin Johnson, representing NDQOZB.
 Thank you. I appreciate that presentation. Right now I will turn to see if the petitioner has any comments to add at this time. No, nothing. Eric has done a great job summarizing. I think it makes sense from day one for the city to approve this measure.
 We graciously petitioned for the approval by the Common Council and look forward to investing in the community and making this project a beautiful addition to your already ever-growing and beautifying community. I've been watching the presentations throughout this meeting and earlier meetings, and there's a lot of great things going on in your city that should be complimented.
 Thank you so much. And for the record, could you please state your name and address? My name is Griffin Johnson. My address is 2556 East Harbor Drive, St. George, Utah. Thank you so much. I'll turn to my colleagues and see if there's any comments. Counselor Warner. Yeah, just a quick question. I was asked this question earlier, and maybe Mr. Palmer, you can answer this for me. Someone asked me earlier.
 we voted on this two weeks ago and why are we again having a second vote on it because of tax abatement under the city ordinances there is involves a two-step process one step is a declaring declaratory resolution which requires uh a declaration essentially by the common council that this is uh
 an area of the city which is in need of development um and then the second step in the process is the confirming resolution which usually comes at the next council meeting but not always and under the uh ordinances uh both resolutions must have a public hearing thank you sir thank you any other questions from Council Councilor Hammond I'm
 I was hearing counselor Thomas Morgan.
 Yes. Could you just, Mr. Glavich, could you define what we mean by in the 20% low to moderate income, how we define low to moderate income? So the city considers low to moderate income to be 80% of the average median income for the area. I apologize, I did not print out my sheet to give you the exact numbers based on the census data.
 um, bureaus numbers, I believe off the top of my head, it was around $42,000, I think for, for, you know, your typical size family household. Thank you. Yeah. Those are tables that can be easily looked up. Yeah. And I'll point out, I mentioned this earlier today, but the developer has committed to making sure that 20% of the units are made available to low and moderate income households. And, um,
 As this was something that the Council had discussed two weeks ago, we ensured that the Memorandum of Agreement, which the developer has signed, includes that provision specifically. Thank you. How soon will they begin working on this? Griffin Council Member Lee had asked basically when you think you'll be starting work on the facility.
 Yeah, so we have been working on demolition of the inside, just gutting it out, clearing out all of the old framing, drywall, mechanical systems, electrical, plumbing, everything. And our appraiser and lender are just waiting for notification that this tax abatement is done so we can get the proper demolition.
 net operating income to show in the numbers and then they will approve the loan and we think we'll have the debt in place by mid to mid December to mid January and then And then we can go full steam and we hope to have everything finished by July of 23
 Thank you. I'd like to add as well that this is part of a larger project that the developer is planning for the property. The tax abatement only covers the existing building. The hope is that the developer will also build townhouses on the property. Nice. See if I have any of my colleagues online who would like to ask a question or comment. If you see any hands up, Clark Jones. I don't see any as of yet.
 Thank you. With that said, I'll turn to the public to see if there's anyone in the virtual audience who wish to speak in favor of Resolution 22-58. There's no one expressing interest to speak in favor of Resolution 22-58. The same said, is there anyone in the virtual audience wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one in the virtual audience that's expressing interest to speak in opposition as well.
 Thank you. With that said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to council. What's your pleasure? Make a motion to approve resolution number 2258. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2258 has been adopted. Now we'll move on to bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you give bill 7422 a first reading?
 7422 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 505 Ireland Road 4412 Fellow Street and 4422 Fellow Street Councilman in District Number 5 in the City of South Bend Indiana. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Thank you.
 May I have a motion to send bill 7422 to zoning and annexation for public and public hearing and third reading on January 9th, 2023. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council member Wax. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council member Hammond. Council member Hammond. Council member Hammond. Vice president Naskowski. Aye. Council member Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. 7 ayes. Thank you. Will you please give Bill 7522 a first reading. 7522. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting an investment policy for the City of South Bend, Indiana for calendar year 2023.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7522 to personal and finance and for public hearing and third reading on December 12, 2022. So moved. Second. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye.
 Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Will you give Bill 7622 a first reading, please? 7622, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2022 of $840,000,
 from the General Fund 101 968,222 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 201 135,000 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund number 202 25,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund number 220
 $2,300,000 from the Central Services Fund number 222. $294,000 from the Liability Insurance Fund number 226. $226,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund number 266.
 $875,000 from the Solid Waste Operations Fund, number 610. $210,000 from the Water Works Operations Fund, number 620. $224,165 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund, number 641. $550,000 from the Century Center Operations Fund, number 670.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7622 to Person on Finance and for public hearing and third reading on December 12, 2022. Second. Point of order. Was your motion to send it to? Yes. I'm sorry. What day was it? To move it to Person on Finance, public hearing and third reading on 12-12. Okay. So moved. Second. So moved. All right.
 DIRECTOR HERSEY- It's been moved and seconded. DIRECTOR HAMMOND- Thank you. It has been moved and seconded again. Clerk Jones would you call the roll please. DIRECTOR RANKIN. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. DIRECTOR MACK. Councilmember Hammond. DIRECTOR HAMMOND. Vice President Nieskoski. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Wax. President McBride. DIRECTOR RANKIN. Thank you. Clerk Jones will you please give bill 7722 a first reading.
 77-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2022. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion for Bill 77-22 to be sent to person on finance and for public hearing and third reading on 12-12-2022.
 So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones to roll please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Thank you.
 At this time in unfinished business, I have again just a reminder that our last business meeting for the year is December the 12th. Also, we are currently working on the interviews for the second interview for council, an executive session hopefully for the second week in December. Background checks have been done and completed, so we will be moving forward with
 That by the end of the year and hopefully please check your emails. Get back with Bianca so we can contact the interviewees to schedule a time for us the second week in December and Clerk Jones will also get in contact with your office regarding the deadline again because of the holidays for the
 And I see Councilor Davis has his hand up. Councilor Davis? Sure. I just wanted to thank the Topman Common Council and President McBride for Heroes Camp. They sent me back a message that said thank you for the donation of water over to their organization. And so I wanted to
 Get that message across. Thank you. I appreciate it. And thank you for reaching out. And we were glad to help to donate a skid of water to Harold's camp. So thank you for asking for us to do so. Is there any new business? Attorney Palmer, am I forgetting something? The organizational meeting.
 Thank you. The organizational meeting. Let's be mindful of the organizational meeting and to have your committee reports ready. We will have the organizational meeting on Tuesday, January 3rd at five o'clock.
 here in the Council informal room. It shouldn't take long. We only had a small window of either having it on Monday, right after the first holiday of the year, or Tuesday at the latest. And most of the Council have responded that they'd rather have it Tuesday, January 3rd, at five o'clock. So it will be here in the Council informal room on January the 3rd.
 At this time, I would open it up to the privilege of the floor. Clerk Jones, do you see anyone wishing to speak? I don't see anyone from the virtual audience. Thank you so much. With that being said, we stand adjourned.