chat. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. In addition, for citizens that wish to speak during the
 Please insert into the following into the chat and the council president will call on you during the relevant time for public input. Insert your name and your address and you will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you, Sir. Jaws due to the executive order.
 by Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the South Bend Common Council meeting will be legally held by way of virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams applications. At this time, our invocation will be given by Councilmember Henry Davis if he is online at this time. Councilmember Davis? Yes, I'm here. Sorry. Okay, thank you so much. No problem.
 Heavenly Father, we would like to ask for your guidance and your thoughts over this particular council meeting. We ask that we leave and also engage with the mind of godliness, but also with the mind and the order of what we set out to do and why we campaign to be on this particular council. We thank you for understanding. We thank you for mercy. We thank you for grace. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
 Thank you for that invocation. Mrs. Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee? Present. Council Member Davis? Present. Vice President McBride? Present. Council Member Warner? Here. Council Member Neskoski? Present. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Present. Council Member Hammond? Present. President White? Present. Thank you.
 Eight present. Thank you. Prior to going to the report from the subcommittee on minutes, I would ask for a moment of silence in honor of the late attorney Tom Brodin, who was a champion for civil rights and the rights of others, who is the father of Judge John Brodin and our former councilwoman, Jo Brodin, at this time. A moment of silence.
 in honor of who he was and in honor of his passing as well. Thank you so much. We'll now move to the report from the subcommittee on minutes.
 Report of subcommittee on minutes to the Common Council of the City of South Bend. The subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the October 26th and November 9th, 2020 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion to accept the subcommittee minutes on as we have received. So moved.
 Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee. Council Member Davis. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond? Aye. President White? Aye. Aye. Thank you. The report from the subcommittee on minutes have been received and approved. There is no special business. I would like to make an announcement for those of the public who are waiting to hear and to speak to Bill 57-20. This bill will be continued indefinitely as requested by the sponsor.
 So we'll now move to reports from city officers. We have an update from our mayor, Mayor James Mueller. After his presentation, council members, you will have the opportunity to ask at least two questions. Thank you, President White, and good evening, council members. Appreciate the invitation to give an update on a few things. Obviously, the most important
 The thing on everyone's mind in the last couple of weeks is the rise of COVID-19 cases where we had been doing fairly well keeping it contained and the spread from accelerating until late September. And that acceleration has continued, although recent days shows some ability of
 of us to contain it from just completely continuing out of control. But even if the case is plateaued at the current rate, which is in our county about 100 per 100,000 people, if we maintain that rate for the next three months, a third to half of our population in the county would become infected over the next three months.
 So it's we're not at a good level, but it's at least a good sign that for now we've stopped the ascent in the number of cases per 100,000. We are, of course, concerned with the cases already built in. There's a lag between new cases and hospitalization. So even even if they dropped cases drop substantially over the next week,
 the buildup that's been happening will likely lead to an increase of hospitalizations over the next coming weeks. And then, of course, the Thanksgiving holiday has health experts very concerned about what will happen to the spread as people,
 Contemplate gathering and you know the advice from our health officials locally and those nationally is if you know is basically please protect the ones you love and do not gather
 with anyone outside your household for Thanksgiving. So if you're already living together in a household, certainly that's good to celebrate the holiday, but try to avoid indoor gatherings, even with masks six feet, prolonged exposure indoors is not sufficient to keep your loved ones safe.
 And this all comes as, you know, there are positive news about a couple of vaccines that are 90 and 95 percent effective and hope that within the coming months we'll start to see those deployed. So we're looking toward the, we can kind of see the light at the end of the tunnel on this pandemic.
 This current wave is expected to last through January, maybe into February. But next spring, there'll be some dark days ahead here. But next spring, we should be getting out of this wave and hopefully vaccines will be available, at least in part.
 And then, you know, by summer, next fall, we could be closer to what we all know is normal. And so we've just got to not let this get out of control over the next couple months. It's already out of control, but we just really need to do double our efforts to contain it. And that means some sacrifices here during the holiday times where, you know,
 We love to gather and be with our family and friends, but it's not the time to do so. It's not safe to do so.
 And this resurgence of the virus, as well as some waning impacts of the CARES Act from the federal government has led to a stalling of our economic recovery. So the recovery was robust, it was quick, and things were looking good until September, October, and that stalled. And we know that folks are in a lot of financial
 uncertainty and facing a lot of burdens in the days ahead. We did, on the CARES Act note, we did receive our reimbursement from the state, the 3.3 that was allocated to cities. Basically, the Secretary of Treasury Mnuchin changed the rules in September where we could get reimbursement.
 safety expenditures, whether they were budgeted or not, going into 2020. And the Indiana State Finance Authority
 also approved that and actually encouraged us to receive the reimbursement through public safety expenditures rather than these other programs. So what had been a very onerous process of proving to the IFA of what expenses were eligible, and they had also placed additional restrictions on municipalities in terms of what qualified, including economic development projects or programs. So-
 This is good news. The money is in the bank, but that changes some of the ways we were accounting. Most of these will be cleared up as much as possible. It's very confusing when our controller, Dan Parker, does the end-of-year cleanup with the fourth quarter bills that are on first reading tonight. The other piece is...
 Part of the CARES Act where we received a substantial amount of funding was through the federal funds, and the one that was outstanding was the third installment of the Community Development Block Grant. And so we're moving on releasing an additional $485,000, which was that full distribution, and they had $850,000.
 They had not restricted it, but strongly encouraged it to go toward rental and utility assistance. And so that's the plan to deploy this last installment of nearly half a million dollars toward additional rent and utility assistance. With the city bills as a utility provider, we have about 4,500 accounts at high or medium risk, which means that they are 60%
 days are over past due and there's about 300 additional accounts each month that are moving into the high risk, which is over 90 days. And this leads to about $165,000 per month of collections that we're not able to make. And the aggregate by the beginning of 2021 is looking to be close to $2 million.
 There is a bill on first reading an ordinance to increase the customer assistance program, and that's looking to increase that help to the lower income households that are falling behind by 50% increase on the benefit that was approved last year. And this is in recognition that folks are falling farther behind, and also, you know,
 what the economists project as the K-shaped recovery, where those households making, you know, above the median income are doing okay, and the households doing below are getting hit more and more. And so,
 That bill is looking to expand the program, one, to help address this issue, and also to assist in collecting because, you know, we have to be able to fund our different utilities, and we can't squeeze people who don't have money to pay for the things we need.
 So that's, you know, that's under, I think, first reading tonight. So that's coming up. And then going into the first quarter of 2021, we will look to bring a full utilities plan that includes how do we move past the uncollected debt, the issues of folks' ability to pay, as well as our needs with the various utilities.
 various parts of our utilities. And as you know, there's also a bill that's coming up here to provide some bridge financing for our solid waste team that's been needing some sort of longer-term solution for over a year now, but this was not the time during the pandemic to take those longer-term actions. So, there will be some
 some shorter term financing coming here in the next couple weeks to make sure we bridge until we have a longer term solution.
 First quarter 2021, we'll work on a full plan to figure out how do we pay for the things we have to pay for in our utilities and solid waste, while in recognition that a lot of our folks are still hurting and probably will, even if Congress does act, will still be hurting then as well.
 The other news is restaurants with the weather turning are struggling. There was a survey in late August that National Restaurant Association found two in five restaurants in Indiana will likely be out of business within the next six months without improved economic conditions or further government assistance.
 And so the team is working on some limited innovation grants and that I believe the funding for that will be included in the COVID-19 response cleanup upcoming. But, you know, that's not going to be that's enough to help.
 Little shot in the arm, but what's really going to be needed is Congress to step up both on unemployment insurance to keep our workers who are out of work afloat, as well as small business assistance to help our businesses, especially those in the hospitality industry like restaurants.
 to be able to weather the storm and make it to the day where we're past this and we have a vaccine and we get back to closer to normal. So that's, so if Congress doesn't step, you know, we, there's really contemplating the idea that Congress won't step up. They just have to. But, you know, we'll keep monitoring and we want to work and help our small businesses as best we can.
 so that leads to uh the emergency shelter which i know uh council was looking to get uh an update on and so the the city funded weather amnesty is is the first component and that'll run through april uh the end of april 2021 as in past years with budgeted city funds
 And this year, the change will be COVID-19 restrictions and protocols in place. And so that leads to about being able to house about 30 to 50 at the Salvation Army building, which is administered by Hope Ministries, and then 25 sheltered at the Center for the Homeless. And other organizations are stepping up this year to provide additional options, given the pandemic and the protocols that are required.
 Then the county undertook a motels program to build off of the program established by Our Lady of the Road anonymous donors. The county is funding rooms at three area motels, as well as Our Lady of the Road's outreach workers and food delivery costs for six months. And the estimated costs that the county are covering for this program from October 2020 to March 2021,
 through the end of March 2021 is $570,143. And then as part of this, Oaklawn had come with a proposal for wraparound services and for about 150 individuals. And this is meant for both those folks that are taking advantage of weather amnesty as well as the county's motels program. And this will run,
 through the end of weather amnesty, so seven months through April. And the funding utilized for this was the second COVID distribution of the Federal Emergency Service Grant Fund. And it was $413,000 for the seven months.
 And this is budgeted for seven coaches, three case managers, and a half-time coordinator. And their role is to get insurance, Medicaid, and any other form of support in place for an individual, as most of these individuals do not have that in place.
 And then once these case managers get individuals their support in place, then they can be moved to the existing Oak Lawn case managers. As it is without this program, the existing case managers aren't able to collect for these types of pre-services to get their support in place.
 And so it ends May 1st, but if individuals have agreed to and are in Oak Lawn's psychiatric or addiction treatment, they can continue on with case management.
 And then finally, as you know, and Council's been a good participant and leader in our homeless implementation group, the three subgroups, as well as the full group, are working to finalize recommended steps by the end of the year, and we'll have more to report when they do so. So with that, I'll turn it over to any questions Council may have.
 Thank you, Mayor Mueller. I'll now turn it over to council members. If you please raise your hand if you have questions that you would like to ask of the mayor based on his presentation, his update. Council members, do you have any questions or comments? Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, President White. I don't have a question, just a comment.
 Thank you, Mayor Mueller, for being with us this evening and for your update. I want to just thank you in particular for the update on additional rental assistance. I know you and I had talked about that over a month ago, anticipating the end of the year and how dark the first quarter, the beginning of the year was.
 we'll look and you're hoping to be able to receive and appropriate those funds. And I'm just I'm just glad to hear that we'll be able to have additional rental assistance available for our residents. Thank you. Thank you as well. Councilwoman Laurie Hammond. Good evening, Mayor. I also do not have a question. I just wanted to thank you and your
 counterparts in the city for moving so quickly and getting the wraparound service money to the people in the motels for now. I'm always on that city county meeting every other week and those that are working with the homeless in that program say that this has made a significant impact very
 very positive impact. So I just wanted to thank you very much for moving on that so quickly. Thank you, that's great to hear. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. I see one hand up, but I cannot tell who that person is or is that a hand that was raised? And I want to make sure council members, do you have any questions or would like to- It's my hand. I'm sorry, Councilman Henry Davis? Yes. Okay, please.
 Kind of like turn around just a little bit or maybe to make a U-turn. I know we're talking about dollars and we're talking about revenue and the lack of or the slowing of revenue because of the pandemic. But I want to start this conversation now since we're turning over the year here. So I think it will be a credit to us, even our public safety department, to begin to talk about how do we support our dispatchers at a higher level?
 We rarely talk about dispatchers when we talk about public safety. I know for a fact before I get to Officer A or Firefighter A,
 I have to talk to the dispatcher first. And so I think that, you know, at some point in time, very soon, actually, you know, obviously when the year turns over, I really want us to begin to talk about how we can support them at a higher level. We're going to pay our officers at a higher level. I certainly believe that we should have the opportunity to support the dispatchers at a higher level as well. Thank you so much, Councilman Davis. Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for all of the hard work you've done in your first year as mayor. Probably wasn't what you expected, but we certainly appreciate you being in the office and getting some things done. A quick question for business owners who are struggling based on COVID. What resources are available now?
 to them. There's a particular printer in town who's family owned and he's very concerned because, you know, he went from making a lot of money during before the pandemic to just trying to keep the lights on. What opportunities or resources are available for those business owners who are finding themselves struggling? Yeah.
 Yeah, I mean, there's a great need across multiple industries, not just the hospitality. The federal programs were the most substantial in terms of dollars amount. The PPP loans in particular that were forgivable basically gave two and a half to three months of operations.
 to businesses to go through the shutdowns and beyond. So those kind of, if you think of it in timeframe, those kind of ran out in end of June, end of July.
 Then the state has used some of its CARES Act allocation to have various different programs, and we can get a list of those to you so you can share. And then the city has done – we don't have nearly the kind of resources. We didn't receive our CARES Act distribution directly, so we never got the full amount, and the IFA had restricted our ability to use those for economic relief.
 And so we haven't had the same kind of resources, but we did. There was a portion of the second distribution of CDBG dollars that went to
 resiliency grants to small business owners that qualified. And, you know, this isn't a restaurant, but we're looking to do something for restaurant innovation to try to help them innovate and make it through the worst which the winter provides. So I think, so in terms of locally, we don't have a lot of dollars, but you know, I would encourage any business that's struggling to reach out to our team because we are
 this is something that's front of mind that how do we support our economic recovery how do we support our small businesses through this difficult time and you know if nothing else we can you know if we don't have the resources we are in conversations with with leaders at higher levels that we can highlight needs and and hopefully get programs to support our businesses not just here but across the state or across the country so i think
 Please reach out. And so we'll get that list to you and then encourage folks to reach out to our team to see what how we might be able to help. Who would be that contact person for the city that for us to reach for businesses to reach out to? I put Dan Buckenmeyer, director of business development, you know, and also I forgot to mention that or.
 Our Director of Community Investment started a week ago today. So Santiago Garces is acting and current in the role of Executive Director of Community Investment. So also, Council Members, feel free to reach out to him as well to get a rundown on what's going on. Thank you. I see Councilman Troy Warner, followed by Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski.
 Thank you, President White. So in that crystal ball, Mr. Mayor, that you have and some of those higher up contacts, I know you alluded to it and we've talked about it before, but really for a lot of these businesses, they're going to need kind of some kind of large assistance that's got to come from the federal government. We just don't have the funds to do it. Any kind of
 guesses or a crystal ball you can gaze into to tell us when we might see, um, another stimulus and additional funds come down that we can get to these small businesses. Uh, as Pastor Lisa, I, every business I talk to, they're just barely hanging on. They're kind of struggling. Uh, the recent spike has really taken a toll on them.
 Every small business, there's always employees. I know we've probably got tens of thousands of employees in the restaurant business who, you know, they're also just hanging on. They're worried about their jobs. Any thoughts on when we might see that? Well, I mean, we are hopeful that there will be a rush tomorrow.
 with the new administration. I know the new administration is going to push it as a number one priority. And, you know, the House of Representatives, which shares the same party affiliation, will push it with the same urgency. The question always is, is how fast will the Senate act? And then even once it gets passed and enacted, how fast can the funds reach? You know, so there's a few weeks, if you remember from the spring, getting that much money out, it took
 number of weeks to get that out. So I
 I would hope that it would get passed by the end of January, so at least end of February. But, you know, that's an optimistic timeframe. It could get bogged down in Senate discussions. And as we know, businesses needed and individuals on unemployment need that help yesterday. So the idea of waiting another three months for help to arrive is interesting.
 So with that urgency in mind, hopefully the Senate will not cause issues. But we don't know the final makeup of the Senate until the Georgia runoffs. But assuming it's split government and the last time we had a need for a stimulus, it was actually the—
 A little bit. The Democrats controlled the Senate, but I was working in the Senate at that time. And and there was an effort to court. It was, you know, need to get past the filibuster. So it had to be bipartisan, even though and get all of those remaining senators. And so it took it took longer and they didn't get as big of a package.
 as they wanted. And as time shows, it stalled the recovery. The recovery was not as quick. It took many years for the unemployment rate to really drop. And so one of the central issues at stake just 11 years ago was whether to provide aid to states and local governments.
 And as you saw over the summer, that was a sticking point, again, between the Senate and the House and even the president. So I have to imagine that's going to be a sticking point as well as how much of an unemployment, pandemic unemployment benefit to give. Yeah.
 So I Washington is hard to predict. You know, in April or March and April is great. We were all in this together. We had never seen the Senate and Congress and the president, different parties working together. I hope we get back to some level of functioning for the good of the country rather than partisanship and blaming the other side.
 Who knows? There's a hope. I mean, you know, the president-elect is someone who has a history of working across the aisle and also has a history in his previous role as vice president working with the Senate majority leader, if it stays, Mitch McConnell. So we got to remain hopeful because the alternative is...
 There's just the economy continues to be strained and that's not something anyone, regardless of your party or ideology, should accept or tolerate. Thank you. Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, followed by Councilwoman Sharon McBride. Thank you. Thank you, President White. And thank you, Mayor Mueller, for being here tonight for the update on.
 I just wanted to, had a question. The half a million dollars, you said it was CARES Act money, I believe, and you were looking to help assist in applying for rent and utilities, excuse me, assistance for people that are primarily behind? I mean, have you looked at a way where you're identifying people that may be two or three or four months behind
 whether it be through the utility bill and then notifying them that there is assistance and then in fact assisting them. Because I hear that there is a bit of an issue with people applying and then they're getting rejected because of a box they didn't fill out and they got to reapply again. And landlords that have renters that are behind, some of them have renters who just don't want to apply.
 being in their, you know, rental property, but there's assistance out there. So is that what you were referring to and helping them to apply for and assist with these additional $500,000? I mean, I think it would be great if there was a plan we could do that. But are we just looking at, in general, to let people know that the money's available? Yeah. So, I mean, that's the challenge of any program is –
 You want to try to get as many of the dollars to the people that need the dollars because you know We're stressing the need is is likely greater than than the dollar amounts We're just we're contemplating here But then of course there are administrative costs to get the dollars to the folks in human and then in some ways whatever you call Marketing or or how do you make our residents aware? that the program is out there and so I
 You know, primarily we'd be looking at trying to move to what our prior assistance was, but if there were gaps in terms of marketing or getting the information out to residents or help in applications, that's a little tougher, but we could see how we could augment the programs that we've had so far.
 Okay, thank you. And my second question would be in reference to the hospital capacity. Has there been discussion in reference to COVID and the hospital capacity of where we're at and where it looks like we may be going to? So, yeah, I mean, that's a great question. Our health systems are regional. And so, the challenge here is the wave is coming all at once. So, I think
 There was a, I don't want to say complacency, but
 throughout the summer where there were waves that were happening not everywhere all at once, you know, it changed. There was a change of strategies at the state level whether you would build field hospitals or what would you have to do to maintain or to to cover a big wave. And so there had been thought that you could shift around to different regions as different regions, you know, got an explosion of cases. The challenge here is, you
 it's all across the state and then particularly in our region, we're, we're at like a hundred, uh, cases per capita or per a hundred thousand. And, uh, our neighboring County Elkhart is, you know, 40% above that 140 and their health system. We're, we all interrelate with St. Joe hospital, beacon, uh, Southern clinic, all of our health systems are, are, are regional here. So, um,
 So there's no crystal ball. They've already had to shut down a lot of elective procedures, a lot of preventative things, and they are worried that there are going to be emergency calls that are going to be difficult to field.
 because the COVID ward is overflowing. And in some ways, it's already there. The rise of cases that we've already seen is likely to bring the number of hospitalizations up from where we are today. And then if you add on top of that, any additional increase over the next couple weeks due to Thanksgiving or whatever else people are doing, there's a real concern that this is going to get
 this could get has the potential to get very ugly in december thank you thank you councilwoman sharon mcbride thank you uh thank you mayor for your presentation i just had a question uh outside of your uh presentation to ask if you've heard any formal response from the housing authority regarding the rabbi schumann our request to meet with uh them if you can elaborate
 Sure, yeah, I mean, and thank you for all of you for signing on to that letter to help get more answers for the residents at Rabbi Shulman and the broader community. They did send a letter back from the attorney, and I believe we forwarded that on to counsel, but hopefully we can, if you didn't receive that, we can resend that.
 And they're open to scheduling a conversation with council. And it's just got to, with the holiday and other things, just figure out the right time. One of the things that was cleared up in the response was where we are in the process. And we did not, you know, there was the meeting in the parking lot with the residents of Rabbi Shulman from some members of the housing authority that said you have 30 days to get out.
 And so then, you know, we were looking to get one of the key parts of the letter was asking to get their relocation plan out and make made available to the public. And they did as of when they wrote last week, they did not have a final relocation plan. And the clock to move residents doesn't start ticking until that is finalized and approved by HUD. And then there's a counseling meeting that they have with every resident there.
 So that's 60. So there's at least 60 days from whenever they get form final approval from HUD on the relocation plan. So that's the you know, there should be there will be efforts with every resident to find a spot. And they're awaiting HUD to see what you know, what kind of vouchers, what kind of.
 options that will be available to the residents. So hopefully we'll hear back soon to know what is the, you know, what's the future for those residents, what can we expect, and then we can go from there on what as a city we'd like to see. Thank you. I'll give up my time.
 Thank you. Seeing no other hands, I would like to thank the Mayor for his comprehensive report and also the items that you shared with us. Those were topics in which the Council members had requested additional information. I do believe that your update has been very well received and very much needed. So I thank you for the update coming from you as Mayor of the City of South Bend.
 I will now ask for a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. It's been moved and seconded. All those in favor of the motion will now go to roll call. Clerk Johnson, please call the roll. Yes. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Neskoski? Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Eight ayes.
 Thank you. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that the bills that would be given a second reading and public hearing have been first given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed.
 We'll start with Bill 5720. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5720 a second reading? 5720. Councilwoman Miscoske, you would need to have Bill 55-20. Is that what you're reading now? 55-20?
 Yes. Okay. Yeah, I'm sorry. It is 55-20. 55-20. No, I'm sorry. No problem. Okay. There's a hand up. I don't know who this hand is.
 Is Mr. Nussbaum? Yes, we're getting ready. He may have called the same thing. So we're going to go back to Committee of the Whole and Councilwoman Sheila Nuskoski will ask the clerk to read Bill 55-20.
 Thank you for the clarification. My apologies, Clerk Jones. No problem. Please give Bill 5520 a second reading. Yes. 5520, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, to vacate the following described property.
 the first east-west alley between St. Vincent Street and Howard Street from St. Louis Boulevard to First North South Alley, Councilmanic District 4, South Bend, Indiana, 46617. Thank you. And there was a committee on the chair of Public Works and Property Vacation, and that was sent to council, full council with a no recommendation. So is the petitioner present?
 Please state your name and address for the record. Yes, I am Richard