Good evening. I would like to call Monday, December 9th, 2024 meeting to order. Dr. Dorado, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for council members and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a certain agenda item or during privilege of the floor meeting,
 Please submit your requests in the chat. Directions to do so will be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name, address, and topic you are speaking on as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time for public input.
 My name is full name and I live at address and I would like to speak on for or against agenda item. You will then be given 5 minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, we will call the roll. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I have to give the pledge the invocation.
 Pastor, we have Alexander Su here from Ansari. Thank you, Institute for Global Engagement with Religion. Welcome and thank you so much for being here. Thank you, members of the South Bend Common Council. Thank you, Mr. James Luck, for allowing me the opportunity to offer the invocation tonight. As assistant teaching professor at the Ansari Institute for Global Engagement with Religion at the Keough School of Global Affairs up the road at Notre Dame,
 I encourage our students to step outside of the Notre Dame bubble to engage with the other, whether they are madrasa scholars in Pakistan, Shinto agricultural aid workers in Myanmar, Buddhist recycling volunteers of Shanghai, or friendly bureaucrats of the fourth largest metropolitan statistical area in Indiana. One of my essay prompts has students imagine that they might offer policy advice to the city of South Bend on matters of religious tolerance,
 recognition, and cooperation. So it was with great joy that I received my email invitation from Mr. Luck, my former student, to offer tonight's invocation. May your hearings and resolutions on property vacations, budget transfers, and salary ordinances be guided by the spirit of interdependence, mutual understanding, and collective flourishing. Our wisdom derives from multiple hearths. The words of our holy scriptures are,
 the lively experiments of our elders, the urgent voices of our communities. Let us draw deeply from our own sources of wisdom and love as we commence the great work of listening, discerning, and acting in concert. Thank you. To the Republic, which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Toronto, would you please call the roll? President McBride. Present. Vice President Naskowski. Present.
 Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember White. Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Present. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Present. All nine councilmembers present. Thank you. At this time, we will have the report from Subcommittee on Minutes for the November 25, 2024 meeting. Clerk Toronto.
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the November 25, 2024 meeting of the Council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion regarding subcommittee on minutes for November 25th. Motion to approve. Second. We'll move and second it. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. If you are here for Bill 6424, that has been tabled until our June 2025 meeting. That's for the alley vacation at 512 South Walnut Street. Thank you. With that, I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into the committee of the whole. So moved. Been moved.
 It's been moved and seconded by Councilor White. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion's carried. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meetings where bills are given a second reading and public hearing.
 I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance,
 A report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. Again, Bill 6424 has been tabled. Clerk Toronto, I'd like to make a motion to accept the substitute for Bill 66-24. So moved. Second. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Motion passes.
 Clerk Toronto, would you please give Substitute Bill 66-24 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2024. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is, Chair. Substitute Bill 6624 was heard in committee today and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. We see that the petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Yes, Kyle Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor. Substitute bill, bill number 66-24, authorizes budget transfers within various funds. This substitute bill was submitted due to additional transfers being submitted after the first reading.
 So with this bill, just a couple items, $200,000 budget transfer within the fire department, EMS division to cover capital lease purchases and repair and maintenance expenses. And fund 279, innovation and technology, $130,000 budget transfer to cover supplies and equipment expenditures. And then fund 711, the self-funded employee benefits.
 $3,000, no, $225,806 budget transfer to cover expenses related to our wellness provider. We obviously have a lot of budget transfers in this bill, so feel free to ask. We'd be happy to answer any additional questions. All right. Council members, do we have any questions? I know we talked about it in committee. Okay.
 And if there is no other questions, I now will take this to the public hearing. Clerk Torado, is anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 66-24? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition.
 Okay, at this point, the public hearing for Substitute Bill 66-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. Motion to send Substitute Bill 66-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Dostoevsky. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 6624 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'd like to make a motion to accept the substitute bill for 67-24. So moved. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto. Clerk Toronto. Would you please? Well, no.
 Make a motion. It's the food. I'll accept the substitute bill. Yeah. It's been a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carries. Sorry. Now, Clerk Dorado, would you please give Substitute Bill 6724 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city service operations for the year 2024 of $500,000 from the general fund number 101, $29,000.
 532 from the Parks and Recreation Fund number 201, 270,000 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund number 202, 200,000 from the Lost Recovery Fund number 227, 700,000 from the Fire Department Capital Fund number 287, 40,000 from the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund number 408,
 1,127,792 from the council that
 Consolidated building fund number 600, 100,000 from the Water Works Operations Fund number 620, 120,000 from the Sewage Works Operation Fund number 641, 600,000 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund number 642, and 300,000 from the Police Pension Fund number 702.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This Substitute Bill 6824 was heard, personal and finance, this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. That was 6724. Yes, 6724. All right. Conditioner, we ask that you state your name and address and share those key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Kai Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor. Substitute bill 6724, appropriates additional funding for various funds. We submitted the substitute bill due to we advertised a higher amount in the general fund of about $500,000 to allow for any additional
 or last minute additional appropriations that would come in after the first reading. Those did not happen. So with that, we reduced the overall appropriation amount by that 500,000. So it was once 3.9 million. Now it's at 3.47 million. And the appropriations that we advertised for the general fund are no longer in the bill.
 All right. Thank you very much. I'll just highlight a few things here. Just fire department capital fund to 87, $700,000 appropriation to for the purchase of new fire trucks. This additional appropriation is due to higher than budgeted costs, higher than budget expenses that we expected. So therefore we needed appropriate additional spending here.
 In Fund 600, the Building Department, $1,127,792 appropriation to pay the city and the county. The profit split from the building department revenues for the year. And that is per the interlocal agreement between the city and the county.
 And then with Form 4702, police pension, $300,000 appropriation to cover costs related to the 1925 pension plan. And those expenses will be reimbursed to the city from the state. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? Again, we talked a lot about all of this in committee. We will now go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 6724?
 I do not see anyone in person or online that wishes to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Substitute Bill 67-24 is now closed. I will now enter into motion.
 Make a motion to send substitute bill 6724 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk, Toronto Police, call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Vice President McBride.
 Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Substitute Bill 67-24. Be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Tirado, please give Bill 68-24 a second reading.
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 11155-24, which fixed the maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 to correct the wage tables for the Water Works Construction and Maintenance Workgroup and adjust timing of residency incentive payment.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is. Again, this was heard, Bill 6824, in Personnel and Finance this afternoon, and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. Petitioner, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us the key points regarding the bill that's before us. Kyle Willis, City Controller, offices on 12th floor. Bill 68-24, this is to correct...
 uh positions in the waterworks uh construction of maintenance groups that was omitted from the salary ordinance uh they are those positions are uh included in the team first collective bargaining agreement we're just now we're now uh making sure adjust amending the ordinance to reflect those positions that didn't make it in originally um and also to uh
 change the residency incentive payment language. It states in the originally stated in the ordinance that the residency payment would be made in January. And we are changing that to reflect the payment that's due or that's made in December. In committee, city attorney Jenna Thoreau explained or went through those positions that were omitted. And we're just now today, we want to get those included in the salary ordinance for the Teamsters. All right.
 All right, council members, do you have any questions for the petitioner? If not, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Torado, is anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 68-24? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 68-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion.
 I'd like to move that we send Bill 68-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Aye.
 All right. Bill 6824 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Tirado, would you please give Bill 69-24 a second reading?
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10980-23, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for the calendar year 2024 in conformity with ordinance number 10863-22 to amend the timing of the city residency incentive at section 2-21 of that ordinance.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This bill was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the committee of the whole. Mr. Chair, I'd like to make a motion to hear 69-24 and 70-24 jointly. It's the same topic and the same change made to both ordinances. Second. There's been a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion passes. All right.
 I ask that you state your name and address for the record. He's got to read both the buildings. 7024. 7024. 7024. Clerk Dorado, please give 7024 also a second reading. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Wait a minute, sorry. 7024. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number
 1-0978-23, which fixes maximum salary and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2024 to adjust timing of residency incentive payment. All right.
 okay well the city controller offices on the 12th floor as we stated earlier bill 69-24 and build bill number that bill number 70-24 both are just changing the language in each salary ordinance to reflect the timing of the residency payment from january to december all right uh council members do you have any questions
 If not, we'll now go to the public portion. Clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 69-24 and 70-24? I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak on either bill. Wishing to speak in favor of each bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone from the public or online. Would she speak in opposition of either bill? At this point, the public hearing on Bill 69-24 and 70-24 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion for 69-24. Move to send Bill 69-24 to the whole council with a favorable visit recommendation. Second.
 There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Dorado, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Aye.
 Bill 69-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Now, I would like to accept a motion for Bill 70-24. Make a motion to send 70-24 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Dorado, please call the roll. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 70-24 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Dorado, would you please give Bill 71-24 a second reading.
 Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 11160-24, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2025 to make position changes in venue, parks, and arts and adjust timing of residency incentive payment.
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is. Again, this was heard in personal and finance this afternoon and was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. Thank you. Petitioner, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Hi, Willis, City Controller, offices on the 12th floor. Proposal, not proposal, amendments made to non-bargaining salary ordinance here, bill number 71-24. All right.
 um residency residency payment language change from january to december and i'll i just i have several here for those that wouldn't hear the committee there's several changes here um next will be a title change from the four-man five to golf hospitality events manager that's in the venue parks and arts division uh venue parts and art department in their golf division
 for the chief development and marketing officer in the venue parts and arts department, decreasing the salary cap from $113,308 to $110,622 to be in line with the other chief's positions in VPA. Also, we were removing the deputy director position from VPA, a title change for the director of development to director of development and special events
 with the salary cap of $84,003 for 2025. And then we are also removing the director of experience position. Also discuss as we were in committee, explain that these changes do not affect the approved budget that we approved back in October. These are more administrative changes to update the salary ordinance to where everything is matching what's in the budget and budget correctly.
 All right. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions? I just want to not really question, but I really appreciate that clarification. That was an important one in committee that these other than the decrease in the cap for the chief development marketing officer, that the amounts in the other positions were the amounts that were approved and those aren't increases. Thank you. All right. If no other council members have any questions.
 Um, we'll now go to public hearing portion. Uh, clerk Toronto, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 71-24? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition?
 I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. At this point, the public hearing portion on Bill 7124 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I'll make a motion to send Bill 7124 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Toronto, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 All right. Bill 7124 will be sent to the full council with the favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. Second. It's been moved and second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? Motion carries.
 The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were just heard in the committee of the whole. Clerk Tirado, will you please give substitute bill 6624 a third reading?
 Third, reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of Southland, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of Southland, Indiana, for the year 2024. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6624? Yes. Bill 6624 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I now entertain a motion regarding substitute Bill 6624. Move for passage. Second. Second. Move and second. Clerk Tirado, the roll.
 Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 6624 has been adopted. Clerk Tirado, will you please give substitute Bill 6724 a third reading.
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2024 of $500,000 from the general fund number 101, $29,532 from the Parks and Recreation Act.
 Fund number 201, $270,000 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund number 202, $200,000 from the Lost Recovery Fund number 227, $700,000 from the Fire Department Capital Fund number 287, $40,000 from the Local Income Tax Economic Development Fund number 408,
 $1,127,792 from the Consolidated Building Fund number 600, $100,000 from the Water Works Operations Fund number 620, $120,000 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund number 641,
 $600,000 from the Sewage Works Capital Fund number 642 and $300,000 from the Police Pension Fund number 702. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 6724? Yes, Substitute Bill 6724 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full counsel with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion. Move for passage. Move for passage.
 Second. I move and second it. Clerk of Toronto, the roll please. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Bowdoin-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Aye. Just for the record. Thank you.
 Thank you. Clerk Toronto, will you give Bill 6824 a third reading? Third reading of an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 11155-24, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2025, 2026, 2027, and 2028 to correct the wage tables for
 for the Water Works Construction and Maintenance Work Group and adjust timing of residency incentive payment. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6824? Yes, Bill 6824 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6824. Move for passage. Second. Moving second. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Second.
 Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine aye. Thank you. Bill 6824 has been adopted. Clerk Tuato, will you please give Bill 6924 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending ordinance number 10980-23, which fixed maximum wages of Teamster employees for calendar year 2024 in conformity with ordinance number 10863-22 to amend the timing of the city residence incentive at section 2-1 of that ordinance.
 Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 6924? Yes, 6924 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I'd like to entertain a motion. Move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council Member White. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. 69-24 has been adopted. Dr. Rotter, will you please give Bill 70-24 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana. Amending Ordinance Number 10978-23.
 which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2024 to adjust timing of residency incentive payment. Thank you. Council, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 70-24? Yes. Bill 70-24 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 70-24. Move for passage. Yes.
 I move in second clerk Toronto the roll please. Council member Warner. Aye. Council member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council member Lee. Aye. Council member White. Aye. Council member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Council member Thomas Morgan. Council member Dr. Davis. Aye. Vice president Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 70-24 has been adopted.
 Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 7124 a third reading? Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Ordinance Number 11160-24, which fixes maximum salaries and wages of appointed officers and non-bargaining employees of executive departments of the City of South Bend for calendar year 2025 to make position changes in venue, public, and public.
 parks and arts, and adjust timing of residency incentive payment. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 7124? Yes. Bill 7124 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would like to make a motion. Move for passage. Second. Move and second it. Clerk to rattle the roll, please. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye.
 Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Dr. Davis. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 7124 has been adopted. Dr. Dorado, will you please give Resolution 2442 a reading?
 A resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designates certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 530 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of a two-year vacant building tax abatement for Empower Herd Development, LLC.
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to have Resolution 2443 also read, heard together. Second. The move in second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Toronto, will you please give Resolution 2443 a reading?
 A resolution confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 530 South Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46601, an economic revalidation area for purposes of an eight-year real property tax abatement for Empower Herd Development, LLC. Thank you. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Madam President, Resolution 2442 and 2443 both come to the Council with favorable recommendations and follow a passage of the confirming or the designating resolutions from two weeks ago. Thank you. Thank you so much. Petitioner, welcome.
 Good evening, Council. Joseph Molnar, Assistant Director of Growth and Opportunity with offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. As Council Member Warner just said, before you are two resolutions, both of them confirming resolutions for a project that you heard two weeks ago where two designating resolutions were approved, one for a two-year vacant building tax abatement and one for an eight-year real property tax abatement.
 Both concerned property located at 530 South Michigan Street on the south edge of downtown, right on the edge of the Monroe Park neighborhood.
 The building is the former Hope Rescue Building. On the left, you can see it in its current state. The picture on the right, you can see the Hope Building in the foreground of the picture. Further away in the picture, that's actually the Monarch Building, which is also receiving a renovation, and it's a partnership. Both these buildings are being renovated in a partnership with EmpowerHer as well as HerStoric.
 Empower Her Development is focused on investing in the Monroe Park neighborhood and renovating and saving this building. With that, their project qualifies for two tax abatements, the first one being a vacant building tax abatement for two years and the second one being a mixed-use development tax abatement for eight years.
 The building dates to 1923, so over a century old. The first phase of the renovation includes renovating the building to become a shared commercial kitchen space, which the developer can speak more of, which also consists of a food market. Phase two would be renovating the remaining square footage for a boutique hotel, with a total private investment of a little over $1.6 million dollars.
 and hiring at least eight new full-time employees and retaining three in the space. Getting into the actual numbers of the tax abatement for the vacant building tax abatement, it would lower the current estimated taxes over the next two years from about $21,000 to about $10,000. For the mixed-use development, after the improvements were made to the building, we believe that estimated annual taxes would be about $39,000 a year.
 During that eight-year abatement time period, the total estimated taxes that would be due would be $313,000 and the taxes abated, if this would be approved, would be around $93,000. After a total of 10-year period, if there was no project and there was no abatement, this property would generate about $106,000 even though.
 Staff believe the building might not last another 10 years if current investments are not made into the building. However, if the abatement is approved and the project would go forward as planned, you'd be seeing about $297,000 in taxes generated, so almost a threefold increase.
 The total project, consisting both with the Monarch Building on the left and the Hope Building on the right, is envisioned to see a significant increase in investment in the Michigan Street corridor on the south edge of downtown, with a planned community space in between the two buildings. Jasmine Bradley from EmpowerHer is here as well and can speak to you. Thank you. Welcome back.
 Hello, Jasmine Bradley, address 2201 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Indiana. So good evening. Yes, this is the building project that is presented and will become a shared commercial kitchen, as well as a collective food hub and farmers market space project.
 The root and the cause of this is to address food insecurities and to be a space where it can be an affordable space for people from the community who can pay in SNAP and WIC and other things, and also an affordable space for entrepreneurs to be able to grow their food business, as well as education piece to educate youth and young adults in food, culinary and entrepreneurship. Okay.
 Thank you. Council, do you have any questions of the petitioner or the developer?
 Councilor Tomas-Morgan. Yes, thank you very much. This is an exciting project. I asked this in committee of the presenter, but we just wanted to ask you if you could share the timeline for development. Yes. We did apply for the Ready Grant, and so the hope is to receive that and be starting this upcoming spring 2025, and then end with the different phases by fall of 2027.
 Counselor Lee? That was my question I was going to ask too. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, I will turn to the public. Clerk Tirado? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Same said, anyone wishing to speak in opposition? I do not see anyone in person or online wishing to speak in opposition. Thank you. With that being said, the public portion is now closed. I'll turn back to counsel. Are there any comments?
 just one brief comment wish you luck on the ready grant i know we'll hear about that in the next few weeks and uh uh i know it's kind of a joint application uh a few of you went in and uh uh the mayor shared it with me it was uh exciting i was very impressed by it thank you thank you so much yes i'd like to say um jasmine thank you for bringing more uh work and services to district two
 All right. With that being said, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Resolution 2442. Move for adoption. Second. Moving second. Clerk Toronto, the roll, please. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Enthusiastic aye. Aye. Council Member Lee. Very happy aye. Council Member White. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Elated aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye.
 Council Member Dr. Davis. Associate, aye. Vice President Naskowski. A festive aye. President McBride. The number one aye. The motion's carried. Move for passage 2443. Second. It's been moved and seconded for resolution 2443. Council, Clerk Toronto, the roll please. Council Member Dr. Davis. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye.
 Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Councilmember White. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Still a festive aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2443 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Clerk Toronto, will you please give bill 7424 first reading?
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, establishing a merit board system governing the South Bend Fire Department. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7424, the Health and Public Safety, for public hearing and third reading on January 13, 2025. So moved. So moved. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Council, is there any unassigned business? I do not.
 Councillor Lee? I just, with the young lady leaving, uh,
 A lot of times people criticize about tax abatements. I had the opportunity to go to Clay's Candy, which is over a 100-year-old business that relocated from off of Taylor Street, 20,000 square feet, to over 50,000 square feet over in the first district. And by the assistance of what our city staff and us voting on abatements to be able to help them to do that.
 They are. It is amazing what's happening over there and how how more productive they are. And so I just wanted to let all of the members of the council know that there are people who are very appreciative to the things that we do and we are making a tremendous impact. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Councilor Tomas Morgan.
 Actually, I'm not sure if this is old business or new business, but just two reminders from innovation technology and talking with the chief innovation officer. One was just to remind council members and encourage council members that as you're planning the new year to keep in mind if you haven't.
 toward 311 and shadowed them for a period of time, we are most welcome and invited to do so. So feel free to schedule a time with our 311 director. And then another reminder that those, David Finley had presented on the 2024 community survey. And if anyone wanted a follow-up meeting with him or any questions, just feel free to reach out to him.
 Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing none, I'll turn to new business. The first thing I would like to announce is reminder that this is the last meeting for December 2024. The cancellation meeting of December 20, December 23rd. There's no meeting tonight is the last meeting before the new year. Is there any other new business? And I would turn to the purpose of the floor. Welcome.
 You have three minutes to address the council and not address anything that was discussed on tonight's agenda. Welcome. Please state your name and address for the record. Sue Kessel, 422 Kennedy Drive. Good evening, members of the Common Council and fellow citizens. I stand before you tonight to address the matter that strikes at the very heart of our democracy, the freedom of speech. The First Amendment to the Constitution declares, and I quote,
 Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech or of the press or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for redress of grievances. This cornerstone of our republic guarantees that every voice matters, regardless of whether it sings in harmony or challenges the prevailing chorus.
 Democracy thrives when all citizens, each with unique perspectives, experiences, and concerns, can engage openly with their government. Limiting the time and scope citizens have to express their thoughts does not merely stifle speech. It sends a message that their voices are less important, less valuable, and less welcome. History shows us that dissenting opinions often spark necessary change.
 They shine a light on areas where systems falter and provide ideas for improvement. Silencing or curtailing those voices does not strengthen governance. It weakens it by severing the connection between elected officials and the people they serve. This chamber is not just a place for decision-making. It's a place for listening, collaboration, and growth.
 are not obstacles. They are the lifeblood of a healthy democracy. I urge you to reconsider any actions that would suppress or diminish public input. Instead, embrace the principle that every citizen, regardless of their opinion or standing, has the right to participate fully in this demographic democracy process.
 As a reminder, the council mission statement is to make certain that our city government is always responsive to the needs of our residents and that the betterment of South Bend is always our highest priority. I think that the reading of the statement should be done after the Pledge of Allegiance at each council meeting to keep it top of mind. Thank you. Thank you. Sarah Foster, 1138 College Street.
 Tonight, I am once again asking that Vice President Nizgatsky be held accountable for her assault and attempted battery on Logan Foster following the close of the May 13th council meeting. Responding to a taxpayer who is asking for accountability by raising a fist in their face is unacceptable. Thank you. Good evening. Brendan Crumlish, 1091 Riverside, local businessman with an office at 3215 Sugar Maple Court, South Bend, Florida.
 I'm here tonight as the president of Businesses United 4. We're a corporation representing over 30 South Bend businesses and still growing. We are seeking fairness for the truly homeless in our community, as well as greater fiscal responsibility from our local government. And lastly, fairness and freedom for all media platforms to share and report on the actions of our government. All this is transparent and for the genuine improvement of the city of South Bend.
 I'm speaking tonight concerning the pending bill before this council that redefines the public privilege of the floor at the close of every council meeting. The proposed bill aims to limit the freedoms of the public to redress the council concerning their elected responsibilities. Limiting the number of speakers allowed to discuss a single subject amounts to censorship.
 We live in a republic where freedom of speech is tantamount. Every individual deserves the same opportunity to speak as any other, regardless of their subject.
 privilege of the floor is the one opportunity during each meeting where a citizen has the opportunity to speak to the counsel uninterrupted about whatever they choose the counsel is under no obligation to reply nor is the counsel permitted to interrupt or cross-examine the speaker
 Further, proposed bill appears to restrict and suppress public input and accountability, silencing concerns that may resurface or evolve over time. The proposed limitations and restrictions amount to an assault on the constitutional right to free speech. Please revoke the pending bill modifying the rules of privilege of the floor. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Logan Foster.
 1138 College Street. Tonight, I want to bring attention to the salaries of our elected officials, specifically our Common Council members. South Bend is proud to be the state's fourth most populous city. However, when we look at how our Common Council members are compensated, their salaries fall far below what is paid to their counterparts in smaller cities across Indiana. Currently, South Bend is the fourth most populous city in the United States.
 South Bend Common Council members earn just $21,960 per year. Compare that to Fishers, Hammond, and Gary, where council members earn $35,000 annually. To put this into context further, Bloomington is now introducing legislation to increase their council members' pay to $45,000 annually. These differences are significant and deserve our attention.
 Some cities determine council salaries as a percentage of the mayor's salary, which ensures fairness and consistency. I would like to propose we consider a similar approach here in South Bend. Specifically, we could introduce an ordinance setting council members' salary anywhere from 25 to 35 percent of the mayor's yearly compensation.
 With the mayor currently earning just under $123,000 a year, this would bring council pay to approximately $37,000 a year if we set it at the 30% figure. This figure aligns South Bend with cities like Hammond and Gary, while also respecting the value of the work our council provides. It's important to remember that we have three equal branches of government.
 Yet the current pay for our council members is not reflective of that equality. Our council members are supposed to work hard to represent our city, make decisions that shape our future, and uphold the principles we stand for. But as it currently stands, we are asking our council members to do all of this while earning wages that, frankly, border on poverty levels.
 This is not just a financial issue. This is about how we reflect our values as a city, fairness, equality, and respect for leadership. If we truly believe in those values, then showing fairness and equity must start here in this very room. The council members' compensation should reflect the level of responsibility they hold and the contributions they make to our city and its people. With that.
 I'd like to wish you all a Merry Christmas. Thank you. Hello. My name is Manuel Herbert, and I live on the 500 Black Harris Street. I'm not going to give you my exact address street. I'm here for the purpose of asking you why you postponed the first item on your agenda, or did I misunderstand? The 64-24 item.
 I'm sorry, yeah, 64-24. Yes, sir. That was actually tabled in the committee today. So the person who was requesting that alley vacation, I do not believe was fully informed as to what would happen had that alley been vacated. The biggest thing is he would not have access to his home.
 So in vacating that portion that he wanted to vacate would have gave him no access to park anywhere. So until he was able to...
 be fully engaged and have some alternatives that what could take place to achieve the goal that he wanted. We gave him some time and postponed that to a time where he could hire some surveyors, some legal advice and move forward from there. And that was at the request of the petitioner who asked to vacate his alley. That is not true. How does the alley going to prevent anybody to get into their home or the
 either get an access to their property. I live right on that, on the area. I live right on the west side of the alley that is Warnett, the railroad, the area, and then my house. I'm the one that live that right in the area. However, it was the petitioner that was in committee today that wanted to further explore other options.
 to make sure that this did not hamper the efforts and achieve what he was trying to achieve. And so at his request and after a fully debate on this matter, we agreed to table that till next year. So it is upon you to talk to that person who owns that, if that is your neighbor. There's my neighbor right there. Okay.
 but he's not the one who filed for the alley vacation. President McBride, I believe this is inappropriate for this dialogue at this time. No.
 Well, I think I don't know, just to give them some clarification. I mean, I'm not asking you for any names. No, no. I'm just saying that he's one of my neighbors. Well, yes. Well, hold on one second. Actually, I can turn it over to the parliamentarian because it's appropriate if they weren't here to give them some dialogue. I wasn't in the committee. That's why I'm not able to speak on it. But from what I am gathering, the person who made the request...
 We're making sure that he, whatever he is truly desiring, is not going to hinder his request. So he needs to have further discussion with the city administration and to get some more clarification to make sure that it's not going to impede his access or anyone else's if they are concerned. But so now from this point, you need to go back and speak with your neighbor who actually filed the complaint.
 alley vacation and have further discussion. So it's not that the council was saying no, they're giving him an opportunity to make sure that he brings it back and that he talks to administration and get it right. Because it's not just saying that you can do an alley vacation and then we say yes, it has to be surveyed and different steps taken. So that's what
 The best that we can tell you, you need to speak with him and you can work with him with administration to make sure whatever you all are trying to desire that is done correctly. I understand what you're saying. Okay. But on that area, one corner is the location that is on dispute right now. And the reason that we are, that I am questioning that is because we got a lot of homeless people there. And, uh.
 I'm the one that talked to the city, I don't know, about three weeks ago. I received this letter from the city clerk, Bianca. It says that she was going to have a hearing today. Yes, and after discussion with the petitioner, there was more information that he didn't quite understand and different steps that needed to be taken. So we're still going to address it now. If it's additional information and you're speaking now about the homeless,
 that is a different issue than still getting an alley vacation. So a further discussion could be had with you regarding that. Madam President, may I make a suggestion? Yes. So Mr. Dressel with City Planning was having a discussion with Eduardo Rodriguez, who is that homeowner. What I would suggest is if you give your phone number to the attorney here, we can have Mr. Dressel with City Planning also contact you about that. Okay, if you may, I...
 I've been in the area about 40 years, and the name that you pronounce, I don't know anyone. And I'm not trying to get you in the corner to get the right name. But what I'm saying, I know all the neighbors there. And I don't think any of those individuals or my neighbors will be right against me.
 Against me, basically, well, I'm saying me because I'm the one here. Oh, I think they are with me when I come to talk about you people, but getting that area vacated. We had the problem last year. And believe me, it's not a great. Sir, if look, we you have exceeded your time. If you could give your time.
 name and number to the clerk's office. Matthew would be glad to take it for you right now. And we can have you speak with Chris Dressel with administration. But at this time, being that the petitioner is the one who filed, he is the one that we need to follow up with. If you have other concerns, we can address that as well. But this is not the forum. We can speak briefly. We'll be done with the meeting shortly. So you can also stick around, okay? The only thing I want to add or finish with that,
 The thing is that you are jeopardizing our safety. We are not. There's a different conversation, and I appreciate it. We can have a further conversation in a few moments, okay? And if you can stick around, we can get your information and have another conversation. Yes. But this is just not the setting. I understand. And I'm sorry. I apologize for that. That's okay. No apologies. Email. Yeah, email.
 Clerk Toronto, do you see anyone else wishing to speak at the privilege of the floor? Is there anyone else in person or online that would like to speak under privilege of the floor? At this time, I don't see anyone in person or online. Thank you. With that being said, we stand adjourned. Good night. Thank you so much. Okay, thank you.