Good evening. I would like to call Monday, December 12th, 2022 Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the audience for virtual for.
 Sound quality. We are muting everyone. So if you need to say anything or have any remarks that you want to make during the time to provide input, we ask that you put your name and your address in the chat and directions to do so will be located in the chat. You can provide input during the council meeting.
 bills when they are when it's time to provide input for those bills. Again, put your name and your address in the chat and you will have five minutes to speak. If you are speaking during the privilege of the floor, again, put your name and your address in the chat. And the council president will call on you during that time. During the privilege of the floor, you have three minutes. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, our invocation will be given by Ken Hardy.
 Let us bow our heads in prayer. Most gracious and heavenly God our Father, we thank you Lord for this day. We thank you for your everlasting mercy and your love and your kindness. We thank you Lord for these leaders of this city that sit behind us. We pray that you give them the guidance, give them the patience and the understanding to look out for this great city of South Bend. But most of all Lord, we thank you for these jewels of children that stood before you.
 that in one day my step in this footprints of these city leaders right today. We pray that you keep them, that you guide them in your unchanging hand, Lord. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you. For those of you who would, please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 to be repotted with the form which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis, absent, for now. Council Member Lee. Present.
 council member warner council member wax council member white president council member tomas morgan president council member hammond vice president niskowski president president mcbride president hey president thank you right now we would have a uh discussion regarding the contents of the minutes i'll turn it over to uh counselor warner
 thank you President McBride so uh I know we had a discussion a few months ago and anytime we make any major changes to the minutes uh these are our minutes so I want to have those uh kind of a larger discussion about those um but recently the minutes have switched from a format in which we were kind of doing almost a verbatim copy and paste from the transcripts down to a much more condensed
 version that kind of went from one extreme to the other. And the latest kind of the versions of the minutes we're getting just have basically the agenda with
 some votes and uh the the list of the votes and roll the votes um I've had a little discussion with Mr wax about this and feel free to chime in Mr wax um I I think there doesn't need to be a verbatim verbatim transcript of the meetings because they're they're on uh they're on social media and there's videos of them but at least some kind of uh descriptor of
 there was a question asked by council member m and that was answered by the city controller or some kind of limited discussion at least to show uh what the dialogue was um and just want to get some input from council uh now that the the minutes are being done in-house and as we move forward with the minutes how much information would council like to have in their minutes on those
 Is there anything Mr. Wax you'd like that? No, I think you illustrated the topic of discussion very well.
 There is a link available with the recording, with the full recording. I think it is unnecessary to have a full transcript that includes everything, but there should be enough. I do agree that there should be enough in the minutes to keep people into what the discussions may be so that if they want to see exactly what happened, they can jump into the recordings and see it all out. But like you said, I do think that there should be some indicators there of
 what the discussion was, not only the actual bill and the vote on it. Yeah, I think my kind of thought too I expressed to Councilmember Wax was maybe the whole dialogue doesn't have to be there, but maybe a sentence on Councilmember X asked a question about the affordability of this topic. So that later if you want to kind of get an idea of certain topics, oh okay they discussed
 you know, affordable housing issue of this or this was the broad discussion that was had and then that question was answered by whomever. Or, you know, citizen member John Q. Public asked a question on this and that was answered by whomever answered the question.
 Thank you. I would just like to add, I know we've been in ongoing discussion and haven't had an opportunity to talk to the whole Council regarding the minutes, but one of the things that I shared even today was
 You know, for the historical record that it definitely should include the way that the votes had gone listing. So not just putting all in favor, but you have to if it's a quorum or I mean, if it's a full council meeting and you put all in favor and it's noted of who all was present in those many minutes, then everyone knows that everyone.
 when voted yay. But if you're missing a committee member or a council member, you have to specify who voted yay or nay, or if they were absent, because if you have someone coming back, looking into history, whether five years, 10 years, and want to see where my stand is on a certain issue that should be recorded in the minute. So I definitely agree that it should not be verbatim, but it definitely should probably even have the topic of what the
 topic was about, like whether it was zoning and what address, for instance. So we have a lot of people that don't have access to social media or care to have listened to the entirety of a meeting for three hours of going back and forth. So I think that this is a good start of a dialogue to share with the clerk of what we expect and hope to see. Anyone else have any input or comment? Councilor Tomas-Morgan.
 I think a question I have is, are we talking about council minutes or are we talking about committee minutes? These are just the council minutes that we, as the subcommittee on minutes, receive. Now that we've made a switch, we've gotten a number of meetings, the minutes from the clerk's office, and they're significantly different than what we were getting before. So we want to make sure that we at least...
 addressed what level of information because we went from as I said kind of verbatim minutes to now the only thing in the minutes is the votes and that's I think somewhere in between is where we need to fall but want to get some larger input on it I agree that there needs to be some middle ground there
 And just wanted to clarify that we're talking about council minutes. So just council minutes. Yeah, thank you. I would also, once we're on the topic, I would also say since we've gone in-house, there has been a marked increase in the, or much faster turnaround time. So I did want to point that out and appreciate that.
 Council Member White, do you have any? No. You've been on the committee before. I agree with Tom. I know this is not the first time. This has kind of been a continuing dialogue for at least a couple decades that I've been paying attention to council business. I think that with the recommendations coming from the Rules Committee, as well as the two of you, Council Member Wax and Council Member Troy, that we're giving more guidance.
 and what our expectations are, but that they do not have to minutes, do not have to be word by word by word. So I think it's a great beginning. And I would I would agree with this white that I think there has to be some some kind of context in there, but that does not have to be word for word. But for someone to be able to pull it up two or three years from now and be able to have to follow what the discussion was, I think is important.
 clerk jones do you have any comments i do thank you um i i agree i i do believe that a summarization of
 perhaps what was talked about would be good. However, when you listen to, you just made a statement about listening to the meeting for three hours, you have to listen to the meeting for three hours in addition to another three hours to get a summarization of everything to make sense. And so with that, I mean, it,
 you get the transcripts, we get the information from the transcripts, which sometimes could be 100 pages or more, or 99 pages or 89 pages for the transcripts that you also, so you have to listen to the recording and you also have to read the transcripts at the same time. You have to correct the information because the transcripts are not always correct. They don't have the names of the people that are speaking.
 And so I agree that it should have some information. However, I just also had a physician taken out of my office. And so that leaves me.
 one less person to do the minutes. And so with that, you know, I understand what you all are saying. I'm saying that we need additional manpower to do that because you're listening to the videos, you're reading the transcripts, and you're typing up the minutes, and you all want a quick turnaround. So how do we, the question is, how do we do all of that
 How do we create a situation where there's a win-win, that you can have a quick turnaround, you can have a summarization of the minutes, but also my staff is not having to take the minutes home, because that's what was happening. They would have to take the minutes home in addition to spending extra time at meetings and doing things like that. I'm just being very real with you all, it's a lot of work.
 I do agree that people do need the minutes and everybody is not going to watch the video. Everybody's not going to listen to the recording. I do know that. So how do we create a situation where we can provide support?
 the minutes that we need, the summarization that we need, in addition to the quick turnaround. And how do I do that with one less staff member? It was hard enough with the ones that we had. So how do I do that? So that's my question. Well, I think a couple of things. One, we can have a direct conversation, you and I, for one. But for two, from my understanding is that, you know,
 the position that is no longer in there did not do the minutes. And so this could be a larger conversation. But one of the things I know that we also had offered was training and more accuracy. Because prior to being on a council, it had always been in-house and a shorter turnaround time with them sharing the functions. But we can have a different conversation about that as well. And you know...
 Yeah, I was chair. I don't know if you recognize me yet. Councilor White. Okay, I would suggest that a meeting would be held with the clerk, you, and Councilmember Troy and Council...
 then wax in regards to the menace and that you could come up with a process and a procedure that would address this issue. And so that the discussion is needed, but I don't know if it's needed at this particular time. I think that there's a need to have some discussions amongst yourselves, then come back with a proposal. I agree. We can do that. And I think the level of detail I was suggesting would be a sentence
 every time somebody spoke so you might have five minutes of dialogue that could be done one sentence be taken in the meeting the minutes I've done them in meetings where you know Council member X asks a question about this topic and it was answered by this this person to listen to the video
 you still have to read the transcript we can have a greater discussion i would hope okay and just to address uh the job description for the position that was taken out it did have minutes on it so it was one there was and that was before i came okay we can have a greater discussion later just before we go is there
 it seems that me and uh Councilmember Warner and the other council members that spoke agreed with trying to hit that middle ground is there any is everybody on board with being if we could get to there yeah yes please no I'm not I think Davis I I think Chloe Jones has her own department I think she's an elected official just like the rest of us are we have our own offices
 I think Claire Jones have made it clear that she needs to support the administration in order for her office to work in a manner in which that's going to be supportive of this council. She doesn't work for this council. That's state law, the state statute.
 And for us to continue to have this conversation back and forth about what she is doing and what she needs to do better, knowing that the things that she desires to have and need to have in order for her office to work effectively and efficiently as she works alongside this council is not a good conversation. We need to make sure that they are well resourced. They have the dollars available.
 revenue and whatever else they desire to have in order for them to do the job to the level that we desire to be as long as we continue to have this same conversation we've been having this conversation for two years now as long as we continue to have this conversation and not supply that office you can take dawn out of it anyone that's in that office and if we don't have
 The necessary tools that are needed for the office to function properly, then all we're going to do is just keep spinning around and around. The conversation should be, what does she need? How much of it does she need in order for us to get what we need out of it? This council.
 Actually, Councilor Davis, the clerk and I, we've been having these conversations. For two years. No. For two years. We've been having consistent conversations. For two years. For the past couple of months. Years. Intensively. So it's been more out of what you may have known, but we have been in discussion. She actually asked what...
 What did the council want to see? And that question was posed to the entire council a few months ago. So if you check the dialogue, we have been in communication with her. And this is the reason why we're having this dialogue because of that request.
 I'm fine. I'm clear on that. Is there any other comments? No different than you going somewhere else with this conversation. You don't respect what I have to say. Absolutely, I respect it. It's the same thing. I took note of what you said. I took note of that and I addressed your conversation. You take council time up with the same conversation for the last two years and I think it's unfair to this council and it's unfair to this public that we talk about this. If you were to be president of the meetings, you wouldn't know about the dialogue that we have had. I'm a president.
 I'm present at most of the meetings. With that, we will make sure that we get with you. I haven't seen you in two months, Mr. Davis. Can we continue this discussion after the youth council? Absolutely. Members can be sworn in because they have to go back to school and the parents have to leave with them. So I'm just asking you. And with that being said, I will turn it over and move to the next item. And, Counselor White, we will turn this over to you for the swearing in of our members.
 2023 Youth Council Advisory Board. Welcome everybody. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. With that being said, I'll turn it over to you, Councilor White. Good evening. I am pleased to have this opportunity to have before you a group of outstanding students who will be sworn in this evening as members of the South Bend Common Council Advisory Council.
 We recognize the importance of creating a structure for youth to provide input and to become involved in the civic process. In addition to how government can directly benefit from their input of our young people by encouraging and engaging positive youth involvement. I wish to recognize Dr. Brian White. If you please stand.
 He's representing the superintendent of schools at this time. Are there any other principals in the audience? Seeing none, I would also like to thank the counselors to please stand.
 who have helped to identify and to work with me to ensuring that we have the outstanding students that are before you this evening. I also would like to recognize Councilwoman Lori Hammond for interviewing the students from Marion High School.
 To the parents, I sincerely thank you for trusting your youth to this soft and common council. You can rest assured that we will take good care of them. I will now ask the students to stand. Students, you can stand. And okay, aren't they beautiful? Wonderful. Yeah. And I'm going to ask each student to come to the podium, starting with you.
 i hate i keep saying the twins but you know come to the podium state your name and the school that you represent and then go directly in front of the real the podium that's right there's not a podium but it's a stand you know where to go okay okay hi i'm zoe nicholson and i attend clay high school and i'm in 12th grade okay oh i am caitlyn nicholson i attend high school and i am i am in 12th grade
 My name is Elijah Gorski. I'm a junior at Washington High School. My name is Isabella Renteria and I'm a junior at Riley High School. My name is Liana Hudson. I go to Washington High School. I'm in 11th grade. My name is Tamara Lerner. I attend Washington High School and I'm a junior. Hi, I'm Serenity Williams. I'm from Washington High School and I'm in 11th grade. My name is Riley Collins. I attend Marion High School and I'm a senior. Hello, my name is Lou Reynolds and I'm a senior at Marion High School.
 My name is Lena Bradley and I attend Riley High School. My name is Bianca Olin and I'm a senior at Marion High School. My name is Meira Ripps. I attend John Adams High School and I'm a junior. Hi, my name is Salman Vazquez. I'm in 12th grade and I attend Washington High School. I'm Malia Schmidke and I am a senior at Career Academy.
 At this time I want to ask our city clerk to come down and to give the oath and to swear these outstanding students in as members of the 2023 Sobin Common Council Youth Advisory Council.
 Youth Council members, I want you to remain standing. Our photographer will probably rearrange you. I will now ask members of the South End Common Council, along with the clerk, to come down so that we can take pictures with you as well. I would like to hand congratulate Sandy, our speaker, and our people.
 the racial . We'll take five minutes. Thank you. Twenty eight. We'll reconvene at 733. Oh okay. . . . . .
 I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. There's a motion. Is there a second? All in favor? I have a part down here, so you're going to have to slow down. Any opposition? There's a motion and second in. And all in favor for us to go into the Committee of the Whole? The motion is carried. Thank you.
 The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading in public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting in public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the Chairperson of the Committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 63-22 a second reading?
 63-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, annexing to and bringing within the city limits of South Bend, Indiana, and amending the zoning ordinance for property located in German Township, contiguous therewith, Councilmanic District Number 1421275 Cleveland Road, South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, Chair. This came before zoning annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Hi. Good evening to everyone. Can you hear me?
 Yes. Okay, great. My name is Alan Jacob. We represent the petitioner. We're seeking to annex 21275 Cleveland Road, Cleveland and Shell Bark into the city of South Bend for the purposes of then thereby rezoning it to commercial C district to their build and operate and express auto car wash. The purpose of the annexation is to.
 allow this property to utilize the utilities from the city of South Bend because otherwise the property could not be could not use utilities for the purpose of that operation so we applied simultaneously for an annexation and a rezoning and that is the purpose of the annexation before the committee this evening
 Ms. Boyles? Rachel Boyles, Zoning Specialist, offices on the 14th floor of this building. Mr. Jacob did hit on a lot of the key points of the zoning, and I will just add that it came from the plan commission with a favorable recommendation, and we would do have Mike DeVita here for the fiscal plan if we wanted to hear that together. Council Members, do you have any questions? Yes.
 If not, this time we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone in the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 63-22? There is no one in the public virtual audience that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 63-22 is now closed.
 Council members, would you like to make any statements regarding this? If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 63-22. I'll make a motion to send 63-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. I think we can do it by acclamation. All in favor? No. Not on this one. Voting on legislation has to be a roll call. Okay. All right. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Yes.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskovsky. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 63-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Clerk Jones, would you give Bill 69-22 a second reading? 69-22. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1405 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, Chair. Bill number 6922 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the Committee of the Whole with no recommendation. All right. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that is before us. Rachel Boyle, zoning specialist, office is on the 14th floor of this building. The property is located at 1405 Portage Avenue. It's zoned NC neighborhood center district.
 The special exception or the requested action is a special exception for tobacco, hookah and vaping use. I know there was some discussion about other uses at this site. A restaurant would be permitted, but a drive through would require a special exception and might be challenging to fit on this property. Ultimately, though, we are here this evening to discuss the proposed use as a tobacco, vape and hookah spot.
 If approved, the site would be required to be developed current standards voted on by the Board of Zoning Appeals. They would also be subject to all laws, requirements, and regulations of the local, state, and federal laws. But that's not a zoning matter that would be taken care of during all of the licensing portion of it. This portion of Portage Avenue has a variety of commercial and residential uses.
 with the commercial uses predominantly lining the corridor. The development standards will align with the standards spelled out in the NC Neighborhood Center District in the ordinance, with the exception of the six parking spots in the established front yard. The transparency and landscaping standards will be required to follow the ordinance. The additional paving will be removed to accommodate the city standards for streetscapes.
 This comes to you with a favorable recommendation from the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the petitioner is present to speak on this. Petitioner, if you would give your name and address. Good evening. My name is Praveen Gulati, and I am the board member of Peak Investment and Asset Management. Our company is located in West Lafayette, Indiana, and we purchased this property recently from Speedway.
 and this is in the neighborhood district. We applied for special use which is required by the zoning ordinance of City of South Bend. Earlier, it was approved by and recommended by the staff and then approved by the Board of Zoning Appeal.
 And we will work closely with the city and the zoning department to make sure that we build up to the facility up to their standard. And this time, while using the existing building, this is the only use we can do there. And earlier, there was a respectable city clerk has some emotional and
 issues there. You know, she had some points there, but I didn't get a chance to say it at that time. But now I want to say anybody has choices, you know, and this use by the state law and federal law, tobacco commission laws, the vendor cannot sell it to less than 21 year of age. I am 66 year old. I never smoked in my life and nobody forced me
 Nobody forced you to go to a liquor store. And to my respectable person, she said that there was a liquor store there. So for your information, a couple of years ago, state of Indiana legislators have even extended the working hours for those liquor stores. Now they are open seven days a week.
 So the choices are the customer while looking at the wave shop or a grocery store. If I don't want to eat bread, nobody's going to force me. So 21 year of age is people get people get children at that age and it is a respectable age. People take their own decision. So it is I mean, there is no restriction for this product. And if.
 You will not allow at this location. I mean, if somebody wants to buy it, they will go two miles away and get it because that is their choice. You cannot stop him. This is 21. I mean, you know, as a retailer, we cannot sell to anybody who's 21. And at 21, everyone, they are sound minded. They take their own decision.
 and we are a country of people by the people people government by the people for the people and few minutes before you said that justice for all so I think that this should be approved otherwise this building was there vacant for eight years and it was it will remain there till we find any other use if you will not approve that's all right council members do you have any questions
 If not, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of Bill 69-22? I'm sorry. 69-22. Okay.
 I'm having technical difficulties, but I did not see anyone before, but I do want to speak from the public myself. In Don Jones, 602 Cushing Street, South Indiana, 46616. Also city clerk with offices on the fourth floor. And gentlemen had mentioned that, you know, I spoke there based on emotion. And what I want to say is that,
 When I look at the neighborhood that I live in and I'm looking from, say, the perspective of a child, because people do make their own decisions. I smoked. I made a decision to smoke, but I was 12. So when you're exposed to things, sometimes you make decisions that you're not informed of. And so to put all of these things in...
 The same neighborhood in the same vicinity, you have a liquor store, you have a tobacco store, you have a gas station that sells cigarettes and whatever else. You have all of that in the same vicinity. And then you have Transformation Ministries that's right down the street where kids are walking to Transformational Ministries who is doing an awesome job. But as a kid, we make decisions based on what we're exposed to by adults.
 So I just want to say that as an adult, now that I am in a position to speak up for kids, I would say that's not a good environment to create for children. I'm done. Can you say something, please? Hold on one second. We're going to make sure that there is anyone else that wants to speak in opposition. Dr. Davis?
 No, I have some comments. Okay. Nobody has their hands up. There is no one that thinks. Okay. We do have, then we have the opportunity for the petitioner to have a rebuttal. You can speak now. I'm saying that she's contradicting her own thoughts, you know. That, yeah, kids, you know, I have kids, you know. My daughter is a physician. My son is in finance in New York.
 I mean, I am a immigrant. I came with this country for $100. I mean, I raised two children and, you know, they are very successful. So this is what the parents teach them to go and show them the path.
 But the thing is that, you know, this business is not even allowed. Kids are not even allowed to go inside if they are not 21. They cannot. I mean, if I sell it to them, I go to jail. So there is no question. It is just emotional because you don't want to have in your neighborhood. It is not your choice. I purchase the property and I decide to do what I do.
 OK, you can oppose all day long, but you know, we businesses are taken from the financial perspective. It is not that you tomorrow you say, OK, no, on this location, I just want a, you know, like a insurance agent. So it is not my choice, but the market want, you know, I have never seen even a single person.
 coming on the fourth today from the public and say, oppose this. You know, nobody's on the public refusing this. If somebody is saying that the public doesn't want it, I mean, that is your personal opinion. But, you know, these are the choices that, you know, it is the businesses are
 open or done for profit, for successful of the venture. We are not a non-profitable organization. We are not a charitable organization that we do this for charity. We are here, we have invested the money,
 If we are going to improve this location, we are going to spend hundreds of dollars to improve this location to the satisfaction of city and the zoning department and we agreed to their you know that you know six parking up front and try to improve the property whatever they are mandating to us. But other than that, I mean we have surveyed that because we have surveyed and we when we are
 We are going to pay the license fee, your permit fee, and we are going to pay to the state, and we are going to bring the merchandise. We are investing the money, so we also surveyed in the vicinity what they need.
 I mean, saying that, I mean, I have not seen any public, you know, it was advertised that everything was, you know, sent letters by them to everybody. I have not seen anybody, you know, opposing to this, you know. This is what I need to say. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 69-22 is now closed. Council members, would you like to make any statements?
 Absolutely. This points out to a larger issue, whether you are agreeable with what the gentleman is trying to present or not. This goes directly to what I have been talking about probably for the last two or three years about capitalism and the functions of capitalism and how markets are developed and how markets are supported by the people that are in that particular area.
 That doesn't survive in that area unless the people in that area support that business. It's not up to this council to stand in the way of expanding the tax base within a neighborhood unless that neighborhood and that area has a plan.
 Is there a plan that's available where we can see where he does or does not fit? If it doesn't, then how do we tell a small business owner that's willing to invest in the city of South Bend, regardless if we are going to go there or not, and purchase whatever items they sell it?
 If we don't have what we call a reasonable business plan per the city of South Bend, as it relates to that neighborhood or any other neighborhood, how can we stand up and say that he is not allowed to invest in this city? Now, I may not like what he has going on. I may not enjoy what he has going on. As a matter of fact, I may not tell anyone about it, but if he's using his own dollar
 and he's going about the business the way that the law states that he should go about his business, then he's allowed to do what he's doing. We can't stand in the way of that. If we start picking winners and picking losers, we'll continue to lose in this city. Thank you. Anyone else? I would say as the district rep is that I've met with Mr. Galante, met with different people in the neighborhood, know that
 there is frustration with certain things but put put in certain neighborhoods and and so knowing that it does put us in a very difficult position and I think the residents of the first district want something better on that corner it's been it's been it's been a a place of great blight and
 issues and I mean we've had to call code enforcement many times to get it cleaned up and fixed up so I think the residents want something other than something that's going to bring a negative aspect to their to their to the neighborhood so if anyone else want to say anything can I ask a question of you really quick because you're a district rep now this is a smoke shop or in my understanding is differently or wrongly this is a smoke shop right
 It's a vape shop. Yeah, it's a vape shop. Tobacco Mart. Okay, Tobacco Mart. Is that a legal substance in the United States of America? It's not illegal. It's not illegal? So it's a legal substance? Yeah. Okay. Well, when we talk about our neighborhoods and what we want, what we want in our neighborhoods, even though something may not be illegal, doesn't make it right.
 To you, it doesn't make it right. People are going to continue to smoke. People are going to continue to drink. People are going to do whatever they desire because God gave us free will to do those things. It is up to us if that's the case for that neighborhood. They deserve a grocery store. Then we need to work to make sure the zoning is available and ready to go for a grocery store. We need to go in and attract the grocery store. We need to make sure dollars are available if they want a restaurant, whatever that is.
 But if a business owner comes into this city and says, hey, I want to develop this here on this corner and no one else has had interest in doing anything because the store has probably been closed up for the last 20 years. Who are we as a council to tell that business owner they can't do it when it's a legal operating entity? Now, anyone else want to say anything? I'm just wondering, does the NNN.
 continue down that far is that incorporated into that neighborhood association and their plan or is that not included I don't think that is I know that we don't know the boundaries I don't know if that's the uh if that's the uh if it reaches down that far but I know that we have been working for years on
 all of the development that we're trying to get done over in that area to improve it to bring it back to life so that it can be a place where uh people feel safe and that people can come and uh and have viable things in their neighborhood to go to so so there perhaps is not a plan for that particular area I think there's been some discussions but not a exact thank you I will now entertain a motion regarding building 69-22
 Bob, if there's no motion, what happens? There's no motion. It does not move out of the committee of the whole. Okay. All right. Could you say that louder, Bob, please? I'm sorry. If there's no motion that's voted on, it does not move out of the committee of the whole, so it will not go to the full council. I'll move for favor of recommendation to the full council. Is there a second? I'll second. All right. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Lee.
 Nay. Council Member Warner? Nay. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member White? Nay. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Nay. Council Member Hammond? Nay. Vice President Nizhkovsky? Nay. Council Member Davis? Aye. President McBride? Aye. We have six nays and three ayes. All right. It will be... I don't have a procedure question. Okay.
 for council board that motion does not pass there still needs to be a motion that passes to get it out of this committee so the next logical uh motion would be to uh send it to the full council with an unfavorable recommendation is there a question if i may bob sure or and angela i know uh um is is tabling this an option at this point in time i know there's some of these if we table it
 it automatically takes the favorable recommendation from the bza and no tabling is is an option for for the council sure okay is there a time on this in which and uh i know uh angela if you would be able to answer that i believe there's a timeline on this right where it would automatically just adopt that bza recommendation
 Angela Smith, Zoning Administrator, offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. There is a time limit on special exceptions. I believe it's 60 days from the date of certification. So if it was, you would still have an opportunity to table this evening.
 and still be within your timeframe between now and the next council meeting. But if there was ultimately no action or it kept getting tabled, then it would automatically follow the BZA recommendation. Thank you.
 I kind of struggle with this. You know, we've got smoke shops all over. I think having them in commercial areas, I know everybody thinks the 4th District area, the streets are paved with gold, but there's three smoke shops all within about a quarter mile of Angela Edison and Ironwood there, and you've got a liquor store there. And I think having them
 and I agree with some of Mr. Davis's points, having them in a commercial areas where some of these we've had, where they're putting them in residential areas, but then I also hear Mr. Lee and the concerns in the neighborhood. I would make a motion to table this and potentially have some more discussion with Mr. Lee and the developer and the neighbors and table this to our first meeting in January.
 I'll second that motion okay there's been a motion in a second clerk Jones please call the world Council member Warner aye Council member wax hi Council member white thanks Council member Thomas Morgan aye Council member Hammond aye Vice President nizgatsky aye Council member Davis I have a concern what are you trying to accomplish
 With having a meeting with the neighbors and the business owner. We got a motion on the floor. I still can ask a question. I'm just allowing some more time for discussion. What is your vote, Mr. Davis? You can't force me to vote. I just said I had a question. No one asked if anyone asked a question. You went immediately to a vote. So I have a question before I vote. But no, no, you can't force me to vote. No, no, no. We already did the question portion. We're not voting. No, he had a question. So that's why he asked it for it to be tabled.
 So then I had a question, but you had already moved forward with a vote. So I'm asking my question before I vote. I'm allowed that. But the previous vote was voted down. Council Members League, I'm allowed to ask that question. Okay. So you asked the question, but now we're at a point. So I didn't get to answer. He just said he wants more discussion. My question again is. That's the end. We need some more time to talk. Okay.
 About what? To figure out how we can make this, what can work here and what the community wants in their neighborhood. Is that what you're looking for, Troy? I answered your question, Mr. Davis. So you just want more discussion. My vote is nay because you don't want to have any target you're shooting at. Nay. Thank you. President McBride, aye. Eight ayes. All right. So this will move forward.
 this has been tabled to January 9th? Yes. All right. Clerk Jones, will you give 75-22 a second reading? 75-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting an investment policy for the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023. Is there a committee report? No.
 Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole. All right. The petitioner is present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 All right. Thank you, Chair Lee. Dan Parker, City Controller. My office is on the 12th floor of this building. So Bill 7522 is actually identical in substance to bills that were adopted by Council in 2020 and 2021.
 for the calendar years 2021 and 2022, and this is for 2023. What this bill does is continue the city's existing investment policy. So it does not make changes to that investment policy, but continues the authorization for the city to invest its its assets in all of the various securities and assets that are allowed by state law.
 No amendments have been made to that state law since the last time we considered this investment policy. And so the investment policy is identical to our current one. And we're just asking council to readopt that for 2023. But with that, I'm happy to answer any questions that any council members might have. Are there any questions from council at all? At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clark Jones, is there anyone which can speak in favor?
 No, there's no one that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one that's wishing to speak in opposition as well. All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 75-22 is now closed. Council members, do you have any statements you want us to make? If not, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 75-22. I make a motion to send Bill 75-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 All right. It's been been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, take the roll. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. It will be sent. 75-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation.
 Clerk Jones, please give a second reading of 76-22. 76-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2022 of $840,000 from the general fund number 101.
 $968,222 from the Parks and Recreation Fund, number 201, $135,000 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund, number 202, $25,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuum Education Fund, number 220, $2,300,000 from the Central Services Fund, number 222, $294,000 from the Liability Insurance Fund, number 226,
 226,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund, number 266. 875,000 from the Solid Waste Operations Fund, number 610. 210,000 from the Water Works Operation Fund, number 620.
 $224,165 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund, number 641, and $550,000 from the Century Center Operations Fund, number 670. All right. Is there a petitioner?
 Please state your name and your address and share with us key points regarding the bill. Yes, Chair. I'd just like to give the committee report. Oh, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. The committee report. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That was heard in personal and finance this afternoon, and it was given a favorable recommendation to the Committee of the Whole.
 All right, petitioner. Yes, thank you, Chair Lee. Dan Parker, City Controller. So this bill is the first one of our two normal quarterly budget adjustment bills. This one is the one where we come and ask for additional appropriations that actually increase the annual budget to account for expenses that were unforeseen at the time the annual budget was put together. Thank you.
 As we talked about in committee this afternoon, the theme of this bill is that things just costed more in 2022 than we anticipated. The main areas in which we saw increased costs due to inflation were around gasoline. So I think we all saw that when we took our own personal vehicles to the pumps, as well as the repairs and maintenance cost for the fleet.
 So between gas and fleet, we saw about an increase of $2.3 million in total costs across the city. As we talked about briefly in
 at the committee meeting this afternoon. The what you'll see as you go through the detail of the additional appropriation requests is that those two items repairs and maintenance cost and gasoline are reflected in the various departmental budgets and increases for for budgets and police and fire and parks, etc. And then they are also reflected in the budget requests for central services. Central services is our central garage.
 That purchases all of the gasoline from the external vendors, as well as purchases all the parts for the vehicles from the external vendors, and then bills those out to the departments as those those items and that gas is utilized. So in essence, those expenses are reflected in both the central services request as well as the departmental requests.
 Beyond gas and the parts for the vehicles and repairs and maintenance cost, the other items that are consistently higher in expenditures amounts in 2022 than what we anticipated were utilities. We saw a number of areas where we had increased utility expenses. And again, that's the result of providers of those utilities passing on their increased costs to the customers in a way that we hadn't necessarily anticipated before.
 The other item which we talked about briefly during committee meeting is the property insurance premium. I shared that property insurance has actually tripled in cost since I started with the city. And that was four years ago, roughly tripled, almost tripled. It was about four hundred and fifty thousand dollars in annual premium in 2018, which was the year I started. And in 2022, we paid about one point two million dollars. So there's there's a lot of factors that go into that.
 Mainly, it is the result of trends in the industry and everything becoming more and more difficult to ensure as we have large-scale weather events and other issues continue to happen more and more frequently, insurers just...
 have a lot more liability that they need to somehow cover with their premium cost. And so that gets baked into the increased premiums across the board. And we see that in our premiums as well. We also talked about how some of the improvements that we make in our assets, which are great because they actually improve the asset for the use in the community, increase the total cost of the premium that we pay for insuring that asset, though, because it is based on the replacement cost of the asset. So as the replacement cost of an asset goes up, the cost of insuring that asset goes up as well.
 But beyond that, that's the majority of the appropriation requests in front of you. And again, the theme that ties all of them together is really just increased costs that were not anticipated in the 2022 budget. I'm happy to answer any questions, though, on the specific appropriation requests or on anything else. Council members, do you have any questions? If not, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone in the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill?
 76-22. There is no one from the public that's wishing to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone that wants to speak in opposition? There is no one that is expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 76-22 is now closed. Councilmembers, would you like to make any statements? If not, I will entertain a motion.
 Regarding Bill 76-22. I'll make a motion to send Bill 76-22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgovsky. Aye. Council Member Davis. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes.
 All right, Clerk Jones, it will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Jones, will you give 77-22 a second reading? 77-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana for the year 2022.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Chair. This was heard in personal and finance today, and it was sent to the Committee of the Whole with a favorable recommendation. All right. The petition is present with us. I ask that you state your name, address, share with us key points.
 all right thank you chair um dan parker city controller office on the 12th floor uh so 7722 is the second of our normal quarterly budget adjustment bills uh this is the one that simply uh reallocates budget or transfers budget uh in between different divisions within the same department or in between different cost categories personnel supplies services and capital uh within the same division um in order to cover any any
 unanticipated overages in budget. As I shared during committee this afternoon, we always recommend and try to recommend to the departments and try to reallocate unused budget to cover any overages before we come and ask for additional appropriations. So this, this bill does not increase or decrease the overall budget. It is just a reallocation.
 Happy to answer any questions on that process or on the department and division or that process generally, or any of the specific budget transfers, I should say. Council members, do you have any questions? If not, Clerk Jones, would you go to the public? Is there anyone from public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 77-22? There's no one from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 77-22.
 Is anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There is no one present wishing to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 77-22 is now closed. Council members, any statements? Yes. Mr. Wax. Thank you. I think this is the last presentation that we will have from our city controller, Dan Parker. I just want to thank you for...
 the wonderful years that we've had together with you in the city and all the great work that you've done um i can't say i've enjoyed every single one of your presentations but uh i've i've been impressed by every single one of your presentations so i would just want to wish you uh much success in all your future endeavors mr warner uh
 i would uh just note uh in these transfers there's still even though our gas costs went up and we appropriated some money there is still a significant shifting uh of unused monies and i just want to acknowledge that and uh thank you for that using those unspent monies and some light items to pay for the gasoline it's still
 looked about 100 about 200 grand here in that so and then uh thank you for for everything you've done uh your your memory of the checkbook and your ability to recall every dime spent has been quite impressive over the years and we still got to get out kayaking sometime councilwoman naskowski
 Thank you, Chair. Yes, Dan, your memory is just amazing. To ask you a question and you can rip that answer off almost on the top of your head and then you'll say, well, let me double check. And then you send me an email. And sure enough, it was what you said. So that ability that you have is amazing. And I've enjoyed the presentations. You're always very polite. You've always rolled everything out in a way that is understandable to everyone.
 And more importantly, you helped me through the budget process, being that I just chaired it this year as Councilman Warner, and I know Councilwoman White can attest to. It's a little difficult if you don't have somebody that can help you through that. And I appreciate all that you've done for the council, all you've done for the city of South Bend. The residents here should know that they were very lucky to have someone like you at the top of the helm, that's for sure. And you're going to be missed. Thank you.
 So coffee sometime. And I still may have a question once in a while. President Bright. Thank you. I just want to say thank you for your years of service and dedication to the city as well. You have definitely been one that I can just pop in on the 12th floor and look for you and they'll find you. So I really appreciate the time that you have taken with me along this journey as well.
 I wish you all the best. And I'm also grateful for our conversations that we had about the incentive for elected officials that you've included us in that incentive that we have received for elected officials as well. So thank you for that.
 ANY COUNCILWOMAN TOMAS MORGAN I TOO JUST WANT TO WISH YOU GOD'S SPEED MR PARKER IT IS UM IT'S BEEN SO REASSURING TO ME UM I THINK TO OTHERS TO HAVE YOU IN THIS ROLE YOU HAVE SERVED US AND OUR CITY WELL AND IT'S BEEN AN HONOR TO WORK WITH YOU IN MY FIRST TERM ON COUNCIL
 And I am thrilled that you're remaining here in South Bend. And I, too, still have your number. So we'll keep that. Thank you. Anyone else? I would just like to say ditto on all of the above. And I wish you all the luck. Mr. Davis. You know, you guys make it really hard not to.
 Say something nice about them because I thought we were voting on a bill and that got lost somewhere. It really did. Appreciate your service. But I do have a couple of questions for you. Do you believe that we're headed for a recession as it relates to this economy? The gas prices have dropped down significantly and they look like they're going to continue to drop.
 And that obviously impacts everything that we do here in this country. And so my question is, do you your your your thoughts? Because that doesn't impact what we're doing here. Are we headed for a recession? Do you think that we are? What are you reading?
 Yeah. So thank you for the question. I'm sure that if I had a better answer for this, then I'd be working for the Fed. Well, no, I mean, you're a controller. You pay attention to the monies and dollars. Yes, you do. Sure. Yeah. No, absolutely. So the
 The answer is I think that there are certain indications that would suggest that we are heading for a recession. Some of them are simply cyclical, right? So the economy runs on a cycle, and some of that means that you can't have continued expansion all the time. You are going to run into recessions, and you can usually see that on recurring bases. And if that were true and if we think that is true, then I think we are due for a recession to a certain extent. Yeah.
 The other items that would point to a recession, as you said, some of the actions that the Fed are taking to curb inflation, which are needed and necessary, I think, and have started to curb inflation, things like raising interest rates and limiting the amount of money and currency out in the circulation are going to lead to a recession unless it's done in a way that is gradual and over time.
 And the, you know, whether or not that actually leads to a recession, I think is dependent on who is looking into their version of the crystal ball. But I think that you could point to some indicators and say that a mild, hopefully, recession is on the horizon. And as you said, that is something that we do need to take into consideration when we do city budgeting is the impact that a recession would have. What I would say is.
 All I can hope, and I think that some of the actions that the Fed has taken has been positive in leading us towards this outcome, all we can hope is that you don't have the dual issues of recession and inflation. If you have both of those where you're looking still at 5 plus percent inflation and you're looking at a recession, that is where there's going to be some significant concerns and significant hardship, right?
 Not to say there won't be hardship. There wasn't hardship with the with the inflation that we saw over the summer and not to say there won't be continued hardship if there is a recession. But if you have both at the same time, that would be very difficult to weather one or the other. I think the city can get through from from a budgetary perspective. So it'll be prudent on the city's end and this council to pay attention to the amount of money that we will be spending as we move forward, because that is looming.
 I know I feel like it's looming. I could be wrong, right? But I think as we are voting these budget transfers through before so that we can spend more dollars,
 being the council that's over the purse strings, you know, probably is a better word than that, but purse strings, we have to be financially understanding of what's happening in our atmosphere as not only in South Bend, but nationwide. But thank you again for your answer. You did a good job. I'm still waiting on that survey from the employees. You forgot about that? I didn't forget, no. Okay. But thank you.
 Thank you. Yeah. Ms. White. I would just like to thank Mr. Parker as well. All the comments that the other Council members have made. I support those comments as well. I can recall the first time that we met and I was asking these questions and you were just giving me all this information state statute by code and number. And I asked you how did you do this.
 And do you, you know, do you ever get any sleep at all? Because you would just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. So I do appreciate you. I wish you well in your next professional journey. And I'm quite sure that you do an excellent job. And then my comments is the same. Dan, appreciate you. All right. I'll now entertain a motion for 77-22. I move that we send 77.
 77-22. 22 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. 77-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved.
 second all right um all in favor say aye aye all that oppose all right motion carries thank you the regular council session is back in session we are going to bills on third reading this is the portion of the meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of a whole clerk jones will you give bill 6922 a third reading
 Yes. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1405 Portage Avenue, Councilmanic District number one in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole? 69-22 has been tabled until January 9th. Thank you. Clerk Jones.
 Will you give Bill 7522 a third reading? 7522, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting an investment policy for the City of South Bend for calendar year 2023. Thank you. Counselor Lee, do you have a recommendation regarding Bill 75-22? Bill 75-22 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 75-22.
 Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the reading, please. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 75-22 has been adopted.
 clerk jones will you please give bill 7622 a third reading 76 22. third reading on an ordinance of the common council city of south wind indiana
 appropriating additional funds for certain departmental and city services operations for the year 2022 of $840,000 from the General Fund No. 101, $968,222 from the Parks and Recreation Fund No. 201, $135,000 from the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund No. 202, $25,000 from the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund No.
 Number 220, $2,300,000 from the Central Services Fund. Number 222, $294,000 from the Liability Insurance Fund. Number 226, $226,000 from the MVH Restricted Fund. Number 266.
 $875,000 from the Solid Waste Operations Fund, number 610. $210,000 from the Water Works Operations Fund, number 620. $224,165 from the Sewage Works Operations Fund, number 641. $550,000 from the Century Center Operations Fund, number 670.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 7622? Yes, 7622 comes to the full counsel with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7622. I move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you call the roll?
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill number 76-22 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 77-22 a third reading?
 77-22, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, for budget transfers for various departments within the City of South Bend, Indiana, for the year 2022. Thank you. Councilor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? Bill 77-22 comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 77-22.
 Move for passage. Second. Has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 7722 has been adopted.
 Moving on to resolutions. This is the portion of the council meeting where Common Council here bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chairperson of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for an advisory review and a recommendation is then given. Clerk Jones, will you please give resolution 2259 a reading?
 2259 resolution or an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, adopting a written fiscal plan and establishing a policy for the provision of services to an annexation area in German Township. Thank you. Hi, would you please state your name and address for the record?
 Good evening. Michael DeVita, principal planner with the city's Department of Community Investment. The office is on the 14th floor of this building. So this fiscal plan, again, is for a 2.8 acre annexation that's been requested by the property owner of 21275 Cleveland Road, northwest corner of Cleveland Road and Shelbark Avenue. As you heard earlier in the meeting, a car wash is planned for this site. So no capital improvements are planned by the city now as part of the annexation. Water and sewer are both already available along Cleveland Road.
 which is already in the city limits. A short section of Shell Bark Ave will be added to the city, which the developer will be required to upgrade. The Cleveland Shell Bark annexation area will be added to the Common Council's 1st District and served by Police Beat 22, Fire Station 11, Emergency Medic 11, and Neighborhood Services and Enforcement Area 5.
 so these and other non-capital services will be in place within one year the effective date of the annexation with response times comparable to other areas of the city so then i asked for the council's adoption of the fiscal plan for the annexation area but we have to take any questions you might have thank you i will turn to counselor hammond is there a recommendation from the committee
 Yes, the same came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will turn now to my colleagues and see if there are any questions for Mr. DeVita. At this time, I'll turn it over to the public. Do you see anyone wishing to speak in favor? There's no one.
 expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill thank you do you see anyone wishing to speak in opposition there is no one expressing interest to speak in opposition as well thank you with that being said the public portion is now closed i'll turn back to my colleagues are there any comments counselor lee i would just like to say as the representative from the first district uh we're excited that we're expanding just a little bit more and uh
 I look forward to something positive being put over there. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? If not, Council, what's your pleasure? Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 aye council member warner aye president mcbride hi nine eyes thank you uh resolution 2259 has been adopted clerk jones would you please give 2260 a reading
 2260, resolution or an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, an updated and superseding resolution of the South Bend Common Council concerning climate recovery and our commitment to develop a climate action plan aimed at greenhouse gas reductions for the City of South Bend and to support other climate-related initiatives. Thank you. Is there a recommendation from the committee?
 Yes, there is President McBride. This was heard in community investment this afternoon and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. And are you the presenter? I am. Thank you. Council members, I bring this resolution before you as I, as we discussed in committee,
 As sponsor of the bill, I've been working with Community Investment Office of Sustainability with regards to implementation of the Climate Action Plan. In July, we heard from that office their annual report, and they provided...
 slides that gave us an update on what the office has been doing, the initiatives and projects that have rolled out in the year that our executive director, Evelyn Bauman, has been director of the Office of Sustainability. This resolution comes to you
 from both myself and the Office of Sustainability. And I'd like to turn to Ms. Bauman to explain some of the reasons why we're bringing this resolution before you. Our proposal is to lengthen the implementation period of the Climate Action Plan by shifting from a three-year to a five-year update cycle for various reasons, which I'll turn to Ms. Bauman to explain. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you so much, Councilmember Tomas Morgan, and thank you for having me here tonight. Evelyn Bauman offices... Ms. Bauman, could you state your name and address? Oh, maybe you were going to do that, state your name and address. Thank you. Evelyn Bauman offices over at 1165 Franklin Street, the Technology Resource Center. Great. So as mentioned, we are proposing tonight to shift the implementation period for the
 And a few reasons behind this proposal. Right when the Climate Action Plan was passed in November of 2019, we only had a few short months to begin work on implementation before the pandemic hit and largely stalled new projects that were underway. The existing Director of Sustainability transitioned to a new role, and that role was vacant for some time, and our office transitioned from the Department of Public Works to the Department of Community Investment.
 So those factors limited our implementation for two or so years. But then broadly speaking, a five-year update provides much more time for us to implement our projects, monitor and evaluate their impact, and more broadly engage the community in an updated climate action plan.
 And lastly, the other reasons we shared earlier today in committee are around academic research supports a five year life cycle for said plan, and also compared to peer cities, their other climate action plans are in a five year update cycle. So we're looking to have the next two years to continue implementation of our programs that began this year and engage the community in updated climate action plan.
 Thank you, Ms. Bauman. I just want to add that when we come time to update the Climate Action Plan in 2024, should this resolution pass this evening, we will be proposing more comprehensive revision of the Climate Action Resolution to update the data narrative, to add more information.
 uh research to address adaptation goals uh among other developments in the debate and it would take likely the next year to do this and with substantive stakeholder and community involvement with that we'll take any questions no i don't have any questions rachel you uh emailed me um last week and asked me to sign on with you rachel i can hear you
 i want to apologize for not responding i don't know something took me when you were emailing me but i completely support what you're doing my apologies something took me i i don't know what happened what was going on but and i just remembered but my apologies thank you mr davis any other questions i'm sorry chair yes he knows are there any other comments from council well
 The only thing that we're doing is just changing from three to five years. And this is putting us on track with other cities across the nation, correct? That's correct. Okay. Any other comments? Thank you. With that being said, council, what's your pleasure on bill 22-60? Move for passage. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council member White. Aye. Council member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Resolution 2260 has been adopted. Bills on first reading. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 7822 a first reading? Yes. Yes.
 7822 first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1144 Corby Boulevard Councilmanic District Number 4 in the City of South Bend Indiana.
 Thank you. I will entertain a motion to send Bill 7822 to South Bend Plan Commission for public hearing on January 17th, 2023, and to ZNA for public hearing and third reading on January 23rd, 2023. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion is carried. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7922 a reading?
 79-22, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 7468 and 7686 Borden Parkway, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you.
 I would like to entertain a motion to send Bill 7922 to BZA for public hearing on January 3rd, 2023, and for zoning and annexation in public hearing and third reading on January 9th, 2023. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion's carried. Unfinished business. Yes.
 I'd just like to remind council that we will have executive session on tomorrow at 4 o'clock for two second interviews for the CRB. And also we will reconvene on Thursday at 4 o'clock, and it will be here in the informal chambers. And another reminder for the council that the committee meeting notes are all due no later than December 31st.
 And for the clerk's office, this is also the last meeting of the year. So I wish everyone a happy holiday season for Christmas and Hanukkah or any other religious days that you recognize any of us and also for New Year's. Lastly, I need to entertain a motion to cancel the December 26th.
 date that was on our calendar for this year. So moved. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion carries. President McBride. Yes. I may have misheard, but I believe you said that the executive session for tomorrow was at four o'clock. It's on my calendar at three.
 It should be four o'clock, but I will, before we leave, let me go and get the confirmation, that information email. I believe the three o'clock may have been the tentative dates when it was being asked, but when the interviewees were contacted, four o'clock and five o'clock since we just have two of them.
 So it should be four o'clock. I will definitely make sure it's just as soon as before everybody get out of here. But I'm certain that it's four o'clock tomorrow and we have a second one at five o'clock tomorrow. After that, also the organizational meeting, as a reminder, will be January 3rd on Wednesday here at five o'clock in the informal conference room as well. That is for our organizational meeting. Is there any other new business?
 you have to vote on the calendar dates i'm getting ready to get to that to see after i see if anyone has any new business before i get to the last motion yes absolutely um this past week there was a matter that i told a city employee that i was going to address and she asked me to um there was a traffic jam inside of the parking garage on the corner of colfax and main street that traffic
 that came downtown to enjoy the Nutcracker for that particular day. I'm not going to go into the details of the traffic jam, but let you know that that's not only hazardous, but it's beyond me why we would want people to visit our downtown area and they can't move in and out of a parking structure in less than 30 minutes.
 So what I am going to say is what I received from the worker is that they're understaffed, they're not making enough money, and there needs to be another design to offer to our downtown area so people can park properly. Smart Streets didn't help us out with this one. As a matter of fact, it's part of the reason why there was a jam down there for over a half hour. People could not access or get in.
 or even leave the area because of the way that it's set up downtown. As we are moving into another year and obviously another budget, there has to be some special attention paid to the way that traffic is flowing downtown. People are going to really stop coming downtown because of that. They can't even access the parking garage. They can't get out of the parking garage. That hurts the Morris community.
 And that hurts the Century Center and any other venue that we have downtown that's supposed to support the growth of our downtown. Anytime somebody gets caught inside of a parking structure for over 30 minutes, there's a problem. Anything could have went wrong outside of just that. And then here we have a catastrophe.
 so I'm bringing that to the council because again no different than when I talked about with Mr uh Parker we control the purse strings we have to redirect and start talking about planning for our areas so that people are able to better use them and access them thank you thank you and if I can just ask did you reach out to um
 anyone from administration or would you like? No one answered their phones that day. I'm going to tell you how bad it really was. This is part of the details I don't want to talk about. Well, we can talk about it later. But I'm going to answer really quick. I called every person that I thought that needed a phone call. No one answered their phones, including downtown South Bend, who was responsible for that parking garage. Then I called the fire department, and they are the only department that responded that day.
 I'm so happy that nothing went wrong as it relates to somebody's health or other. I'm so happy about that. But no one answered their phone. No one was at work or no one chose to answer their phone. That's how bad it really was. So, yes, I did. I absolutely I did. I'm just asking to know what. I always check those boxes. I got you. They didn't answer the phone. No one. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Is there anyone else with any new business? With that being said, we have one more item that we need to approve is the 2023 Common Council meeting dates for 2023. Everyone should have a copy of the dates and have been vetted out. And thank you, Justin, for getting them confirmed and sent out to everyone. So we need to I need to have someone make a motion to accept the meeting dates for 2023.
 I'll make a motion that we accept these meeting dates for 2023. Second. It has been moved and seconded. All in favor? Aye. Any opposition? The motion carries. At this time, I'll open it up for privilege of the floor. Do you see anyone in the virtual audience that would like to speak at privilege of the floor?
 no there's no one from the virtual audience oh i'm sorry just oh it's not the virtual audience but the audience okay thank you please state your name and address uh justin lapley my office on the fourth floor um i just kind of want to touch on the minutes a little bit i didn't want to go before because i feel like it's good to kind of think what you want to say before you say it um so i've tried to reach out to specific council members individually i know i haven't reached out to everyone
 but I know I've grabbed the majority to discuss the minutes. I think I started this conversation back in July. It's been difficult. I understand you guys are busy, but I personally didn't receive too much information on help. I got a wish list. That was cool, but I didn't get any sort of positive, like good feedback, you know? So one of the things I decided to do was
 go to other Indiana cities and other clerks offices to see how they run it. And that's more, this wasn't just a willy-nilly, I wanted to get this stuff done so I could get back to my job. I did my homework. I saw how other offices were handling their minutes. I went to Fort Wayne. I went to Mishawaka, Elkhart, Carmel, and a few other places. I can't remember off the top of my head, but through that is what I kind of
 Kind of the process of creating the current process I have and understandably, you guys have. Mr. Justin, I'm so sorry. I don't mean to cut you off, but I do need to ask the parliamentarian a question because the minutes were on the agenda today and it was discussed. So we should not be able to discuss it today. But I would ask for you to please meet with me and with Troy and with.
 um eli and i'm definitely definitely not trying to take away but that is the robber's rule of orders that we cannot talk about that item about the minutes today i do have one other thing then that hasn't been discussed absolutely um our office has been having a pretty weird problem i figured i'd just kind of bring it up while we're all here together since we all have all the council members present we had this we're we've been having a problem where
 certain council members will pull us aside and talk to us in private and speak on behalf of all council members. And when we kind of bring this up to them, we kind of get gaslit saying, no, I didn't say that. Well, we've been having this back and forth that's going on. It's not everyone, it's actually the minority, but it has been happening. I just kind of want to bring that to your guys' attention. I think there kind of maybe needs to be a rule of just for accountability more than two people in these conversations. We've been...
 kind of getting blasted a little bit just due to certain council members speaking on behalf of all council members. And when I challenged them on it, they said, no, that is true, despite me going the day previously asking a council member that has a completely different opinion. It's, it has happened. We, I just want to bring it to you guys' attention so you know what's happening. I don't want to put anyone on blast just so you guys know it's out there. I'm,
 Once again, I'm not trying to call anyone out. I just want to let you guys know that this is a big problem we have been having. And we've been also having a problem with a very select number of council members that will  it creeps on the line of verbal harassment. With our office members, we've had my office members cry because they didn't like how they're being talked to. And it  I mean, I'm in the military. I've said some stuff and 
 Eye blushed. It's a very serious problem. We haven't reported anything to HR, but this is kind of a little fair warning. If you guys do come to us, just know that we're not kind of, our office isn't really going to take it anymore. Just so you guys know where we're at, because we do kind of deserve better than that. That's it.
 I definitely appreciate your comments and definitely welcome you to have a conversation with me as well. That's the first I'm hearing of that. And I definitely would like to have a broader conversation with you about that. Is there anything else with that? This meeting will stand adjourned.
 Okay.