Roku. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Prichin. Attee. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. We pledge to our flag.
 Thank you, Council Members. We will now have our invocation by the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President. Of course, it will come as no surprise to you all.
 that this Holy Week, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, nearly upon us, is unlike any in our lifetimes in all kinds of ways.
 unsettling and specific ways. As always, when we come to Easter and spring, we think about renewal and resurrection, but it seems as though the word resurrection and reset has special meaning as the pandemic has taken its toll and we think of how dead things need to have new life breathed back into them. And every council session.
 each of you is looking for wisdom and creativity and strategy and direction in how to breathe life back into your council districts and back into your council district businesses and schools and into everything that we do from the political side. And of course, I'm considering also the community of faith-based leaders as well. Passover for our Jewish friends and Holy Week for those within our tradition,
 The scripture that I love is actually from Luke 24, just two verses. The women get to what they assume will be the tomb and to use spices with the dead body of Jesus, but the angels that meet them ask them this question, why are you looking among the dead for someone who is alive? Yeah.
 Why are you looking among the dead for someone who's alive? He isn't here. He's risen from the dead. Remember what he told you. I think this is a season when we need to remember and cast back a ways to remember what resurrection looks like, what new life looks like, new opportunity. And we've seen, tragically, some of us have had friends and relatives who've passed.
 but now is a time that we are assigned you and the common council to bring new life from that that has been so dormant and in some cases dead for far too long. So I want to pray now in this holy week that that divine opportunity will be upon you even today as you deliberate. Let's pray.
 In this Holy Week, we recognize so much around us that has taken hard hits. The earth always takes the hits during winter, but Lord, this is...
 multiplied, multiplied, multiplied, death and hurt and pain and grief and loss. And now as we begin to see momentum return and normalcy begin to come, we pray, Father, for each of these elected leaders and for their districts that they represent. For everyone who has suffered, we pray that now will return on investment. We ask that there would be literally a reset and a resurrection. Amen.
 Thank you, Father, even now for those words that were spoken 2,000 years ago. May they breathe life into this council as it seeks your wisdom. And Father, even now, life, life, life from things that seem to have passed. And we pray even now, committing and submitting that to your precious hands. Give wisdom and direction today in session, I ask in your precious name. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you. Dr. Warner council members any memorials Council members scandal president. Thank You council president Um, I would ask that we all please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of Michael Fitzpatrick who passed away a little over a week ago Mr. Fitzpatrick is gonna leave a huge hole in several areas he I
 He grew up in the first ward in South Buffalo as a, he was actually an all American football player at time in high school and attended Boston University. After that, he returned back to Buffalo and he served almost 25 years on the Erie County legislature and also held several national positions with the Ironworkers Union in Washington, DC. So he is gonna be greatly missed by his family, the labor community
 and the government community and just people throughout the entire region. It's a tremendous loss and I would ask we all keep our family in his prayers. Absolutely. Councilmember Golombic? Thank you, Mr. President. The family of Stanislaw Markut is grieving him. He was a World War II Polish Army veteran.
 For those of you who have heard the song that is sung at Polish birthdays, they sing stolat, which basically means may you live to be 100 years. Well, Mr. Marikut was over 100 years, and so he made it to the stolat. But he lived an amazing life there.
 He lived under the Nazis, lived under the Soviets, fought against the Germans across Normandy and across France, came to America, lived for many, many years in the Fillmore District. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends, but he's going to be with many of his family and friends as well, we hope, during this Easter season. Thank you, sir. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you. I just wanted to echo the sentiments of my colleague, Council Member Columbeck. He really did live a wonderful life in the service to this community and, you know, in the service. And it's really quite honorable and a miracle when someone really does live up to Stolat. So I really appreciate that. So thanks, Joe. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Mr. President. In the Lovejoy District, we lost Angie Davis, who was a resident on Davie Street, and she was also one of our peacemakers. And so Angie, she dedicated her life to service. I can always remember seeing her at our neighborhood cleanups or any of our events. So she will be sorely missed. And we also lost several members over at our
 Alden Heights Apartments, specifically Nancy Denson. When I was a staff member, we used to drive, you know, the seniors take them on shopping trips bi-weekly, and Nancy was one of the ones who would always come, and I could tell she looked forward to it every week, but her spirits were always great, even though she was confined to a wheelchair. We lost Nancy, and then we also lost
 Willie Walker and Blair Davis, who were two other longtime residents of the center. So we just wanted to recognize them and our condolences to their families. Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, sir. Anyone else?
 Hearing none, we always recognize in this council those who may have given their life for the freedom of our country, the freedom of other countries around this world. All of those names that were called off, we now pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Council Member Revere, seconded by Council Member Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 16, 2021 are approved.
 Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting as we go forward. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? Motion to adopt item number 60. A motion to take out a board meeting.
 Okay. All right. Motion to take out of order item number 60, second by Council Member Glumman. Item number 60, discharge item number 21-50 from legislation. Motion to adopt the discharge. Motion to adopt the discharge, second by Council Member Bowman. Are we going from the top? From the top. From the top.
 Item number one, New York State Police Reform and Reinvention Collaborative Resolution. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number two, Report of Sale 1475 Amherst. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. I'm sorry. Can I pause one second? I'm having a delay with sound. We just need to pause one second.
 Okay, we're gonna try it again. Next item. I wasn't able to hear. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number three, report of sale 70 Brunswick. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number four, report of sale 454 Rhode Island. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes.
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Yes. Item number five, reported sale 322 to 332 Purdy and 81 Northland. Motion to send to seating. Second by Councilmember Fairlough.
 Item number six, South Buffalo Reconnaissance Level Historic Resource Survey. Motion to approve items six and seven. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferralato? Yes. Councilmember Golenbeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes.
 Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number eight, appoint laborer two. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number nine, New York State Aid and Incentivizes to Municipalities Payments. This is a late file. I think it was just information. Would you like to send it to finance? If the chair of finance would like it over there. Sure. I'm going to send it to finance.
 Second by Councilmember White. Item number 10, Busty Ave Street Calming and Bicycle Improvements. Motion to approve items 10, 11, and 12. Second by Councilmember White. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo?
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes, Mr. Chair. Council Member Wyatt? Yes, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am supporting this, but I'm expecting the next time that there are any additional items that need this inter-fund transfer, that we have more information in advance. Because this is not typical, what we typically do when it comes to us, it goes to the Finance Committee, not voted on during the Council meeting. So Mr. Finn said he would do so, so we expect that in the Comptroller's Office. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item. Item 13, February 2021 cash flow report. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 14, change order cold spring. Motion to approve items 14 through, can you scroll up, 14 through 20. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. Yes. Councilmember Golombak. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 21 report of bid CDBG year 46 curb and sidewalk replacement. Motion to receive and file items 21 through 26. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba.
 Item 27, permission request ICAT training. Motion to approve items 27 and 28. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Glombeck. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo.
 Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item 29 Buffalo River NRD Natural Resources Damages. Motion to send the CD and City Planning Board. Public hearing is set for 4-13-21. Second by Council member Fioriletto. Item 30 is withdrawn.
 Item 31, prior fiscal year claim for BFNC agreement. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Second by Councilmember Farrelletto. Mr. President, can I just have item number 32 be approved with conditions and that condition just being a one-year sunset? Absolutely, Councilmember. So noted for the record. Thank you. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes.
 Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 33, food store license 2756 Bailey Ave.
 Motion to send to legislation items 33 through 39. Second by council member Bowman. I believe that should be good at 35. My mistake items 33 through 34 are to be sent to legislation. Second remains the same. So noted that 35 was not a part of them. Item 35, food store license 472 normal. Motion to approve. Second by council member Wyatt.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Affirmative. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 36, food store license 1064 Sycamore. Motion to send the legislation items 37 through 39. 36. 36 going? 36 is unmarked. So that's going to legislation also? 36, Councilmember Nowakowski. Legislation please. Legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Items 36 through 39. Okay, second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item 40, Auction of Printers. Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Second by Councilmember Zolikowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Affirmative.
 Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 42, Liquor License Notices. Motion to receive and file items 42 through 44. Seconded by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item 45, IVF Coverage for Buffalo Employees. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Do you have your hand up, Councilmember? Yes, sir. Do you have the floor?
 Thank you, Council President. I want to thank you and the rest of the Councilmembers who signed on their support yesterday and the other Councilmembers for their support of this resolution. As I stated yesterday, as of January 1st, 2020, New York State mandates that any health insurance provided by employers in the large group market must include up to three IVF treatments for their employees. I think it would be safe to say, as I mentioned yesterday,
 Many of us, if not all of us, have known someone who has experienced fertility issues. In fact, at any given moment, somewhere around 10% of the population is battling one of these conditions. This mandate by New York State has been life-altering for those who have been previously unable to afford IVF treatments, as the cost can range somewhere between $12,000 and $20,000.
 The city of Buffalo, however, because it is self-insured, is exempt from the mandate. So this resolution is asking the city of Buffalo, and in particular the Department of Human Resources, to look into the feasibility of including IVF and FP treatments in the health insurance offerings to city of Buffalo employees. I...
 In addition, I know the cost is expensive, but if you take into consideration some of the treatments that we are currently offering and the fact that they are not as effective, ultimately the cost difference, I believe, is negligible. In addition to that, the emotional and physical toll that some of these treatments can take on these women is enormous.
 it's an incredible toll on them and their partners. So again, I'm asking that the commissioner of human resources report back to us sometime in the next two weeks about why we are, how we can opt in, what that process would be, what these potential associated costs would be. And so that we can move towards covering some of our, not some, but all of our city of Buffalo employees who are dealing with some of these issues and try and correct and help them out with this.
 I agree. And as I said yesterday, and thank you for allowing me to sign on this. I think that the advocate for this probably got to every one of us in order to talk about it and was very effective in her presentation. And so I was happy to sign off for this and thank you for the resolution. Council Member Scalzi? Yeah, I just I wanted to follow up on that as well. The advocates who
 proposed this to myself and I know they're making the rounds, the other council members have done an incredible amount of homework on this and have really come prepared and researched this and they'll be in to speak about it next Tuesday at our committee meeting. So I look forward to everyone hearing what they have to say because again, it was really impressive the amount of information that they gathered and they presented. Absolutely. Thank you for the resolution. Next slide.
 Item 46, citizen calls for citywide public campaign addressing blight of litter in Buffalo. Motion to send the civil service. Oh great this is blight and litter, my favorite. Second by councilmember Scampi. That's actually going to CD. What did you say? Motion to send the CD, second stance. Item 47, concerns interactions with city of Buffalo employees. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 48, request to speak regarding NBCDC contract concerns. Motion to send the CD items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 50, response to Councilmember Wyatt's proposed resolution regarding school zone speed safety program. This is a late file.
 We can send this to ledge where we have the other items and speed zone safety program second by councilmember why I
 Councilmember Watt? Do we have to send it there, Mr. Chair? Where do we have the other items? It's fine. I'm just being facetious. It's a little hilarious that the company who is penalizing or benefiting from the penalization of our residents is sending a letter saying that we shouldn't do this. That's all. Thank you. All right. Motion stands. Next item. Item 51, Letter Regarding 308 Highgate Residence Petition. This is a late file as well.
 What would you like to do with this one? If we could send this to community development and if I can speak on the item, Mr. Scher. Go into community development, seconded by Council Member White.
 This is an item that I want to apologize to the residents that should have been filed some weeks ago. But because of some internal issues, we didn't get it filed, but it is here now. I want to thank all the residents who stood up and got involved because there was something happening that Compass House was putting a facility for
 children, homeless youth in their district. And some people on the surface might think that, why are we fighting against that? Well, we're fighting because they weren't informed. So they wanted to open up a youth center or youth housing homeless shelter in their community without a single conversation to them, with them. And this has been going on, have been planned since September of last year.
 I don't know how many of you would allow anyone to come set up in your neighborhood, anything without community input. Not the resident to the right, not the resident to the left, not even the resident across the street knew anything about this other than seeing people preparing and rehabbing a house that for the last several years they've ignored and have not done anything, not even fixed up the garage.
 So I wanted to put this before the community and I expect the community next week to come out and speak on it again. Because Compass House is pushing back. I've talked to Commissioner Comerford, I've talked to Senator Kennedy, and they all support our stance that nothing should happen in our communities without the residents being affected.
 consulted with. And this is one of those issues. So this is an item that I want to have to send to community development. And I'm sure we're going to have robust conversation next week. Because I'm not going to step back off my insistence that Compass House find another location because they think that they can come into a neighborhood
 and feel as though that people who have already felt that they have been disenfranchised and disrespected, you're going to come in and set up something without any conversation with them. So I'm looking forward to having some conversation in committee. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Councilmember. And it won't be the first time that a nonprofit has tried to set up in a neighborhood. We have one try to set up.
 in a residential neighborhood for services. And it wasn't that people were against the services, they were against not knowing and not being informed. And in our situation,
 they were building a building from the crowned up and we were able to get the neighbors together and get that stopped and halted and even change laws that dealt with you know what who had to go to planet board who had to come before the council because the residents should be made aware so thank you for that next item
 Item 52, Special Use Permit 1462, Hurdle. Motion to send to the Ledge and City Planning Board items 52 through 56 or 57. 57 second by the President Pro Temp Scanlon. Submissions, Civil Service. Item number 1, amended Certificate of Appointment, Open Data and Analytics Project Coordinator. The motion is to approve items 1 including number 2.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Affirmative. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number three, appoint captain.
 The motion is to receive and file items number three through and including 10. Second by Councilmember Fairluck. Finance, item number 11, Declaration of Need. Motion to receive items number 11 and 12. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Community Development, item number 13, Report of Sale 317, CARE. Motion to recommit.
 Motion to recommit, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 14, letter to the New York State Vaccine Equity Task Force. Mr. Chair. Councilmember Wood? Yes. Motion to revisit item 13. Motion to revisit item 13, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Yes, motion to revisit. It's in front. Sending that to CD.
 You said you're sending it to CD? No, no, no. I want a motion to rescind it. Resend that motion to send to CD and the motion would be to approve. Motion to rescind. I'll second. Send it to CD. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Leddoff? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Fridgen?
 Yes, but what I will say for the record, because this is attached to a CDC that is often seen as attached to the church, I am not on the board of the CDC, nor do I receive any compensation. So I wanted to make sure that that was entered for the record. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Thank you.
 Item 14, letter to the New York State Vaccine Equity Task Force. Motion to receive and file and thank you to my colleagues for helping. Second by Councilmember Revere. Legislation item 15, dance hall license, your decoration destination. Motion to approve with conditions.
 Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. And Councilmember Bowman, you have the floor. Thank you, Council President. Just like to put a one year sunset on this as well. Thank you very much. So noted for the record. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Watton? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon?
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Affirmative. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 16, special use permit 75 Avery for non-owner occupied short-term rental. Motion is to deny. Second by Councilmember Revere. Councilmember Ferraletto, would we be receiving reasons for the denial? If you would like. I would. So I can prepare the denial notice. Thank you.
 Item number 17, special use permit 241 Tacoma for non-owner occupied short-term rental. Motion to approve items 17 and 18. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Wollin? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glanbeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes.
 Council Member Wingo? Affirmative. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 19, Special Use for Mint 443, Westbury for non-owner occupied short-term rental. This is in Majority Leader Rivera's district. So you can go ahead with the motion. Thank you very much, Chairman. Motion to approve? Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Golumbak. Council Member Buhlmann? Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Ringo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 20, Special Use Permit 235 Whitney for Non-Owner Occupied Short-Term Rental.
 Motion is to approve item 20, approve item 21 with conditions set by the planning board and the additional condition that the patio is closed at the exact same time that they're not allowed to serve food on the patio. Approving items 22 and yes, through 22. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman? Yes.
 Council Member Farrell-Aletta? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Affirmative. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Resolutions item number 58, interim auction for city resident owner occupant buyers. Motion to adopt items 59, excuse me that goes to
 Is that CD? Yes. It goes to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 59, set public hearing for conservation easement at Buffalo River. Motion to adopt items 59 and 61. 59, 60, 61. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 62, trailblazing resolution for Joe L. Fisher. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. There should be a motion to approve. Item 63 is to approve.
 Motion now is to approve items. We're on 60. Motion, sorry. The motion for approval is the trailblazing sign. All right. Did you record that, clerk? Yeah. It already has the second stance, second by Council Member. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Glombach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes.
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Affirmative. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 63, appoint marriage officer, go on back. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 64, Buffalo Police Reform Agenda. This item is open. Mr. Chair?
 Yes, sir. Do you have the floor? Yes, thank you very much. After the death of George Floyd, the governor of the state of New York created legislation, an executive order, requiring that municipalities, 500 and throughout the state,
 put together a reform plan to be submitted to him by April the 1st. In the plan, we were to review the needs of the community with regards to law enforcement, develop policy recommendations to offer a plan for public comment, and then to present it to the Common Council for ratification and certification to be sent to the Director of Labor.
 The commission was represented by 15 members, including two council members, various members of the community, and administration officials. During that time period we discussed a wide range of issues and concerns to them. Some of the issues were included in the recommendation by the administration, including
 the lead program, the diversion program for low-level offenders, which I thought was very important, which the community was clamoring for for a long period of time. It's been two years that they've been asking for this. The administration, the mayor had agreed to it. It's going to be implemented as a pilot project in B district. We talked about issues that were contractual,
 Some issues were legal, some issues were long-term, short-term. And we looked at the comments and there were people that felt some of the changes were inadequate or didn't go far enough. Others agreed with it. We want the public to know that this is an ongoing process. This is not the end.
 end-all document or resolution that we're sending to the state. The Common Council has worked diligently over the years under your leadership as well and have made many changes in regards to law enforcement. I give the Common Council a lot of credit for implementing many of the things, whether it's advocacy for body cameras,
 It's de-escalation. It's funding for training. It's the carry-on foreign law. It's the duty to intervene the carry-on law. It's also a need to know that you're working on right now. Along with that, we ask for certification that the police department be certified. We've asked for this for many years now. That's a collective bargaining agreement item. We talked about...
 other items that had to do with contracts and laws. So not all one size fits all. You can't take what works in New York City and apply it here in Buffalo. Sometimes they're different.
 So we made the recommendations and this document with the help of the Common Council and Councilmember Mitch Nowakowski, I give him and the Commission a lot of credit. We sat through numerous meetings over these last few months. As I said, you know, the Mayor established this back in September 18th. This Commission was set. We've had numerous meetings and
 We've heard and we continue to hear the general public. There'll be further opportunities for discussion for public hearings going forward and we'll continue to do that and we are listening. The tensions are there. Our goal is to dismantle racism and social inequity in the police departments and law enforcement here in Buffalo and throughout the country.
 and we have to do it as a systemic and we realize it. And we're going to continue to raise the level of professionalism. I did speak with the mayor and he's agreed to do an enhanced training for police officers, that every police officer is a community police officer, that each police officer, we need the police department to get out of its car and talk to the general public.
 that they shouldn't be fearful of them, that they should trust. And I think that'll happen when we start interacting with them. So that is part of something the administration, the mayor and I have talked about, and he's agreed to enhance that program, that training for all police officers. There were questions regarding schools, officers in schools. People didn't want to see their schools militarized.
 I found out just recently that it was the Board of Education that was responsible for hiring off-duty police officers, not the City of Buffalo. My understanding in conversation is that the Board of Education has agreed not to hire off-duty police officers. There are still resource officers that work in the schools.
 As I said before, we're going to continue to work along with your leadership and the leadership of the Common Council to enhance, to improve the relationship between the general public, the trust,
 that's out there. I want to thank all of the Commission members including Councilmember Mitch Nowakowski who was with us in making recommendations that this Council had advocated for so long. The LEAD program, especially, many, if we didn't get the LEAD program, I think people would say, people would say, what's, you know, why didn't we do LEAD?
 impacts the most vulnerable, the minority community, because they're incarcerated at a higher rate for low-level offenses. Well, this deals with that. This, to me, was very significant. So I want to thank Councilmember Mitch Nowakowski as well for the work that he's done on this. So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Councilmember Glumba? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I have a couple of questions. I think they're to be directed towards Chitora Donovan. I understand that she was the lead person with this commission that was put together, so I hope that she will be able to answer some of the questions that I have. I'm
 I want to thank David Rivera for explaining that, briefly giving us a little history of what this commission was. And I suppose in a way of what this commission is not, I think there's a lot of misinformation that is out into the community and
 you know, with people that are contacting us. I especially want to thank him for the comments about the officers in the schools, because I've had people that have, you know, been irate because I've hired police officers to be in schools. And I, you know, he looked at them and I said, well, that's not the case. You know, I think it's very, very important for people to get their, you know, their facts straight. And that's the only way that we're going to be able to do anything, you know, with the police.
 police department. Also, I concur with him that this has been an ongoing process. I remember talking to the mayor several years ago, more than several years ago, and talking to him about body cams, being supportive of body cams. As a matter of fact, I remember being at a meeting in 1417
 And there were a group of people in there that started protesting. I remember I got called a racist because I supported body cams. I'm still confused by that, to be quite honest with you.
 You know, this council has been involved. This mayor has been involved with piecemeal reforms in the police department. And my personal feeling is, is that in order to fix something like the systemic issues that we have in society in general is, is that there needs to be a process.
 that we follow. And I don't believe, and I'm sorry to say this, but I don't think that you're going to fix it in one fell swoop. You can't legislate people's feelings or whatnot. However, what you can do is...
 get rid of the chokehold and non-lethal holds in the police department that was done with the inclusion, you know, by the mayor with the support of this common council before the crisis happened last year. The point is, is that this council and this mayor have been looking at fixing the
 some of the problems that are in the Buffalo Police Department. And, you know, I know that we are irate about things that happen throughout the entire country, but I don't have any control as a City of Buffalo Council member about the horrible things that have happened elsewhere. But I do have control over the things that will happen in the City of Buffalo. And that, you know, I will take responsibility for. I will take responsibility for trying to fix the problems that we have in
 our police department. I think that this commission was an excellent first step. And I say that first step, this isn't the be all, this isn't the end all. And some of my questions are gonna go to Ms. Donovan. I think we'll explain a little bit further what my point in this is. But Ms. Donovan, thank you for being at the council. I guess my first question is that, you know,
 I had some people that contacted me that said, oh, this was the mayor's commission. You know, this was so-and-so's commission. You know, who actually controlled the commission? Who actually had votes on this commission? Yeah.
 Oh, thank you for that question, Councilmember Golombak. So I know that Majority Leader Rivera said that there were a certain number of people on the commission, and I will just delineate who that is exactly. So we had Leslie Bishop, who is a board member with Citizen Action of New York.
 We had Angela Blue of the NAACP and also of the Western New York Area Labor Federation. We had Ms. Lucy Candelario, she's the executive director at the Bell Center. Mr. Michael McCabe, he is a practicing attorney and a former assistant U.S. attorney.
 We had Elton Mitchell. He's a retired New York State trooper. We had Mr. Christian Parra, who's from the Free the People Western New York Coalition and also a community organizer for Citizen Action of New York. We had Brian Patterson. He's a clinical assistant professor of criminal justice at Medi College. And he's also a retired Buffalo Police Department chief.
 We had the Reverend Rochelle Robinson. She represented the Concerned Clergy of Western New York. We also had Dr. John Torrey, who's a professor of philosophy at Buffalo State College. And as consultants, we had Ms. Rebecca Towne from the Public Defender's Office.
 And we had Mr. Michael Keene from the District Attorney's Office. And of course, we were represented from distinguished members of this council, Council Member and Majority Leader David Rivera and Council Member Mitch Nowakowski of Ellicott District.
 So all of those individuals were the individuals who made recommendations on this commission. I was also an ex officio member of this commission, and it was not in my responsibilities to make any recommendations. I simply facilitated the meetings.
 Okay. Yeah, thank you. I really appreciate that you went through the list of people there because I think that one of the
 pieces of misinformation that is out there is that you know this was a commission that was put together by people that don't want to see any changes in the police department. You know listing those names I know many of those people and whether I've agreed or disagreed with them in the past I don't think that there's anyone there including my two colleagues from this council who are gonna rubber-stamp something you know for the mayor or for anyone else.
 You know, so I want to thank you for that. Is this document that we have in front of us, is this a binding document as it is right now, or is,
 is it and I think I know the answer already. I understand that there could still be changes made on this that this is not a finished project product. This is you could argue that this is the beginning and that we're gonna as Mr. Rivera said as we move forward one size does not fit all and that we're going to see problems that the city of Buffalo has that other cities or municipalities may not have probably don't have. And my understanding is that we can change
 this document as we move forward. Yes. And gentlemen, you have to excuse me. I apologize. I meant that Mr. Nowakowski is from Fillmore District. I was looking at council president and I said, so I apologize. But, you know, when when you read, I believe it's point number one on
 on this resolution be resolved that the city of Buffalo continues to be committed to sensitive police reform and improving the lives of the residents of the city of Buffalo. And point two is the city of Buffalo commits to the expansion of the Buffalo reform agenda, which is a living document that will change with time to suit the needs of the residents of the city of Buffalo. And the key is especially those who are underserved and underrepresented.
 So we viewed this process as a commencement, as a beginning to how we want to address police reform and also social reconstruction for those who need it most within the city of Buffalo. So this is not an edict by any means.
 This is a beginning to how we want to see Buffalo become one of the, you know, one of the best places for police reform and open place for police reform. So you know, we're not perfect by any means. And so we want to address the fact that we are not perfect.
 Changes do need to be made. And this is a council, a legislature that's open to change. The mayor's office is open to change. The Buffalo Police Department is open to change. Okay, thank you. So in other words, and I'm just reiterating this so that people that are watching this can understand, if we were to vote on this and if we were to vote to approve this item that is in front of us today,
 It can still be changed. And this council will continue to have bites at the apple. This is not a finished document by any stretch of the imagination. And so we will be able to continue to move forward with appropriate reforms. We will still be able to listen to residents,
 in our districts and throughout the entire city of Buffalo. It's my understanding that by approving this by the 1st of April, it will allow
 tens of millions of dollars to be used towards our police department, and we can use it towards a reform agenda. This council will have another bite at the apple, if you will, in the month of May, when we will be negotiating with the administration. And so if this council does, in fact, want to have certain items in front of this commission and push for certain reforms,
 We could do so in the month of May. It's not a be all end all by any stretch of the imagination. So I, for the record, would be willing to vote yes on this item today because we will be able to continue to make changes. We will be able to continue to move forward with reform. And of course, the problem is going to be not everybody agrees
 with what is needed for reform. There were some people that wanted to see $20 million cut from the police department. To them, that's reform. Well, I'm gonna state for the record right now, I'm not supporting that. I'm not gonna support laying off a third of the Buffalo Police Department. I had people that told me that was the only way we were going to have reform. I'm not supporting that. So if people don't like that, so be it. I will continue to work with Mayor Brown as I have done for many, many years
 and move forward with him and continue to do what hopefully can be done in the city of Buffalo. I'm going to share just one silly, ridiculous little anecdote. Part of the reason that we have these cameras in front of schools is because prior to the crisis of last year, I had a conversation with the mayor, and one of the things that we talked about was if you have cameras, the cameras are colorblind.
 and the cameras are going to limit the interaction with the police officers. And, you know, nobody likes getting a ticket. Nobody wants to drive down the street and have a police officer pull them over. And, you know, this was something I think, I don't want to say it was part of any reform agenda, but it was a way of keeping police officers, you know, and tickets colorblind, if you will. So in this case,
 it appears like maybe it hasn't worked so well, but there's been attempts. And I think that we need to continue to move forward. And I think that we need to continue to make attempts at making policing better in the city of Buffalo. And once again, also for the record, I have had numerous people who have contacted me that live in my district and some that don't live in my district that want more policing.
 in the area, and this is where there's a dilemma. Some people think that they have contacted the office that they have the only opinion and that they're the only ones that are right. Well, I have people who are absolutely petrified to drive in the neighborhood, senior citizens, people of every color, race, ethnicity,
 that are frightened because of the ATVs and things like that. And they're demanding more police protection. I see the potential with something like that opening up more problems down the road. But I'm going to say that I think that these are the issues that we on this honorable body need to be able to talk about and debate about in a completely rational manner. And
 and move forward. And I will, I'm stating categorically right now, I support in generic terms, Mayor Brown's reform agenda, because I think that he's been doing a good job. I think that we have a long way to go as every municipality does
 throughout this country, but I will continue to work with the mayor. I will continue to talk to the mayor on a regular basis about this. And I don't think that I have any special connection with the mayor, except that I will pick up the phone and I will call him and I will talk to him. I've had conversations with him about Chief Fahey in D District, outstanding chief. He's done a great job. I've let him know, here's the good things that are going on in the district. And
 And I think that all nine, all eight of us, all nine of us should be able to do that and should do that and should work so that we have a common good. Of course, the devil will be in the details, but I think that this entire council and the administration are trying to fix a problem that is nationwide, that we do have in Buffalo. And I will commit that I won't make everybody happy, but I will continue to move forward working with people
 including the people who are on this commission, who are not a rubber stamp of this council, who are not a rubber stamp of the administration, but that come from a wide variety of groups in the city of Buffalo, ethnic, racial, gender, et cetera. And I will continue to work with them. Thank you. Next council before I go to the next, thank you. Before I go to the next council member is I keep hearing that this can, I know the plan, our local plan,
 can be adjusted. I don't see anywhere in the executive order where we can amend what is sent by April 1st. So I'm just wondering, where is that that we can amend what the governor has received? Because what I'm reading is that they will make a decision on what we send for the funding. So is there a deadline where we could amend it?
 So, in the executive order, the requirement, and I'm going to read this to you directly from the executive order, or this is from the guidance from the governor, and it states while the conflict is real and the issues are complicated, we know in New York that denial or avoidance is not a successful strategy. So that's an important sentence. To that end,
 On June 12, 2020, I, Andrew Cuomo, signed an executive order requiring each local government in the state to adopt a policing reform plan by April 1, 2021. This order authorizes the director of the Division of the Budget to condition state aid
 to localities on the adoption of the plan. So I want to go back to the first sentence. In the second clause he says, we know in New York that denial or avoidance is not a successful strategy. So the policy implication behind this executive order was to force localities to adopt the
 less progressive municipalities to address the fact that there are policing issues in those municipalities. To it, the city of Buffalo doesn't necessarily have that issue. We are a very open city to police reform. It's something that's been done, you know, based on my research since, what I see since at least 1998, right? And even before that. So this
 tied funding, state aid to the adoption of a plan, not the amendment of that plan, not the amelioration of that plan. So there's nothing in here that says we can't change the plan, right? It's to show that this body and the powers that be are open to a plan at all of policing and then,
 obviously giving the governor and the division of budget and DCJS like a roadmap of how we see that happening and what our plan is. But, you know, there is always room to change and maneuver, especially as we look to more community interaction. So thank you for that. But so I keep hearing...
 we can always amend locally. But there is nothing, even in what you have read, that I see where we can amend the plan that the governor will receive
 Once he releases, once we vote on this plan, and I assume that's tomorrow, the question, well, I just wanted to make it clear that I don't see anything where we could amend it, that we could, for instance, in a week, send the governor a new plan.
 because it doesn't, it gives me a deadline. It doesn't say from this date to this date, the plan could be amended. It's a deadline and it's hard deadline from what I hear. Correct. And I just want the public to understand that this, we can always amend because we're the legislative body. We can make any change we want to at any time that we get the votes for and move forward. But this plan that the governor has asked for,
 at least from what I understand, and maybe Karen Gordon, if I'm misreading it, I'd ask you to make a deep dive into the executive order. Did you find any place where the Common Council could amend the document that's going to the governor's office? I think it's probably. Assistant Corporation comes with Karen Gordon. To your specific question, no, I haven't been able to find any
 any specific language like that in there, but I think both you and Chita are correct in that the live document that would be created for the city of Buffalo can always be amended and improved upon as we move forward.
 So I'm clear on that, but I just wanted to make sure because once we put out there that this document can be amended, it makes it seem as if the Common Council may come back or the administration and say, hey, there's four more things we want to send the governor. And once the governor gets, once they get this, they get it.
 But we can continue moving. And to your point, you know, this is a plan, right? Or, you know, it's non-binding. It's a commitment to a plan. And this is so that we can continue to get state aid to support the plan. And what we want to do is be accountable to the public.
 And so, you know, the commitments that we want to make are that any changes that are made to the plan we provide directly, you know, on our website, very transparently, directly to the residents of the city of Buffalo.
 Thank you. Councilmember Wingo, I see your hand up. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with what you said. No, this is not going to be amended in the sense that we can change what we send to the governor. But what this is in this context essentially means that what we're sending is just our plan to act.
 and everything on this document is not going to be amended or not going to be enacted. And then there are things that are on this document that are not on this document that will be enacted. And I think the public understands that
 I think they just wanted us to have more of a robust plan moving forward. And to your point, Mr. President, I do believe that the community and the constituents, the residents of the city of Buffalo are looking for a document that more reflects their sentiments.
 but at the same time, this document is to ensure that we, as a city of Buffalo, don't miss out and lose out on our funding. Of course, I've heard majority leaders speak several times a day on the LEAD program. If we don't approve this document,
 We will not have the funding necessary to ensure that we have the money to fund these essential and critical programs. So the community needs to continue to stay engaged, and I applaud their engagement. They need to continue to come to the table and make sure that their voice is heard to
 speak truth to power to ensure that their recommendations are at the table. The document that was amended that was sent to us does specifically speak to the, the, the, the, the community having a seat or a voice at the collective bargain agreement with the Buffalo, uh,
 Police Benevolent Association. So this document is a generic general document that will go forward to let the governor know that we are in fact doing what we can to move forward progressively in accordance to what the community is asking us to do. Again, I thank the community for their input. We absolutely should have further discussions about this. This is a discourse that needs to continue to happen.
 over the course of the next few weeks, the next few months, but I'm certain Mr. President, one more day is not going to be enough for the community and the residents of the city of Buffalo to have this document reflect all of their concerns. That's why this is a living document, not as necessarily the one that we're sending to the government, but this process will continue to evolve. The needs and the concerns of the constituents will continue to change.
 And that is something that we need to keep in mind. This is something that will never end. This fight, this cause is something that will never end. And with that being said, Mr. Chair, I really appreciate the discussions that we've had, but I would like to entertain a motion for us to adopt this document so that we don't miss on our funding. And if you should so call us to have a meeting and a hearing, an open hearing for the public,
 that should be done so. I'm going to make the motion that we adopt this document so that we can move forward with discussions with the community to ensure that we continue in this discussion to have substantive reforms and recommendations from our community. I would second that
 Well, there's a movement in a second, but we're in discussion. So I'm going to say this. If this council decides today, after I was asked yesterday to do a public, to do a special meeting tomorrow, and then I gave my opinion that this document needs a public airing.
 I gave my opinion yesterday. I'm going to give my opinion again today, since there's a first and a second. And then if the majority of council members want to adopt this item, I want it to be publicly known, I do not support it. And I do not support it today, not based on the document. I don't support it based on the process. I have in front of me, since I did ask that we have this discussion tomorrow, and since we are having it today,
 then I'm here for it today. I have in front of me a document, Developing Your Collaborative Plan, that came from the same governor that is asking us to do the plan.
 In here, it gives the work plan of how this document was supposed to go to the community. And I'll say it again, trying to work through this, the census on the floor, and there's a first and there's a second. I want the public to know why, if we vote on this today, and now we have to vote on it today, because there's a first and a second, why I'm going to vote no.
 I'm not voting no because I don't agree necessarily with the document, although I do think that there are some other things that need to be there. I agree. Everything is not going to happen at one swoop. However, when you have a document that is this heavy going to the state of New York saying that this is our plan now,
 I'm going to say it again, this is our plan. And there, after the plan came out, and it was changed with even the last 24 hours of us in caucus. Now, in my humble opinion, there should be at least a public airing, and we only have one day.
 So the meeting was to be tomorrow, and I was very clear that if the meeting was tomorrow, we would hear from the public. I invited the administration to come to explain why certain things are not there. It didn't mean that they were going to be there, but to explain. So this document says that basically the first planning stage was to be this, phase one, planning, August to September 2020.
 That was supposed to happen. Phase two, listening and learning. That was supposed to happen September through October. And let me read exactly what came from the governor's office. Listening sessions. Conduct listening sessions with the public. You may want to organize these sections thematically or focus on meeting with individual stakeholders separately.
 engage experts, request comments and information from September to October that was supposed to happen. All localities will release their draft plans for public comment before completing this process. That's part number two. Phase number three was supposed to happen or suggested to happen November through December of 2020. It says draft a plan.
 Identify areas of focus after evaluating the current state of your law, enforcement agency, and getting feedback. Identify those issues. Identify measurable goals, it says, in the areas identified as needing reform. Identify what success will look like in the short and long term. Articulating measurable goals will help focus your policy development.
 In between November and December, it says, draft a reform and reinvention plan. Decide what format your final product will take. You may choose to solicit suggested language from stakeholders to help facilitate drafting. Keep the public engaged November to December 2020. Now, phase four, public comment and ratification from January to March 2021.
 Release your draft plan to the public. Executive order number 203 requires that these plans be posted for public comment. In fairness, it was for four and a half days. Consider diversifying the ways the public can share feedback in writing and at events.
 Educate the public. When releasing your draft, think about how you and other key stakeholders involved in the development can explain the proposals to the public. Consider holding events, engaging the media, publishing an op-ed. Then from January to March, revise the plan to incorporate public comment. Ensure the public comment is addressed in a meaningful way in your final plan. Consider how you will address those comments, which are not adopted.
 and those that highlight areas of tension and disagreement among members of the community or between community members and the police. Ratify the plan after public comment and finalization of a plan. The executive order requires that the local legislature adopt or ratify the proposal. Build in sufficient notice and time for this to occur
 before April 1st, 2021 deadline, then certified. And then it does talk about moving forward. So if this council would like to vote on this today, I am very much in the negative. I'm very much in the negative of voting on this without, and those who say, well, we've heard from the public. We heard from the public because the public was outside.
 My fear is if we don't do this right, the only thing I ask for, hear from the people who vote for us. That's it. And if we don't do this right, we'll hear from the public again. And I know I see a hand up. Someone had their hand up. Well, one second before, Mr. Chair, before...
 Yes, I just had a quick question for Chitora. I know Council President Pridgen just went through that timeline. Can you report to us on the timeline that this commission has
 Matt and took other actions or did not take other actions. Sure. And so, um, uh, council president is, is reading from this guidance, which is about, I think a hundred and it's, it's over a hundred pages of guidance, about 150.
 20 to 150 with footnotes and references and all kinds of things. And so included in that guidance, which went through policy, you know, programs, different, you know, different government agencies and things that we could engage with was also a proposed timeline. In fact,
 When Governor Cuomo released this executive order, or not too shortly thereafter, in fact, he referenced the work that had already been being done in Buffalo as a model for this collaborative.
 So along the way, we had already been in compliance with this executive order. We had meetings with community groups, individual meetings. We also had press conferences publicly. We were doing audits.
 a lot of the things that are outlined in that timeline for the Commission specifically, our first meeting, let me be exact, our first meeting, the Commission was established in September. We had our first meeting on November 18th. At that meeting,
 We also, we introduced everybody to each other. We did an overview of the Buffalo Police Department, what they do now, what they've done historically. And we also looked at the guidance from about eight can't wait.
 And we use the eight can't wait guidance as a part of, you know, how is the Buffalo Police Department doing already? And where do we need to go from there? The second meeting was on December 2nd. Another overview of the Buffalo Police Department and what we were doing in the Buffalo Police Department now and historically. We also talked about amnesty programs.
 less than lethal use of force that this body has voted on in the past things like tasers and Bola wrap. We also talked about the say their name reform package that New York state passed in the summer.
 and how an individual can report a complaint to Internal Affairs, all the different ways they can do that throughout the Buffalo Police Department and the City of Buffalo. Our third meeting was on December 12th.
 And again, we went over our, we restated our purpose and why this commission was put in place. And we talked about social reconstruction so that we could not only address police reform, but also systemic racism that we've seen for so many generations.
 within the city of Buffalo and what needs to be done to address that systemic racism holistically throughout the city of Buffalo. We talked about the Buffalo reform agenda and at this meeting, we really hammered home that the members of the commission, we were looking to them for guidance on what the recommendations to be put forth to the mayor
 should be or would be, that we needed those recommendations from them. Right? And so we also, throughout this process, provided various forms of information. We had a Google Drive where, you know, we housed all of any information that folks needed. They could go in there, do research, they could provide us with their own research, and we would give it to the rest of the members
 So our fourth meeting was on January 8th. We talked about a diversion program or
 or actually a restorative justice program. You can, the actual acronym escapes me of what it means, but it's a community action network where you help youth who have, you know, been through the criminal justice system return, you know, restore back into our community and, you know, things like that, that we really wanted to have a restorative piece to our recommendations.
 And then our next meeting was on February 18th. And at the January 8th and the February 18th meeting, both of those, we allocated a significant amount of time to the members of the commission to give their recommendations. And even, you know, some of the folks on the commission who gave us their recommendations, who provided their recommendations throughout that process.
 They also said, you know, I'm getting, you know, people are sending me their recommendations. This is what I'm hearing from the community. And also, you know, along the way. So this document that we see here, these recommendations are shaped from the Commission.
 These are shaped from the commission and along the way we continue to meet with people from and throughout the community according to the guidance that we received from the executive order. Okay, so the last meeting was on February 18th? We had one final meeting yesterday to review all of the public comment.
 And specifically, the question was, you know, based on the public comment, did anyone have any specific items that they wanted to see included in these recommendations from the public comment? And we did that yesterday. Okay. And how was the public comment taken after the report was released? And when was the report released yesterday?
 The resolution, the draft of the resolution was first released, I believe it was on March, March 23rd or March 22nd. And the comment period ended on March 26th and an individual could leave a voicemail.
 which we checked multiple times a day, or they could send an email, which we also checked multiple times a day. And the commission was provided with a Word document that had all of those comments in there that were submitted by 11 a.m. on Friday, March 26th. Okay, I appreciate that. And I know I wasn't
 I was, I did not serve on the Commission. I know two of our colleagues served on the Commission. So this isn't, I don't want to, I'm not criticizing anyone's role in anything. I understand what Council President is saying because on the Council, we get feedback, we get a lot of feedback from the residents saying they want to speak about X, Y, or Z. And,
 And I understand that people in the public will say they didn't have input because they didn't see the document until after we had to vote on it. And I know if we do have a special session tomorrow, I know we have to give at least 24-hour notice. I don't even know who's going to be able to attend on such short notice. So that being said, I wish we could have had a bit, some sort of public hearing so they could respond quickly.
 in a different way before we had to vote on it. But however, I still think, I mean, I think it's very important that we do vote on this. I don't think we can, we're in a position to be losing a significant amount of state funding. And I think it's important that we figure out a resolution to this today before the end of this meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Just to reiterate, the reason why I made the motion in the first place is so that we can get on with the people's business, which is to set up any open hearing that we should so choose to. But to ensure that we are not doing anything that would delay any delivery of funds so that we can continue with the people's business would be for us to vote on this today.
 any dereliction of knowing for us to do the irresponsible thing and not vote on this today i think we need to vote on this today you've made your point and your position very very clear i think a lot of people can appreciate that however i believe that as a council we have to ensure that the the mayor has resources to do the execution of his job which is to ensure that the uh different departments have funding to do what they do we do not have to stop here
 We can continue our work after this has been adopted by the Common Council so that we don't lose any funding. We can continue to keep pressure on the administration and any other entity that may come up that should suggest any changes to this document or to this reform agenda. We can continue as a legislative body of government to do our job, which is to continue to write substantive policy and legislation.
 What is your favorite thing to say? It's about the policy. We go back to the policy. Let's go back to the policy. We don't, we're not taking anything from the people of the city of Buffalo by simply adopting this today. We're not taking anything from them. We are ensuring that we provide them sufficient time, not just within the next 24 hours, but
 but provide for them sufficient time in a committee or in any other type of area that we can have an open forum or open hearing so that we can collect their opinions in this document. All 19 tenants in this document is included in area for the community to be part of the collective bargaining agreement. We did that, we did that. And that was one of the things that was added just yesterday
 And that is why I believe the administration wanted another day to amend the document that they sent. So I believe it is in the city's best interest to adopt this document and continue the conversation that we've been having. That is why I put forth the motion to adopt this resolution today. If we should have a special meeting on Thursday so that the folks have 24 hours, the people of the city of Buffalo has 24 hours to respond and to avail themselves, then so be it.
 But we will, as the Common Council, continue the conversation. We will, as the Common Council, collect the information and the opinions and the recommendations of the residents of the city of Buffalo. Because right over your head, Mr. Council President, right over your head right now, reads these words. The will of the people reflects the Council's will. The Council's will reflects the will of the people. We reflect the will of the people. The will of the people is to make sure that the recommendations are heard. And this document does not stop us from doing that.
 This document does not stop us from having another meeting in the very near future to ensure that the reform agenda has included all of their most recent recommendations. So this document is not the end all be all, as my colleagues have stated before. This document is not the end of the reform agenda. This is like Ms. Donovan said so eloquently, the beginning of a long process of ensuring that the police reform agenda
 is up to date and relevant to the people who live in the city of Buffalo. I think with that, Mr. President, I stand with my motion to adopt this resolution. The, in a personal way, what is being taken away is transparency. It's my feeling. Transparency. And yes, we are to
 the voice of the people. And the simple request I had is to hear those voices. It is a long, when we say that it's going to be a long process, it's been a long hundred years. It's been a long time in history. I have never in my lifetime, my adult lifetime, and definitely not on my time in the council, had as much momentum for any one item across, not just the city of Buffalo, but across this entire country.
 And although the process we teach that I'm hearing, you know, it's going to be a long process. People are not trying to wait for a long process. People want the process to really move. And part of what I just read is not, unfortunately, what I see in this document, the measurable goals. What are we measuring?
 And I want to be clear because I keep hearing about the funding. I said I'm willing to call a meeting tomorrow, but there's a motion on the table that was just made and a motion seconded. So not only did I get painted in the corner by the dates in which we received it and the public could not then speak to this body, but now I'm being painted further in that corner.
 by a vote to move this today without hearing from the public. And I'm good with that because... No, no, no, no, Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair, wait a minute. That's not fair. I've got the floor and I waited until you were done and I'm going to finish my statement. So now I am further in the corner because of one issue that I've asked for, to hear from the people who had put us here. I just read...
 what the recommended schedule was. There's a portion of this, and Councilmember Wyatt, I'm coming right to you because you were next to have the floor. There's a portion of this that I read that talks about the transparency. And even in that 110, it says collaborative, and I'm just reading the document, is the key word.
 It would be a mistake, according to the governor's office, to frame these discussions as an adversarial process or an effort to impose top-down solutions. Issues must be aired, but solutions must be crafted. Another portion of this says your process will not be successful if it simply restates the current functions.
 strategies and operations of the police department without deep and probing consideration of the perspective of those who seek reform. And so my point is, is I'm not trying to hold up any money. I said I would call a meeting, say we had a vote. I want the city of Buffalo to receive the money. I'm not saying that something is wrong or right with the document. What I am saying is a document
 this big and that has as much weight as this document does for making a statement of the city of Buffalo's leadership that it is important to hear from the people. That would have happened tomorrow and then we would have had a vote tomorrow, but we obviously are having a vote today. Council Member White, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I sat here patiently listening to my colleagues
 in some of the cases, some of the BS we heard. And it's unfortunate because as today, I'm watching the trial of George Floyd, which set off this firestorm of reform. And I'm listening to one of the witnesses and how she recounted what happened to him. And she was only 18 at the time. And she talked about, she thought about her brother. She both thought about her father.
 She thought about her little cousins that were black and brown. I think about George Floyd. I think about Ahmaud Arbery. I think about Richard Brooks. I think about Daniel Pru, Breonna Taylor, EJ Bradford, Alton Sterling. I think about them right now at this critical time. And I think about those civil rights people who stood up in the midst of death,
 for the rights of us that what we have today. And I'm sitting here now with some folks who just feel like this is nage flair, it's okay, we can come back another day. But I'm gonna say again, why was the timeline followed? Why wasn't the community input allowed? Why wasn't all that done in a timely fashion? Why did we get this on March 22nd? Why did that happen?
 if it wasn't a plan to put the council in a bad position, if we really wanted to see real reform. Why didn't it happen as the governor outlined so eloquently? We talk about eloquency, we talk about someone that actually cares about reform. I think he put out a nice timeline that the community should have been involved in. But my colleagues here who have no sense of this time
 Because they just put their hand up acting like powers in a fist. Well, it isn't just a hand fist. It's in action. Councilmember? Point of order. Point of order. Point of order. Yes, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. We just want to continue on on this same course
 and not look at real change. The community came out loud and clear, consistently on those changes. And we talked about a civilian review board, a citizen review board,
 Every other city in the state of New York, for the most part, Rochester, Syracuse, Albany, New York City has a civilian review board. But no, not in Buffalo. It wasn't part of the recommendation. Point of order. It was ignored. Point of order. That was before the Common Council, but it was ignored.
 There was a lot of other things talking about evaluations and things that was added, but that the real reform was a citizens review board, but that was ignored. And so I stand on the backs of those who came before me who unbought and unbossed to stand for the right thing at right now. The time is now. It's not tomorrow. It's not tomorrow.
 Because if there was a tomorrow, and if they really were sincere about tomorrow, they would allow for the public input. They wouldn't put forth a motion to vote on this today because we could have heard from the public tomorrow. Even though it had been a short window, we still could have heard from them, but they didn't even want to hear from the public in one day. So why should we believe that any change is going to happen? We're going to continue to get the same dog and pony show. I'm concerned. I'm concerned.
 I'm concerned about the people who have been victimized by policing, the wrong policing. And here we have advocates who have been strong and done their research, just like the people who supposedly on this commission who did research. I was told there were only four meetings. That shows that there was some sensitivity and compassion and due diligence for this. Yeah, there was a lot of due diligence. That due diligence was...
 kick to the corner. It was just a couple of people having a meeting. We're introducing ourselves for a whole day, but no real reform, no real conversation took place. And the people who attended that conversation should have been there, but they weren't invited. They were included. They were ignored. Point of order on the question. When we talk about moving on this item, I'm very concerned.
 Because we don't have tomorrow. If we had tomorrow, if there was a real consideration, we would have did like some of the other mayors of some of the other cities, like Keisha Lance Bottoms from Atlanta, Muriel Bowser from DC, Lori Loutfoot from Chicago. Point of order on the question. Lauren from...
 Rochester, real progressive moves. Point of order, Mr. President. Point of order, Mr. President. I can't hear everybody. Point of order on the question. The point of order is he is off topic, not discussing the question that is on the floor. The question on the floor is the motion to adopt this document. Thank you. He can speak to the document. He can't speak about another council or to another council. And he is not speaking to the document.
 Speaking to the issue on the floor. He is not speaking to the document. The question of the floor is to adopt a motion. We want to interrupt you because they have no other agenda. Out of order, Mr. President. Out of order. Councilmember Wyatt, I'd just like for you to stay about not for the people who are on this call by Robert's rules of orders, but you can speak about your feeling of us either voting on this, not voting, and why. Okay, before I was interrupted, Council President,
 I'm very angry and I'm just as angry as the people who kept coming day after day marching in the midst of a pandemic, risking their lives for us to make a decision and not to be afraid to be undaunted to make serious change. This governor stepped out.
 And he gave us an order. And that order should have been given to us and we should have been, they should have followed it, but they didn't. They didn't follow it, they ignored it. And so now we have on the mo-, on the floor a motion to not hear from the public, which is just insane. How do we do that in good conscience? How can anyone in good conscience vote on this item today when the public was not given the proper notice?
 That's what the governor said. Are we going to follow his notice or not? Or we're just going to cave in to this idiotic approach to doing something that's bigger than many of us. And so I encourage my colleagues to allow for another day for us to vote. I truly could care less if we voted on it today, if we just let it fall. Because unfortunately, we were back in the corner.
 We weren't given a proper respect. This council has been manipulated far too long, far too long. We could have did this and we could have had public input and then we could have voted. I would have been fine with that. That's what we've been doing. Many of us, we're transparent. We don't have any agenda, but to serve the people who put us in our positions. So with that being said, Mr. Chair, I think the right time is always right to do right.
 And I will not be voting for this item if we move forward on it. And I'm compelling, I'm asking my colleagues to give us another day. Let the community come forth and speak to the item. Council President is going to call a meeting tomorrow. We can hear from the public. And then if we have to make the decision, I'm fine with that. That's a democracy. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo, you have your hand up.
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just making sure you can hear me. The point of the motion is not to silence the people. The point of the motion is to ensure that we don't lose funding so that we can continue the work of the people. That is the point of the motion. And for anyone to not vote on this, they have this your prerogative.
 But as for me, I feel that my constituency put me in this office to make certain decisions such as these to ensure that we can continue the work, enable and empower the mayor to continue to fund programs that are meaningful and substantive.
 Now, to accuse other council members of their reasons why they're voting for this or not voting for this, I think is irresponsible and disrespectful and quite disgusting. I'm not going to assume unless you tell me the reasons why you're voting or not voting. And Mr. President, you made that quite clear. And your position is respected. However, we all know.
 everyone on this Common Council. We all know that it does not matter if we vote on this tomorrow or today. The problem is we have not given the community enough notice to actually have a meeting for tomorrow, unless we have a meeting in the evening tomorrow.
 Now, again, I made the motion because I believe we can continue this conversation tomorrow, Thursday, Friday, next week, Wednesday. Pick a date.
 But in order for this to go through, in order for us to meet our deadline, let's put the motion through. It was amended as late as yesterday evening, as well as the commission met as late as yesterday evening. And as far as the timelines, all of the timelines, Shatora Donovan just literally recited every single meeting.
 That was had by the commission of which you appointed, Mr. President, two people of which Mr. Rivera and Mr. Nowakowski were a part of. Now, however often they came back to this council and gave us an update, that's another story. That's another issue. But that definitely is another story. Now, as far as my colleagues not being informed, it's as simple as asking a question.
 We could have asked you, Mr. President, since you appointed the two council members, we could have asked you at any given time, where are we in this process? But neither I or my colleagues did that because we trusted your appointments to do what they did, which was represent the council on that commission. Therefore, my motion is...
 is a legit motion, and I think we should motion, vote on this motion, to either adapt or not adapt. You've made your position clear, Mr. President, again, and it's respected.
 Therefore, again, we can have this conversation any day, anytime, but we have a deadline to meet to make sure that our city does not miss out on essential and critical funding. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Corporation Council, am I correct that the 24-hour notice can be waived?
 Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, yes, in certain critical time, I do believe the code allows for us to have shorter notice.
 So I know that in the past that we have waived the 24-hour notice when we were requested to have a special meeting. So that could, I'm going to hear from the other council members. And then obviously we have to make a move because there's a first and a second. But I want to give other council members, I think Council Member Fairletter, you had your hand up.
 Yes, I did. I think that it's my recommendation that we should either, like right now, set the time for a special session tomorrow and see if we have five votes to do that because we have to send the notice out. And each minute we talk here is less notice for the public to be aware of it. Or in the alternative, if we don't have five votes to do that, then we should vote on it today. That's my...
 You can't vote on the meeting for tomorrow because there is already a motion on the floor that has been moved and seconded. So that has to play out, you know, if it's not withdrawn from both of them. So we have to vote on the request to vote on this document today because it's in front of us. That's the item that's in front of us and what was moved. Are there any other colleagues that want to be heard on this issue?
 Okay Councilmember Bowman. Thank you Mr. President. I would be in support of a hearing tomorrow to move this forward to further hear from the residents. I do not want to lose the funding as several other colleagues mentioned but I would be in support of having the hearing tomorrow. Thank you. All right so again what is before us is the motion to
 Is it an adoption? Adopt this plan today. That's what, and I apologize for the echo. I'm trying to fix it. Is to adopt this plan today. And if there is no further discussion, we would have to hear that first. And so what I will do, because there seems to be some differences, is I believe we're going to have to have a roll call vote on this. Council Member White.
 Mr. Chair, can I make an amendment to this before we vote or do we have to vote first? I'm amenable to that. I'm amenable to that Mr. Chair. What is it? I'm asking that the we add these requests for to add a civilian review board and also put in that we want a budget line of $300,000 for a civilian move were by May 1st. Can I add that? Not amenable to that Mr. Chair.
 All right, so the motion is before us. Hearing no other discussion, roll call. Council Member Ballman. Council Member Scanlon, is this on the item before we go to the roll? Yeah, it's a question. So currently you're voting on the resolution as presented prior to the meeting or including an amendment which has been presented by Council Member Ballman. No, the amendment was not accepted by the mover. Thank you. Just wanted to clarify. Roll call. Roll call.
 Council Member Buhlmann? No. Council Member Farrelletto? No. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Quick question. If I vote no, does that mean that we can have public comment tomorrow? Yes. I would call the meeting for tomorrow. Okay. No. Council President Pridgen? No. Council Member Rivera? No. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Arrundo?
 Councilmember Wyatt? No. That is three, two, six. Excuse me. Can I go back? I am on my vote. I am the sponsor of this resolution and I'd like to change my vote to yes. I am the sponsor of this resolution to vote against it. I just can't do it. I understand.
 the position, the sentiments of each and every council member. This is an opportunity to continue to move forward. So I'll vote yes on that and I'll take that. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, I respect all of the decisions of my colleagues and I was never against a meeting tomorrow. Like I've stated several times during the course of this meeting, I'm not against meeting with the constituents to make sure that we hear their voices.
 But I do believe that we failed today. We failed and we failed miserably. The community will not have, you know, our vote be heard today in an affirmative so that we can assure that we get the funding by the first of the month.
 So now we'll be rushing. Mr. Chair, now we'll be rushing. The item has already been voted on, so there's really no other discussion on the item. But I'll allow it to just allow you to wrap it up. Mr. Chair.
 Yes. Council Member Wingo, are you finished? I'll finish with this. Again, I just want to make it perfectly clear that I am not against any public meeting, like I've stated several times in the past, is that I believe that we failed today. That's all, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski? Mr. Chair, I'm trying to remain calm, but I'm really upset. If...
 if it is a no vote really mean i i mean i of course i i will vote i want to rescind my vote to vote for the document but i also want i mean my vote is not contingent i want to also hear from transparency for tomorrow if you want to have a public hearing tomorrow i will have a public hearing tomorrow i'm just super confused i made a vote so there won't be a special meeting tomorrow
 If the right now there would be a special meeting tomorrow and there would be a vote on the item tomorrow in the special meeting, which would give then the public the ability to have voice on the plan. And then after we hear from the public, there would be a vote. So there wouldn't be a loss of funding. The city has until April the 1st.
 And so just for clarity, so that everybody understands, city has to April the 1st.
 As the motion stands right now, we would call a public meeting for tomorrow at 2 o'clock. The public would be able to call into the council staff's office who want to be heard on the issue. We hear the public, and then we make a decision. It will not take away the funding. If the
 the votes change to say to a majority saying yes to accept the plan. I have no reason to call a public meeting because the document would already have been voted on. Mr. Chair, if I could say wait just a minute, Mr. Wingo, Council Member Wingo, I want to make sure the person who has the floor understands. So what is this vote on? Just a clarification, it's for the policy,
 It's to accept the, to adopt the resolution that was submitted by Council Member Rivera that would then move the plan to the governor's office. I mean, because couldn't we still, you know, take the remainder and move it to committee to still have a discussion? There wouldn't be a vote. No. So there wouldn't be any item to vote on. We'd be finished with the item.
 It's not like when it comes to us and it's going to committee and we're going to vote and then send the remainder. This document as a whole, once we say yes today, what we are saying is, is that we have ratified this plan.
 So it can't be one or the other because I'm not going to call a special meeting for something that we already voted on because it's the same thing. But would we change anything tomorrow? Would we amend it tomorrow? Possibly. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo, I want to finish up with the council member who has the floor. Yeah, I'm just...
 I want to finish up first. I understand that, but I was trying to help clarify. No, I'm going to help clarify. And I want you to wait until you acknowledge, sir, so that we don't have a meeting with everybody jumping in. Yes, sir.
 Yes, sir.
 My yes vote will then be translated to that I don't want to hear from the public. Of course I always want to hear from the public. I just think that's unfair, and I'm really upset right now. And, you know, when I did vote, I thought it was contingent upon having a public meeting, but I would like to change it to yes. It is, and I'll come to you, Councilmember Wingo. It is, I mean, so again, the upsetness hopefully is not with this chair because, you know,
 I was asked yesterday at two o'clock, at two o'clock, to hold a special meeting on Wednesday. I all day have said I will hold that meeting so that we do not lose funding. But what was important to me in holding that meeting is to make sure we hear from the public.
 Voting today, now anybody can have a public meeting or have a public hearing. You all can later, but this document would move forward today immediately when we're finished. So the public discourse that I've requested will not occur. I mean, for this document.
 It can occur for police reform, but it can't, for this document, it goes to the governor then. So, and I understand you're upset because I am too. I didn't create the timeline. I got what was handed to me. And if they had to utilize...
 if the collaborative plan, the developing your collaborative plan, would have been filed, we wouldn't be here right now. So I want to be clear. I'm only, I got it, I got a call to first pass it today. Then, which I was fine to do tomorrow. My only concern was the public had not seen this document to be able to say to us as a council, this is how I feel. Whether we change it or not,
 part of this what the governor has asked for is the transparency. Absolutely and Mr. Chair I am fully in transparency. I said on this commission when any of my colleagues could have asked me for months on what the status was or could have opined and asked me and I fully communicate with all my colleagues who I actually have a relationship with everyone and I take pride in that and
 I just, I don't know. I feel like this is a terrible situation. And, you know, I feel like I was thrown under a bus and I hit every tire on the way down. And I just want to clarify the vote that, you know, I'm voting in the affirmative for the document that this commission and I sat on and worked on.
 And I was confused at the moment. So that would change two votes, which would then, I think we... If I may interject, yes, if I may interject, I'm council president. I believe we may need to do this over and have Bethany recall because there might be a little bit of confusion as to
 who voted how and whichever way if the vote is, if this motion is not approved or the motion does not follow then I think we would have to call or see if there's anybody who wants to make a different motion. In that way at the end we can have this whole session cleaned up and we'll know what to do with the document once it's finalized.
 Thank you. So your suggestion is to recall the vote? Have Bethany recall, yes. I agree. I totally agree. Council Member Nowakowski? If we get a majority no vote on this resolution, does that mean that we lose out on the funding? Absolutely not. It means we have a special meeting tomorrow at 2 o'clock, and we invite the public to come in and to be able to give their opinion on the documents.
 It does not mean, and thank you for asking that, it does not mean we have until April the 1st. Mr. Chair. Mr. Nowakowski was keyed up. You can give it to my colleague from Madison District, please. Say that again, Mr. Nowakowski? Councilmember? You can give it to Councilmember Wingo. Okay, Councilmember Wingo?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Nowakowski has every reason to be upset right now because the people are confused. The council members are confused. There is no reason why we can't have a meeting tomorrow if we adopt this today. No reason at all. It's all about your prerogative as the president. You're the one, Mr. President, and you know this. I'm just saying this for the community's sake.
 who can call a special meeting for tomorrow. You have my vote to have a meeting tomorrow, but I'm also voting for this adoption today. We can do both. And tomorrow, we can always choose, because we are the council, to send any other additional documents with this one. So it's nice when I say that we can't. We send documents to New York all the time. We send documents to Albany all the time.
 A no vote today does not mean a meeting tomorrow. A yes vote today does not mean we don't have a meeting tomorrow. We can do both. We can vote yes today and have a meeting tomorrow. I respectfully disagree with you. I have no item for a meeting tomorrow.
 The item, once we vote on it, it goes. It has been discussed over and over that there is no amendment to the state. When this is clocked into the state, it is what it is. It goes forward.
 If there is a desire for a meeting, then the motion that you made would have to fail so that I have an item. So I don't want to put out there in the public. And I want to be clear, the council president does not have some type of power to call a special meeting without an item to be voted on.
 I've never done it, never seen it, don't know how it could happen. Corporation Council, can I simply just say today there'll be a special meeting with no item? Assistant Corporation Councilor Karen Gordon, there must be an agenda, and usually we would have an item on the agenda for that meeting. So I want the public to be clear that Darius Pridgen cannot call
 a special meeting. I can have a hearing, I can have all that, but this item would have been voted on today and it will, trust me, be on the way to the governor's office probably by the close of business today once we vote on it, not from us, but because that's the process. If I may, Mr. Chair, if I may.
 to, if we're going to cite Robert Drusarwater, it is very simple for us to rescind the motion on the prior document from the mayor. We can make a motion to have, you can make a meeting about that item. This item can then go to Albany. We can do both. There is a way to do it. We just have to choose to do it. We can do it. Well, that is a matter of time. She just told you there has to be an item.
 An agenda. There has to be an agenda. The vote is before us, and I'm going to call the roll. Call the roll again. Council Member Bowman?
 Councilmember Farrellotto? Before when I spoke, I stated that I would want to have a scheduled public hearing for tomorrow. I don't feel comfortable in waiving the normally requirement of 24 hours and give less time than what we normally would. I don't feel comfortable with doing that and having the public hearing at a different time, so
 Because we don't have anything scheduled for tomorrow after the 24 hour notice, I am voting yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? No. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Affirmative. Council Member Wyatt? No.
 So this document has been adopted by the Common Council. You've heard the role. Next item. Item 65, in vitro fertilization and fertility preservation treatments in City of Buffalo Health Insurance. Motion to adopt the results remainder to civil service. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 66, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Kengal.
 Item 67, failure of City of Buffalo Speed Violation Monitoring System Program and rescinding 19-490. Motion to send the legislation to items 67 and 68. Second by Council Member. Aye. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to invite the community out. You will be able to be heard on this item during the legislative committee. We put forth the resolution as well as the ordinance amendment.
 I know before we put this forward we had a few particular groups come out. I need the community come out in a big way on this item so that we can move
 move on with this program and really put in a safety program for our babies. We can put speed humps in, we can put in proper crosswalks, as well as digital monitors so that people know how fast they're going, but not have a punitive measure that is hurting people in the midst of a pandemic. So you will have an opportunity during the legislative committee next week to be heard on this item, and I hope that you'll come out and you'll show up. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir.
 Is that the last item? Yes, Mr. Chair. All right. Announcements from our clerk's office. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC.
 Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, April 6th at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, April 6th at 1 o'clock p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, April 6th at 2 o'clock p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Education, Tuesday, April 6th at 11 a.m. Council Members, any announcements? Council Members, any announcements?
 Thank you, Council President. I meant to mention this at the beginning of the meeting, but it slipped my mind. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of New York State Trooper Joe Gallagher, who passed away a couple days ago after injuries sustained three years ago when he was hit by a car after helping a motorist at the side of the road in Long Island.
 Mr. Gallagher was a graduate of Waterfront Academy. He was a classmate of mine at Bishop-Tymon, and he graduated from SUNY Maritime. He's gonna be terribly missed by his wife, son, daughter, parents, two brothers and sister, the New York State Police Department, as well as the community at large. So I just want to please keep his family in our prayers. Yes, sir, thank you for that. Anyone else? All right, it has been a robust meeting.
 Motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Joel Firoletto.