Council Member Farrell, that'll that's my we're fine. Tanner president I remember fronzex customer glow back here council president priggin key council member Rivera member scaling president that's my wing go My wife here for him present I
 Before we start, can Peter come down to lead the pledge to the flag on the record? He is from Troop No. 5, and he is here to, he's trying to earn his citizenship badge. So we'll bring him right in the front, right there, to lead our pledge. To the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God.
 and invisible, with liberty and justice and responsibility. Thank you, Peter. Our invocation will be led by Reverend Al Warren. Thank you so much. Exodus 4-2, Exodus 4 is an interesting scripture. Some of you are familiar with it from the Charlton Heston movie. It's about Moses. And God, in his discussion with Moses, asked Moses, who's been tempting sheep, what's that in your hand?
 And Moses responds in verse 2, My staff, the thing he was most familiar with, having worked those fields for so long. But God says maybe you don't know really what it is because it's become familiar. Throw it down and it changes and the miracles begin. But I sort of want to build on that for just a moment before I pray. What's that in your hand? A few weeks ago,
 There was a discussion here on the floor about a basketball tournament, bringing together first responders, the police, the fire, and children, young people from different council districts. Started, Mr. President, with you, and then virally moved to Mr. Wyatt. And then during session, it actually moved throughout the chambers enough to include Mr. Wingo and Mr. Fontana.
 And it turned out to be a tremendous success. Stop the madness. So sometimes I think we come to these sessions and there are boxes to check and things to send to committee and all the things that happen in every session every other Tuesday. But sometimes I think the Lord wants to say, what's in your hand? And spontaneously show up and make something birth in front of us. And I felt like we birthed something in the chambers that day.
 Don't get so bogged down with the details of all of those agendas in front of you that you lose the opportunity to have something in your hand that surprises you at the magnitude. I was impressed, Mr. President, by the response afterward as to how well it went.
 it had the possibility of not going so well. It went exceeding well, which tells me that God was in it in its birth, but He was also in it as it was being worked out and done. So I want to congratulate each of you, and I want to say be aware. Have your eyes alert to something at any time in any session that can surprise us with its creativity and its ability to transform the city for the good. Let's pray.
 Moses underrated the familiar. He'd been with it so long it wasn't even special to him. But you reminded him that what seems ordinary, that what we've worked with for a long time, can suddenly take on new and special supernatural characteristics. It did with him that day. And Father, I felt like it did here just a few weeks ago. We pray to stop the madness more than just a basketball game.
 term, more than just a basketball tournament, but for stopping the madness in the city of death. I pray, Father, creative solutions coming up from every one of the council members. I pray that the creativity of the Lord breathe on them as you did on Moses all those years ago. And let sessions here in the chambers be places where creative ideas are birthed and matured and nurtured for the betterment of the city. Now would you please?
 be with us today as we gather we thank you for your precious presence in your name amen amen thank you chaplain warner council members memorials council member golem thank you mr president it's a couple of him michael campbell uh former city of buffalo employee i think he worked in the sewer authority um he passed away on march the 3rd and he was very
 On South Buffalo. At St. Simon's Church, and he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. Also, Philip Alger passed away. Philip was only 27 years old. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his mother Carol, his father Ted, and his family and friends.
 Hearing none other, we also remember George Johnson, the husband of Florence Johnson, who passed away. His services would be Friday at the Calvary Baptist Church, 12 o'clock services at 10 o'clock to 12, family hour. George, although Florence was the elected one, George was the one who was always there with him.
 At everything. When I was on the Board of Education, we went to a convention, George went with her. And he paid his own way, for the record. But he was always there. He would come to school board meetings, which would be very long back then. I think they're still very long. And George would stay or come back and pick up Florence. I don't remember many times when Florence Johnson had to drive herself.
 And their son is one of our Buffalo police officers. And so we take a moment, of course, to remember all of these. And of course, our men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries all across this world since our last meeting. This council pauses for a moment of silence. Okay.
 Also, we want to dedicate this meeting to somebody's birthday, Mr. Day. Is that correct? Is there any? That is correct. Mr. Sutherland. Whose birthday is it? Today is the birthday of the illustrious Viola Diane Brooks. She is the office administrator for the Mastin District Office, and we are pleased to announce that she is turning 19 today.
 I need her to keep working for me so she's only 19 today. So happy birthday to Viola. And that child labor. And is it somebody else's? A majority leader, isn't it? Isn't the majority leader's too? Our majority leader's birthday? David Rivera?
 Yes. To his birthday? You want to announce that one, Jewel? Happy birthday to our majority leader. So to both of them. Is she in the chat? She's up. No, Viola took off with it. She is not working today. I do need her to continue to work there. I'm sure she is watching because she just can't get away from the council. That's right. And to have our majority leader here, happy birthday and to both of you. And Mr. Chair, and also one of our newest council members, Mr. Ferrellotto's birthday was last week. He escaped us. Let me make sure we're reading out this.
 It was last week he could say this. So how old is he, 20? I think he may be just turning 21. I think he may be just 21 now. Yes, Peter, this is the serious business of the common person.
 All right. On the motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on March 21, 2017 are approved. All of the late files are before you, correct? Everyone's had a chance to see those. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda as presented in front of us. It does not take away your right to object to the late file as they come before you. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 72 out of order.
 The motion is to take item 72 out of order. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Discharge finance item 17-504 from Committee on Finance. Motion is now to adopt. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Okay. Did we need, what was that? I'm a little lost.
 We had to adopt the discharge before we vote on the submission on this one. Got it. Now I'm fine. I think that's a song. Thank you, Majority Leader from the top. Item 1, appoint member to the Commission on Citizens' Rights. Motion is sent to ledge.
 Second by councilmember, columbia item to appoint members zoning board motion to receive and file saying my council members Fair love and three extend downtown lease arrangements buffalo bison motion to Approve items three and four setting by councilmember of transat item five public safety campus art in public spaces motion to receive and file items five item
 Through and including nine. Seconded by Council Member Berletta. Item 10, Historic Landmark, Application to High Street Historic District. Motion is sent to lights, Items 10 and 11. Seconded by Council Member White. And while we're there, and I know this is filed as a late file,
 um and we did send out a memo to all of the divisions that file into this system uh because what is happening last week we could the last councilman meeting we couldn't see the items because of the late files that were filed right before the meeting um we couldn't see them i know this one wasn't filed right before the meeting but i just want to remind everybody and we sent out the email sent it out to our council members council staff
 When these late files come, it slows the system down that has to regenerate. And it makes either our meetings start late or we can't see the items. So in the future, if there's an emergency, it has to be in by 10 o'clock a.m. So that we can generate this agenda and not have to continue to have our council meetings late. So you can expect, and I want to be clear so that we don't have any differences, especially with our commissioners and departments.
 objections to the late files coming up that are filed after 10 o'clock, unless they are of an emergency nature. Next item. Item 12, appoint junior data control clerk. Motion to send to civil service items 12 and 13. Second by Councilmember Golombek.
 in the cabinet of public works item 14 change order cw cdbg mill and overlay group motion to approve items 14 through 26. second by councilmember wingo item 27 position allocation maintenance
 Motion to send to civil service items 27 through 32. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. From the Department of Police, item 33, approved. Blue Courage LLC. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 34, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to send to police oversight. Seconded. Case over, Stephen Powell. Item 35.
 34 should be receiving file unless you want to discuss it in the service. 34, you're correct. 34 is receiving file. Second by the President, Pro Tem Stanlin. Item 35, informational LRAD 500X long-range acoustical device.
 Motion to send to police oversight. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. From the Department of Performance and Inspections, item 36, approval request between City of Buffalo and IDT plans. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fioletto. Item 37, food store license 3323 Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 38, food store license 937 Broadway. Motion to send to ledge.
 seconded by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item 39, Lodging House License 400, Forest. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fierlett. Item 40, Mobile Food Truck, Mobile Thrives. Motion to simplify items 40 through 43. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 44, Restaurant Dance, Class 3, Hotel Henry, 444, Forest. Motion to approve items 44 and 45. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 46, Used Car Dealer, 742, Genesee. Thank you.
 Motion to send to the ledge, items 46 through 49. Seconded by a council member, Franze. From the Department of Administration, Finance, Policy, and Urban Affairs, item 50, purchase of used furniture. Motion to approve items 50 through 52. Seconded by the President, Pro Tems, Scanlon. Item 53, liquor license applications. Motion to receive and file items 53 to 52.
 55. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 56, notice of appointment, council intern. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 57, certificate of appointment, seasonals. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Fiorilu. Item 58, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Fiorilu. Miscellaneous items, item 59, DEC delivers Pierce Aerosite. Motion to receive and file.
 Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 60, 20 Easton Avenue property. Motion to send to CD, economic development permits and inspection. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 61, Easton Avenue, B.C. infrastructure request. Motion to send to CD, DPW, economic development permits and inspection. Seconded by Councilmember White.
 Speaking by Council Member Fontana, I'll pause. Council Member White, please floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say something about this item because, you know, I... Which number? 61. Excuse me. Which number? 61.
 61. Okay. So it's related to both items. But I just want to say big ups to the Eastern Avenue Block Club, Ms. Elsie. You know, I put a lot of effort into the block clubs, letting them know they don't have to wait for the council member to do things. And she took the onus, took the bull by the horns, and she found this house that had been not addressed on her street. And she sent the letter to the Veterans Affairs Secretary.
 that they wanted to have it addressed. And I said, you know, that's what I'm talking about. You know, we have to let our residents know they have power. They don't actually need an elected official to stand with them. They can send letters, and they can address issues, and then we can double back and assist them in that. But I just wanted to acknowledge that, because when I saw that, I said, you know, that's what I'm talking about.
 We can take care of our community. You don't always have to wait for the elected official. You can do stuff on our own, and then we can assist you. But I just want to say again, Ms. Elsie, big ups for you taking the bull by the horns and trying to make your community better. Thank you. Absolutely. Good stuff. Thank you, sir. Next item. 162, concerns modern disposal services. Motion to send to Economic Development Permission Inspections.
 Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 63, ATU letter regarding NFTA. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item 64, Town of Chihuahua, Info, Local Law 1, 2, and 3. Motion to send to Corporation Council on Strategic Planning. Second by Councilmember Frenzik.
 Item 65, total betrayal by ATR and Northstar. Motion to send to CD item 65 and 66. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Petitions item 67, use 681 Fillmore to operate a liquor store in an N3C zone. Motion to send to legislation of City Planning Board item 67 through 71. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Committees. Civil Service item 1, position allocation maintenance form.
 Motion to approve items number one through including number five. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item six, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. All right. Second by Council Member Franzen. Finance Committee, item seven, Buffalo Civic Auto Reps, contract extension. Motion to approve seven, eight, nine, and ten, as well as eleven. Thank you.
 As well as 11? Yep. Seconded by Council Member White. Community Development Committee, Item 12, Report of Sale 382 and 386 grant.
 Motion is to approve Items 12, 13, and 14. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera. Item 15, 311 Complaint System Concerns. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader, Rivera. Legislation Committee, Item 16, Appointments Commission on Citizens' Rights and Community Relations. Motion to approve Items 16 and 17. Seconded by the President, Proxmox.
 Item 18, use 63 military to convert an auto repair. Motion to approve with conditions. Second. And Mr. Golombek, I'll read the conditions. All right. With your permission. You want to read the conditions? Second by Congressman Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President.
 This was the gentleman that came in here last week. He was looking to take a business on military and converting it into a music sound studio. And I just want to briefly explain what had happened. As my colleagues know that in the past when we have denied individuals or groups, whether it's a delicate test in or a bar license or something like that,
 Quite often we get challenged with an Article 78. An Article 78 ends up going to the state supreme court and in almost every single case, I can't remember many cases where an Article 78 was ruled in our favor. What I did was I met with the owner of this property, did a background check on him, you know, had a stellar background, looked at where he worked previously, I mean,
 there wasn't a single problem that I could find. I talked to Mr. Fontana and a couple of my colleagues that have dealt with him in the past and said, you know, they've always had a very, very good experience with him. And at the recommendation of the law department, we decided that what we were going to do was that we were going to put a one-year sunset clause on this license.
 so that next year the individual will have to come back in front of this council and we'll be able to take a look to see if it's been successful or not over time.
 The restrictions that are going to be placed on this are going to be that he can only apply for a beer and wine license, no hard liquor or anything like that. He's only going to be able to have live music on Sunday through Thursdays until 10pm at night, Friday and Saturdays until midnight.
 Also, he's unfortunately, he's in New York City for this past week, but we're going to set up a tour of the establishment. I was back there when it first happened, walked around, drove around. There's ample parking. The walls are very, very thick on the establishment. I don't think that there's going to be a sound problem in that neighborhood.
 But, you know, by doing it this way, we're able to work with the residents and with the owner of the property to put some restrictions on it because the experiences that I've had is that when we end up doing an Article 78, the owner doesn't have to
 to agree to any restrictions then with the city of Buffalo. And so it's much better for the council office to try to work something out between the residents and the property owner that is mutually beneficial rather than there being some sort of a, you know, cantankerous relationship between the different parties. And most of you were here at the last committee meeting, and some of the neighbors were very upset, and I understand why, because we had a bar that opened up in the middle of the block
 that we worked, all of us, myself, them, the Buffalo Police Department, and our state representatives to get it closed down. And it was a problem, but it was a bar that was open until 4 in the morning and it was being run in such a way that they didn't care about the neighbors. And that was the very, very serious problem that we had.
 Unfortunately, the bar had been a bar previously. It had been zoned to be a bar. And I don't believe there was anything that had to come in front of the City of Buffalo. They just went in front of the State Liquor Authority. But what we did with that location is because there were problems there, we've got a red flag on it with the State Liquor Authority if somebody tries to open up a bar there.
 I'm anticipating that next year at this time that we're going to look back on the year and see that Mr. Anderson did a very, very good job as an owner and that it's actually, I think it's going to actually enhance the neighborhood over there. It's going to complement the sportsman's over on Amherst Street and some of the other venues and restaurants that we have. So we are going to approve that with the restrictions and for a one-year sunset clause. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And you worked.
 I saw you work the room to make sure all of the residents and the church that also contacted me and you try to do everything to make sure that everybody is taken care of. Right. And when Mr. Anderson gets back, we're going to do a tour for anybody that wants to go over there. He's got a lot of equipment in the building and so he's not going to want to do anything that's going to cause problems to the equipment there. I believe that it's going to be a very, very good business over there.
 So thanks, guys. Thanks a lot. Well, but I think it was whoever suggested it, whether it was you or a colleague or Lauren, who talked about the year. I mean, I think that that really made a lot of sense, and we might be able to utilize that type of method in the future, different council members in their districts when we have these kind of tough situations where if we don't do it and if the court allows it, we then have no jurisdiction anymore.
 It's in the hands of the court. And I don't think residents at times understand that. They can always come back to us if there's a problem. They can't go to the state Supreme Court justice with the problem. And so it really leaves the neighborhoods out there sometimes.
 Thank you, Mr. Colombo. Next slide. Item 19, Refugee Resettlement City. 19, motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 20, use 1194 Lovejoy to operate a Byron Grill. 20, I'll refer to the District Councilmember for the purposes of . . . Councilmember Schrams, enter your floor. It's funny that you mention that we're going to use that one-year sunset in the future because we're going to use it now. Ah, all right. Just to make sure. I'm sorry.
 And there's some scuttlebutt around the neighborhood that the owner of the building actually is going to be the bar operator. And the owner of the building might not want to have a liquor license in his name for different things in the past. So he sent in a gentleman that really doesn't know anything about the restaurant business to the chambers last week, knew nothing about the business at all, but he said he was going to hire a manager that did it.
 So, I really have to give them the benefit of the doubt on that, I guess. If he's going to hire a manager, that's probably doable. But we're going to institute a one-year sunset on this bar. No live or recorded music within the facility. And essentially, they're going to run operations similar to WeChat's. And that location on Clinton Street causes no trouble whatsoever. It's a great asset to our neighborhood. Hopefully, this new bar, Checkbait, will be a similar bar and operate in accordance with all laws of the state and the city.
 and run a nice clean establishment and offer food and such. A place that I'd like to go with my family if we had the desire. But if it's a type of bar that I could not bring my family into, then that's a problem. A big problem. So that's why the one-year sunset and no live or recorded music would be good. And hopefully then they're being
 They did a nice job fixing the place up. They did a nice job listening to my recommendations on what signage should look like in our Lovejoy Village. But we'll see how they do as an operator. I'm not going to run their bar for them. If they don't want to run it right, I'll gladly pull the license in a year, unless the SLA does it sooner. But if they do run a nice establishment, then it's going to be great to have them, and hopefully they'll run a nice establishment.
 So thanks for everybody. So approve with the conditions that there's no live or recorded music and also that there's a one-year sunset clause for the renewal of license in one year. We got that from the clerk?
 Thank you everybody. Thank you. Next item item 21 use 1413 hurdle to operate a tabern item is 21 and 22 motion to approve second by councilmember Columbo item 23 use 3199 main to operate a tabern I deferred to the district council member for the purposes of a motion I
 thank you thank you mr chair um the motion is to approve this item and again i want to thank um the university collaborative the president mickey bertino who was very much involved with the owner of this establishment mr wag staff and commissioner um the deputy commission chief mens excuse me now put them in another position chief mensa for them working this out um the owner has the conditions of the uh business will be open monday through thursday from 10 to 10.
 And on Friday and Saturday from 10 to 12, I'm grateful to this community for supporting this. This is the old Molly's Pub. But we knew something had to go there. This gentleman stepped to the plate, and he seems to be wanting to run a very decent business with a breakfast and lunch menu. So I wish him luck. But, again, it's the community working together on something like this that really makes our community what we want it to be. So motion to approve. Thank you. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Okay.
 Excuse me, last comment, beer and wine only. Beer and wine only? Beer and wine only. They can play music, though. It's not the same respect. Right. We didn't talk about music, so no music at this point. No music at this point. All right, so have they already applied for the liquor license? I believe that's in process. Okay. Okay.
 All right. So the restriction, just repeat it one more time. The hours are from Monday through Thursday from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., and Friday and Saturday from 10 a.m. to 12 a.m. And beer and wine only. Thank you. All right. Second by Council Member Wyatt, the motion stands. Next item. Item 24, food store license 1065, Tonawanda. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member DeLong.
 item 25 used car dealer 1193 Jefferson motion to approve with condition that will be filed that are filed with clerk and the only difference I think on the conditions that are filed with clerk is that the amount of cars is whatever is allowed by the by the permit second by councilman Winkle item 26 local law amending 7 hiring requirements audit and control motion to approve
 Second by Council Member Columbus. Item 27, Community Liaison AABA of Western New York. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 28, use 112 Genesee to place a sidewalk cafe in ROW. I defer to the wishes of the District Council. It's going to be recommitted. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader.
 item 29 food store license 1021 east ferry motion to approve with conditions second by majority item 30 food store license renewals 2017. now this is motion to approve except for these items that we had asked council members to submit that would be subject to a hearing or not to be immediately approved here so if anybody has anything now is the time i i will submit these to the clerk
 And I'll read them for the record. Yes. In the Mastin District, Nashawn Mini Market, 169 East Ferry, is not approved in this roundup here. Mr. Variety Store, 2290 Fillmore. And I must say that Mr. Wingo has excellent penmanship. Universal Market, 1264 Genesee, omitted from today's approval. Family Dollar, 736 East Sullivan.
 Family Dollar, 1197 Genesee. Dollar General Store, 663 East Ferry. Dollar General Store, 212 Holden Street. And I'll submit this list. Dollar Tree, 2141 Fillmore. And also in the Fillmore District, 927 Broadway. Daily License Renewal held up.
 1129 East Ferry held up in the Fillmore District. And in the University District, Family Dollar 2565 Bailey, not approved today. Family Dollar 3364 Bailey Avenue. And the third is Family Dollar 1431 Kensington. And if there's any others, we need them to have them today.
 Right for the record those in that those stores will not be in this round of approval they will They will have a hearing that will be scheduled so those stores will remain open until
 until the hearing. Right. Council Member Wingo has the floor and then Councilor... Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate that. We do have a list of stores that we are not going to approve because we had offered in the Madison District two opportunities for the food stores to come and meet with the community to address certain issues, safety issues and also issues that happen in and around their store.
 to be able to communicate, put that platform out there so that they can actually hear from the community and the community can hear from the stores. Now, out of almost 40 delis that we have in Madison District, 33 of them came out. Out of those 33, they had some great dialogue with the residents of the Madison District. A lot of issues were expressed and a lot of promises were made.
 based on those promises, those stores, and with that act of good faith, actually attending those food store community meetings, they got approved. Now, this list that Councilman Franczak just read are the names of the stores
 who neglected to respond and or show to either of the opportunities that the Mass in district afforded to them. The first being on January 31st was the initial meeting. Well attended by food stores, they showed good faith, they were there.
 The next meeting had to be rescheduled because of that snow storm we had gotten. And that was rescheduled to March 27th. Now that food store meeting was well attended by both community residents and food stores. Now I've gotten this idea from Councilmember Wyatt.
 who, when I was working in his district before I became council member, had this available to his residents so that they can express to these delis what their issues and concerns were. What really upsets me, Mr. Chair, is that the fact we have no grocery stores, not one single grocery store in the Masson district. So I know that my residents depend on these corner stores who sell the deli.
 bread, milk, eggs, cheese. They sell these products. But some of these stores, they sell them expired. And then some stores, they don't take care of the refrigerators. They have broken equipment. So we know that our residents need these stores. The problem is the stores need to recognize that they wouldn't be in business if it wasn't for the residents. Therefore, not one dollar store will be approved.
 That's Dollar Tree, that's Dollar General, and Family Dollar. Not one of those stores in Madison District will be approved. Not only did they not come to the initial meeting, they failed to respond to any correspondence we sent them. They failed to address or respond to any phone calls, and they didn't come to the follow-up meeting that we had either. And on top of that, the stores are a mess.
 They're eyesores. They keep trash outside the stores, even if there's trash receptacles. There is no one dedicated to making sure that these stores are clean around the stores. They ignored every request that we had, even when we called and said, the residents of your area would like to have the African-American newspapers in your stores.
 They didn't oblige that either. It's just that they constantly have ignored. So now what we're going to do, Mr. President, is we're going to call these stores who were not approved to council chambers, and they're going to explain it to not just us nine council members or whoever chooses to be on this committee, but they're going to explain it to the entire city of Buffalo, of which we will be streaming live, and they will be asking their questions, and I will address those for them.
 That way they will not get around this and if they refuse to come then they will just never be approved at this point Mr. Chair. Because we believe that in the Mastin District moving forward, this is a part of the process. If you want to operate a food store in Mastin District, you have to go before the community and let them know what you are doing or are not doing to ensure that there's a great working relationship between both the residents
 and the store owners. And I just want to again applaud Councilmember Wyatt for ever even thinking of utilizing his pulpit in that way so that the community has a platform to speak to these deli owners. Otherwise there would never be any communication because the deli owners, they're in business and they'll continue to be in business because they don't have anyone holding them accountable.
 But at this point, Mr. Chair, we're holding them accountable, and they will be here. And if not, they can just close their doors and turn off the lights. And then the people in the district can go to the next corner store, because we do know that we have enough of them anyway. So at this point, they will not be approved. And I thank you for this time to share, Mr. Chair. Council Member Fontana. Thank you.
 The 1245 Bailey Avenue, Dave, if we could add that to the list as far as conditions. The condition at 1245 Bailey Avenue will be that they have security in the parking lot to abate the noise. People pull up there, similar to what you're dealing with over on Sycamore, and just play loud music all day long in the parking lot. And this has been going on for four years. The neighbors have been calling my office about it. So this month we had a meeting, last month we had a meeting with...
 Our chief of the C district, Ms. Lark, she attended. The contretorias attended, neighbors of mine, friends of mine. And the store owner attended. The store owner decided he was going to get cute during the meeting and just call me a terrorist and a gestapo. But I told him, I said, all the names you're going to say during the meeting are going to stop me from making you get security in this parking lot. I said, we've given you four years to fix it. You have not fixed it. So let's get it fixed.
 So to do that, we're going to opine today on the license that they have security Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from 6 to close every night to stop this annoying habit of their customers playing loud music in the parking lot. The store owner tells me they cannot hear it from within the store. So that means they cannot fix it from within the store. So they have to have somebody stationed in the parking lot to fix this problem so that the residents of Long Bailey Avenue can have some peace and quiet this summer.
 So that's the condition. So I would add that condition to 1245, Bailey, if they have security on Monday through... Thursday through Sunday from 6 to close. Thursday through Sunday to have security in the parking lot to police the loud music. Just one second. Just one second. Just one second.
 All right, just for clarification, the, what was that address again, Councilman? 1245. 1245. 1245 Bailey. As a condition. Will stay in the packet as approved, but conditions will be added to the store as stated by the council. Thank you, sir. And clerk's office, we got the conditions right. Yes, sir. All right. And that'll be written right on the license. It'll be right on the license. Thank you.
 I'm sorry, Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to commend Councilmember Wingo. I happened to see his food store license meeting on a public access and it was well attended. And I also noted that Family Dollar didn't attend yours as well as they didn't attend mine. And I have three.
 And Family Dollar is one of the ones that we've gotten a lot of complaints from. The outside is very nasty. Matter of fact, I think legislator Betty Jean Grant posted something on Facebook about the one at Delavan and Grider, how nasty that is. And it's a pattern. It just seems like the outside of these places they don't care about, and the inside is full of inventory and safety issues. And I think these meetings aren't a beat-up session.
 You know, any meeting that you come to, we're peacefully talking about the issues and working with them. We don't want them to leave. But certainly when we ask you to come and we give you ample opportunity and you don't attend and you don't send a letter or representative, that's a little bit disrespectful. And it's not just disrespectful to the elected official, but it's disrespectful to the community because this is a fair process.
 I think it's more fair than what happened in the past because before they got an approval, the owner got an approval and the community just had to deal with their issues. Whatever the issues were, who cared because they got their license. But this makes it a more transparent process and I think it's fair to all. So we've already said that we're denying or asking for a hearing for a family dialer so that they can come to this community. I think that's more than reasonable to ask.
 that if there's issues that you hear from us. Because it certainly doesn't seem that the issues that residents make to the managers are heard because it's still the same way. So, you know, I'm thankful for this process, and I'm thankful to the council for the support of this process because I think we all want the best for our community, and these deli stores are a vibrant part of the community. And as such, we want you to be a part of the conversation. So if you don't show, we have to take the appropriate action. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Absolutely. Thank you, sirs.
 Next item. Resolutions. Item 73, opposed use of Smith Street parcel for snow dumping and vehicle storage. Motion to adopt. Send it to Economic Development Permits and Inspection and CD.
 Seconded by Council Member Franczak, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recently attended a meeting of the Valley Block Club Association, where representatives of the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority and the Erie County Department of Environment and Planning
 where the NFTA announced a proposal to take snow that they gather in the winter months from the Metro Line Rail at Canal Side. And the NFTA owns a parcel of land, you know, on Smith Street near the Buffalo River adjacent to Red Jacket Park. And they want to dump snow from 5 at night or 9 at night till 5 a.m. in the morning overnight.
 And then they also want to have the opportunity to store vehicles there. And I was not supportive of this plan, nor was anyone that attended this block club meeting, particularly with the proximity of residential homes in that area with the noise at night and beeping trucks backing up.
 The potential for contaminants in the soil, in the snow that's removed, whether it's batteries or debris and tires and things of that nature dumped on this lot of land across from the city park. And also, it's very close to the Buffalo River, and the county is developing a park right along the Buffalo River just south.
 a few hundred feet away and that was brought up by the office of environment and planning so you know i would ask that we um you know uh adopt the results and sent the remainder to the references that the majority leader had mentioned so we could further discuss this but to make sure the nft knows that this body would not be in favor of a project of this nature the whole waterfront now is turning from industrial and storage to
 recreational use, residential use. In the Old Force Ward, there are homes being built. You have parks along Ohio Street. There's the county park proposed for the Buffalo River adjacent near where this plan is being suggested. And this is not the kind of activity that we need to be returning to our waterfront or our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 So that one was sending the remainder? Motion is now to adopt the resolved remainder to see the economic development permits and inspection. All right. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 74, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Items 74 and 75. Okay. Motion. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Council Member Fontana has the...
 On 75, this is more of a state issue, but we're taking an opinion here on the council floor. And it's just important to know that New York is one of the only states in the nation that has it so low at 16. I just have a concern, though, for the parents out there to really watch. If this does go through, watch your 16- and 17-year-olds like a hawk, because they will be under attack from gangs to commit crimes. With this happening, currently what I've noticed over my 20 years in this seat is
 I've seen a lot of 15-year-olds and 14-year-olds doing a lot of stupid things because people of 18-year-old and older make them do it. I had a kid break it into Frank Scalese's store one time.
 15 years old, stealing all the cigarettes out of the store. I asked him, why did you do it? My older brother made me do it. Why did he make you do it? This was before I was a little street smart. And he says, well, I'm 15. I'm only going to get a slap on the wrist if he did it. He's 20, whatever. He's going to be in jail for a long time. So it does create a situation where we're moving the age if it does happen, and your 17- and 16-year-olds will be now treated by the gangs as a 15-year-old.
 So parents, this is a double-edged sword. It could help your young person if they commit a stupid crime early in life. Hopefully they don't hurt anybody. But it also could mean that they are now more of a target to commit a crime at that age. So it's just going to be – this one's a little tougher to vote for than normal just because I feel like –
 if not washed properly, those kids of that age could become a problem. And I've seen it. I've seen it with 15-year-olds. I've seen it with 14-year-olds. Now if this goes through, we might see it with older people as old as 17 and 16. I'd like to know how the other states are handling that. But with us being one of the only two states in the whole nation that is at 16, I think then it's time to look at that issue. And that's why I could vote for the adoption. But as a parent, I'm not going to vote for the adoption.
 the police out there to watch those 16 and 17 year olds so they don't get in trouble in the first place. And I agree it can be a type of double-edged sword that these parents need to be watching their 16 and 17 year olds anyway. Yeah. Regardless, because this, I was on the juvenile justice, matter of fact I represented the state of New York on juvenile justice for the country.
 And one of the things that the research shows us is that when 15, 16-year-olds are introduced into the adult justice system,
 they are more likely to commit adult crimes later. Then if we can get to them when they are younger, get them the help that is needed, because sometimes a lot of this has to do with family problems, situations in which they need a social worker and not a correction officer. And when they are placed with adults,
 it definitely is a new education for them. And so that's why I do support raising the age. I think I remember when I got up, when I was on the school board, the age of compulsory education where a child had to go to school was low.
 but being considered a criminal was at the same level. So you had to go to school until you were at least 17, but if you did something at 16, you're considered a criminal. So there is this level that takes you from 10th grade to jails. And I think that when you're 15, 16 years old, again, you need a social worker, not a correction officer. So I do understand, and you're right. I was with Channel 7 this week.
 And Irv Weinstein, it was kind of dedicated to Irv Weinstein. I think I mentioned this on the floor recently, Irv Weinstein. Some of the younger council members never heard of Irv Weinstein. And when 11 o'clock came and they would say, it's 11 o'clock.
 Do you know where your children are? So I think we do have to look out for our children. Thank you, Councilman Fontana. Councilman Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Listen, we definitely have to address this issue because it is a serious issue to the detriment of a lot of our youth, especially our minorities. I just want to read a couple of the statistics that you have listed here on the resolution just for the public so that they know exactly what we're voting on today.
 It says 28,000 16- and 17-year-olds are arrested and face the possibility of prosecution as adults in criminal court each year. And the vast majority are for minor crimes. Seventy-two percent are misdemeanors. This is incredible. And it brings me to the story of a young man by the name of Kalief Broder.
 Now, Khalif Broder, that story has gone national because he committed suicide on June 6, 2015 at the very young age of 22. Because at the age of 16, he was arrested for allegedly stealing a backpack. A book bag. He was arrested for stealing a book bag. He was not innocent until proven guilty. He was guilty because he didn't have the money, the $10,000 to get out of jail.
 So he spent three years locked up in Rikers Island. Now, two of those years in Rikers Island, he was in solitary confinement. While he was there, he was physically and mentally abused. So much so that he experienced so much trauma that years after he had gotten out of prison, he still couldn't find relief, only other than to kill himself. Which to me is horrific. Horrific.
 So we definitely need to do something as it relates to the mental health that these young people are inflicted with being put into prison. And my mother used to tell me when I was growing up, when you get locked up, you could get locked up for stealing a candy bar. But while you're in prison, it seems like people learn other crimes.
 And then the recidivism is exponentially increased because you go to jail for a crime, but then there are no remedial efforts while you're there to keep you from committing crimes. So when you get out, the only skill you have is to do more crimes. That makes no sense.
 The system doesn't work and we need to fix it. And I think this is a great first step at ensuring that our young people have a better chance for the rest of their life and not... and then another thing in here too that talks about how the brain is not even fully completely developed until the age of 25. That is incredible to me as well. So the fact that we're going to charge a 16 year old as an adult when they're not even capable of being, uh, making the decision to drink
 or smoke is beyond me. So thank you, Mr. President, for bringing this to the council floor and the resolution. Of course, I appreciate you putting me on as a co-sponsor, Council Member Wyatt, and I think this is something we need to address sooner than later. Thank you for your leadership. Thank you, sir. And there are some crimes...
 that they would still be charged as an adult. I think we have to be very clear about that, that this isn't every crime. One of the news reporters asked me that today. It's not every crime. There are some heinous crimes.
 that they would still be charged as an adult. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm definitely in support of this. I think that our young people have for too long been criminalized once they go to jail, and then we wonder why we have this vicious circle of recidivism with people going back and forth in jail. But I'm hopeful that we can attach something else to this because I look at this –
 Two ways, and one is that we spend hundreds of millions of dollars to incarcerate someone, but as far as keeping them out, there's only millions of dollars. And I think we have to do a better job of giving young people other alternatives as far as training and those type things, which, you know, we've been pushing for for a long time. But when you took vocational training out of the high schools, right,
 I think that was part of the pipeline to get young people to jail because some of them may not be academically sound. I know I wasn't. I went to Seneca. I graduated with an electronics degree. So if I wanted to be an electrician, I could even though I may not have gone to college.
 But we have to spend more money on the front end of addressing our young people and giving them other opportunities. You know, when we can spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a prison system, the prison pipeline system, but we refuse to give some of these organizations, and I think I mentioned on the floor a couple of weeks ago, our committee,
 that we refuse to give agencies that are doing positive things with young people, that have outcomes. I'm not just giving money just to give money, but that have outcomes that they can show that when young people go through our program, these are the outcomes they're making. We should be able to give them more money. We should be able to have them do more in impacting our young people so that we don't have to worry about them
 them getting into these gangs because we know that when this thing is passed, these gangs are going to find out and they're going to try to recruit these young people. Just like Councilmember Fontana said, they're going to try to recruit them to do the dirty work. So parents beware. Find something for young people to do. There's a lot of things that are out there, but we have to find them, but we have to have them funded as well. So I hope the state will do something. I know right now they're wrangling with the budget.
 But we have to do more with giving resources to agencies that have significant outcomes for our young people so that they don't have to go to prison, so that we don't have that prison pipeline issue. We have to do more on the front end and not the back end. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item 76, home rule request for Bill A4711A, Michigan Avenue Archway. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. Second by Council Member Golombet. And just so... What was stated? Approval. Oh, I'm sorry. That's approved. Item 76 and 77. Oh, you said adopt. Right. So the motion, it was just an error, is actually to adopt. No, it's to approve, sir.
 What did you say? I have it marked here for approval. Is it an adopt item? No, it's an approve item. It's an approve item. Motion to approve item 76 and 77. All right. If anything else was said before that, we switch it from the record. So we're on the same page? If this gets the money flowing for the archways on Broadway and Michigan so that we can get this done, our goal is to try to get this done by
 Hopefully, Juneteenth, so that as people are coming into our city, they'll be able to actually see these or at least the basis of them up. So, thank you. Next slide. 178, granting retroactive membership to New York State Retirement System. Motion is sent to ledge. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 79, urge Congress to restore funding to Great Lakes. Motion to adopt.
 Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item A diversity. Council Member Citelli, I'm sorry. It won't log in here. Council Member, I'm all confused. Let me get myself together. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Thank you. Thank you, Council President. As we all know in the past few years, there's been a great deal of growth throughout the City of Buffalo and there's been a number of factors which have contributed to that.
 Some of those factors are the federal programs that assist us with things like that, such as our community development block grant, Tiger, Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, things like that, which have infused this city with millions of dollars and as a result served as a catalyst for hundreds of millions of dollars in private investment in the city. Now because of some of the actions of our president and his administration in Washington, we're in jeopardy of losing out on millions of those dollars.
 which have helped this city regain its footing, and along with that private investment that I talked about, have propelled the city of Buffalo back into the national spotlight as one of the best cities to relocate to in the nation and one of the best cities to raise a family in the nation. And that's not just my opinion, but that's an opinion you read in both national and international publications constantly. If you take, for example, the Car Sharing Main Street Initiative,
 You're looking at $33 million in transportation investment generating economic recovery dollars, or TIGER funds that are being used in that project. Now if you take an area scope area from Tupper down to the water and a block east and west of Main Street, that has resulted in $500 million in private investment.
 So that's $33 million, which has spurred a half a billion dollars in private investment in the city of Buffalo. And I'm not certain, but I would be willing to bet that that's unprecedented.
 If you look at our waterways, we all know how important our waterways are. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, they've put millions of dollars into sediment dredging, navigational dredging, things like that, as well as habitat restoration in the Buffalo River, which at one point, I believe, was considered ecologically dead.
 And now you'd be hard-pressed to find a day in two-thirds of the year where that river isn't loaded with people kayaking, boating, doing all things using our water, using our greatest natural resource here in the city of Buffalo. Now also another program is the Community Development Block Grant.
 Now the City of Buffalo receives $12 million in block grant funding every year. And every one of us here at this grassroots municipal level know how important those dollars are to our community. We're talking about things that assist low and moderate income neighborhoods with infrastructure improvements, housing rehabilitation, and youth and senior services. We all know how important all that is.
 We need to thank our local delegation because it seems like they seem to be fighting some of these proposed cuts. And we also need to take the time as a local municipality to let the rest of the leadership within the Congress know that these dollars are important to us. They don't fix everything, but like I said, they spur other activity, so they're impaired that we continue to receive these dollars. So I wanted to thank the other council members for their support on that. Thank you.
 I ask to also join you with this. This is important. We talked about it in Council Member Franczak, Council Member Wyatt. I was asking Council Member Rivera, Council Member Ferletto, Council Member Fontana, Council Member Golombet, have all asked to join on this and are joining on now this resolution. It is important. Main Street would not be what it is. I've lived through both of the benefits.
 The waterways, they worked literally 24 hours a day. And I know because I'd be up at night, I'd say, cleaned out near the house. But I also was a boater. And a few years ago, I had a boat, and before they started cleaning it out, it was so difficult.
 navigating through the waterways. A lot of people don't understand that, so, you know, the maps change every year. You gotta go buy a new map. And getting that boat through was horrible. And then,
 Even if you caught something, you didn't know if you really wanted to eat it, so you're really out there for sports. I got rid of the boat because by that time I was paying $300 to fill it up, and then you're afraid to hit something, and you can't fish. So this is important for our area. So great resolution right on time, and hopefully our folks from the federal government really understand how important it is. Thank you. Was there someone else? I'm sorry.
 Councilmember Franczak, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. The, this is, it's just remarkable that Mr. Scanlon had to do a resolution like this. Yep. Particularly since the strides that you had mentioned and he had mentioned in the resolution had happened over all these decades. And just that, you know, just asking for some personal privilege, I remember how dirty those waterways were. I remember playing along the Buffalo River that had a rainbow color.
 that fish had lesions on them, that the birds along the river, pigeons, and so we call them seagulls too, I don't know what they really were, but they had boils growing out of their bodies, the fish were lesions, the water was filthy that was dumping along the river.
 in the river. I remember hypodermic needles once were dumped near the river, and this was a routine thing. I also remember that one of the neighborhood heroes in Kaisertown was the guy that ran the jewelry store at the corner of Weimar and Clinton Street, where I was a patrol boy, and that was Mr. Stanley Spiciak.
 because he was like the first environmentalist about cleaning up the Great Lakes in Buffalo, and he invited President Lyndon Johnson to come in
 And I remember we were watching by the thruway to see Johnson's car go by, and then he went actually in a boat with Stanley, and they went out into Lake Erie. And he said, we need to ban phosphates. We need to clean up the lakes. We need to – we used to have eagles flying along, but their eggs had become fragile because of pesticides. We need to take this seriously. And Johnson did – President Johnson did take him seriously. And so he was regarded as a hero in the neighborhood.
 And so I remember seeing him, why this guy is a businessman, small businessman in the community, yet he got, he was very important in the environmental movement here in the city of Buffalo and to the Great Lakes in general. So, you know, do we need to have...
 You know, people like that again, environmental warriors and warriors for social justice and warriors for the least advantaged of us with the whole panoply of incomprehensible cuts.
 You're taking heap away and meals on wheels. What are you, shooting fish in the barrel? I mean, that's what you're doing? So multi-billionaires with a B can be given huge tax breaks? You know, what kind of – didn't the Republicans used to talk about compassionate conservatism? This certainly isn't.
 And to look at our lakes to the point where the progress we've made, $300 million came from the Great Lakes Initiative. That's cut down to $10 million in this insane budget. So I think, you know, we're a Great Lakes city, and so this resolution is entirely appropriate that, you know, and we're saying, even though we're speaking softly, we're saying from the rooftops, this shall not pass.
 I mean, a resolution will, but these programs won't. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Craig. Thank you, Council Member. All right. Motion stands. We just have to revisit an item. You got it already? Yes. Can we revisit item number 30 in ledge? Okay, that wasn't the one.
 There's another one we're going to revisit as well? Yep, 76. Right. All right, motion is to revisit item number 30, second by Council Member Franczak. Who has the floor? Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Fontana's remarks on these delis triggered another – the conditions he imposed on a deli or put on a deli correctly on Bailey. I would like to do the same with a deli, another deli in Fillmore, if I might, for the record. Okay.
 And what I would like to say for the same reason that he had with his belly there was it's Sam's Express Mart. Sam's, like Uncle Sam, but it's just Sam. Sam's Express Mart at 880 Fillmore Avenue, a.k.a. 855 Sycamore Street. And what I want the same conditions that Mr. Fontana put on is that there be, in the hours of operation, there be security.
 to police the loud music that is allowed to be played on that property. As he said, they pull in and they're constantly blasting loud music. They do so at Sam's Express Market at 880 Fillmore, a.k.a. 855 Sycamore, that they need security on that premises in all hours of operation to, among other things, police.
 Stop the loud music that occurs there. Mr. Franchette, just to clarify, so if you say security, they can say anybody's security, but is it some... They have to hire the security to do it. They have to have security on premises to stop the loud music. All right. Not just to watch if somebody doesn't steal a package of chiclets or something from them, which is fine, but they need to police their property.
 So I thought, I just checked with Corporation Counsel and my fear is correct. If you leave it just blank security, they could say anybody who they hire is security. The person behind the counter is the security. So she, well, would Mr. Fontana, would it maybe stationed on the exterior of the building with the security? Right. Is that the same thing you're requesting? I will repeat what Mr. Fontana said, that the security on the outside of the building is,
 Right. To keep peace and repose and know the music on the outside. There's also security outside. So you are putting the condition on 880 Fillmore. 880 Fillmore Avenue, Sam's Express, Mark. For security to be outside of the establishment. Outside the building. They could have it inside, too, but, you know, that's up to them. Right. For all of the operational hours.
 Because that's a repository of constant loud music. They don't stop their customers from violating our noise ordinances. They allow the violation of our ordinances on their property. Just like if you allow people in your yard to start screaming at the top of their lungs, and you let them do it all day long. Somehow you pretend that you're not culpable. Or you're not responsible, let's put it that way. So that's what I... Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Just wanted to clarify so we are clear.
 Next item. Motion to revisit item number 76. Second by the President Pro Temp. That needs to... As per the clerk's office, that is an adopt. So we have to... So we're going to... Motion is now to rescind the approval. Second by Council Member Golombet. Motion is now to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Thank you, sir. Thank you. One second. One second.
 All right.
 So just for clarity, Council Members, the conversation was 76 and making sure that it didn't have to pause at the Mayor's office for these archways because Assemblywoman Peebles needs this in order to get the funds moving from Michigan. So just wanted to let you know about the conversation. So we're fine. It isn't a doubt? Yeah, because we don't actually have the...
 authority to approve what we've been saying so it'll go straight to be sent right out today to the assembly room the motion stand all right curious yeah councilman thank you mr president um just a question without the approval the adopts don't go to the mayor for his signature right so we're actually able to send a home room message to the state without the mayor opining from the council or
 Yes, because what we really need is a sponsor in the assembly to get it done since the common council and the mayor, neither one of them has to be have the authority to get this done. But if it's done through the assembly member, then we can get authority to actually have
 That's why we don't really need the mayor's signature. You don't need the mayor's signature? We don't need the mayor's signature. We just need to get two-thirds of the council to agree on it. If two-thirds of the council agrees on it, that's good enough. And I'm assuming that we do have that. What about future home rule messages? If this council wants to do a home rule message on a certain topic and the mayor is adamantly opposed to it, could we do the same?
 I mean, can we adopt that one, send it off to the state? We might be saying one thing, but the mayor might be saying something else. With the approval, it gives him the chance to veto. If he does veto it, I guess, I don't know, if he does veto it, then we could override the veto if we're all unanimous anyway. So that's just the question I had is can we send out two different messages, like the administration sending one and the council sending another, without the approval? Okay. Hello. Great. Okay.
 Thank you very much. And the mayor has the same ability to send a home rule message without the council's approval because we're a separate branch of government. And that's something I would never, ever want to lose because...
 The mayor still has the ability to even contact the assemblywoman and say, I'm not for what the council is for, and then it's up to them. Well, based on that, I was just basing it basically on whenever something, and David, I was talking about the city as a whole, that's the council and the administration.
 on that type of check and balance system where we approve those to the mayor for signature if he vetoes and we can override, then it goes off. Right. I thought it was that type of system, but I, you know, we don't do these enough to have it in the back of the mind as to if it's just, it's bifurcated. We could do it and he could do it. That's unusual. Normally...
 Karen again for the Corp Council. It's possible on the forms, like if you actually see the home rule form, it gives an opportunity for either the mayor to do it or for the Common Council to do it. And this is what the Common Council is doing. Terrific. Thank you. And if he didn't approve the archways on Michigan, I'd be standing in front of his door. Okay.
 Thank you. All right. Next item. Item A, diversity and C, honors and Olmstead. Motion sent to the education committee. Second by Councilmember Wingo and I think I've got Councilmember Fontana already taken to Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. We submitted this resolution because we are definitely in support of the proposed changes for both City Honors and Olmsteads in the way they admit their students. Just a few quick facts. Currently right now, City Honors' racial breakdown is as such. 59% are white, 24% are other minorities, and only 17% are African American.
 Now the district racial breakdown is 20% white, 32% other, and 48% black African American. Now the principal of City Honors has stated placement at the school has been dictated by an admissions process set up by the school board and the education department's office of civil rights more than over a decade ago.
 And this only happened because the federal government stepped in to provide a more equitable system. More recently, the school board and our superintendent, Dr. Cash, are trying to rectify this racial disparity within these schools. Number one, the district requiring that students be residents of Buffalo before taking the admissions test. Number two, it no longer takes into account teacher recommendations.
 Three, school boards suspending the use of scores from state assessment tests as part of the admission process. And four, the lottery system implemented to specifically award 26 out of the 154 current openings for Buffalo Public Schools students when they are not enough available seats. Now this is just an example based on just numbers of 100 openings. So let's say for instance we had 100 openings available in a grade. The first 80 seats
 The first 80 seats are awarded based solely on scoring. That means whether you're in the school district or not. If you get the first top scorers, the first 80 students with the highest scores, they get the first 80 spots. Now, number two, those 20 seats that remain open, this is what kills me.
 The next 20 seats are open to 25 people, who are equally qualified with the third highest score of all the test takers. So you have 25 students in the second tier of highest scores, 20 of them fighting for 25 seats. Now, out of those 25 applicants in this pool, only 15 have to be Buffalo Public Schools students.
 and 10 are eligible to those non-BPS students. So the 15 students will be provided with a preference and offered an open seat right out. But those last five students will be given to anyone on a lottery. So 10 students are on a lottery for those last five seats.
 Now that's what makes up the makeup for City Honors right now. An admission will be based out of 20 points of a cognitive test, GPA and attendance, and this will create a deadlock of students with equal scores, which is where the lottery will be vital. So currently City Honors this year had 154 openings. 105 were awarded to currently enrolled BPS students.
 and 49 were awarded to students in charter or non-public or home schools. In the past, majority of students were enrolled from non-BPS schools. Now, right now, Dr. Cash can't necessarily ensure the demographics of these schools will mirror the population of our district, but he did state that he would be aggressive in ensuring a more equal racial makeup.
 He also states he will have conversations with parents and the school board to consider, here it is, reserving a certain number of seats for high achieving minority students. Now a lot of people are against that.
 But this will also include an interview and a portfolio process. But doing this will likely face a strong legal challenge, which he already understands. But they are still vetting this process. And I believe that there needs to be a change in the way we admit students to these schools because they do not reflect the diversity of the city, number one, and they do not reflect the diversity of the district. So this is something we will be discussing at the education meeting, the next education meeting coming up here in the council chambers.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Do you already have the date for that? I'm sorry? Do you have the date for that? The date for the meeting? When is it, Tysha? April 6th at 530. So it will be a PM meeting so everyone can come and speak on that issue. So, again, April 6th at 530 will be this week. Thank you. 13th? What is it, 13th? April 13th at 530. Wait a minute. Tysha, is it the 6th or the 13th?
 Okay. Okay, it's April 6th, this Thursday at 530. Thank you, Tysha. Alright, so I just want to be clear because what we have here then, is that the public notice that's going on? Hold on. I can't switch it. Yeah, we're going to check the public notice. Okay, Mr. President, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but we did change it. My legislative assistant just informed me that we've changed it because of the Easter break. Okay. So it will be on the 13th. The announcement is correct. Sixth. Wait a minute. Oh, we moved it up a week.
 We moved it up a week because of the break. So it'll be this week. Okay. So whatever the announcement says, it'll be this week Thursday. So I just want to be clear because it's not on the public notice. They're saying they haven't been informed, the clerk's office. Pardon me? Let me ask because I got too many things going on. On the public notice, it says that went out, that is out to the public, it has what date, Jerry? It's got the 13th. We're being informed.
 So we haven't informed the public that it's changed? Well, I'm informing the public now it's changed. Okay. You can do whatever. April 6th. I just want you to understand that it has gone out to the public on our official way we send it out with a different date. Okay. So we'll work diligently to make sure that everyone knows that it is actually April 6th.
 At 5, at 5.30 p.m. All right, and in the future, we have to notify the clerk's office because of the transparency issue and what we're working through, and so that it goes out as in public notice on the public notice form. Right, I'm pretty sure that was an oversight because, I mean, Taisha's very, very good at making sure that everyone is. Yeah, and this isn't about a person. I just want to make sure our processes are in place to make sure there's more to –
 the head of that department so we don't have this problem. All right, so the date is going to be April the 6th, 530. All right.
 Councilmember Stanley or President Plitzker. Thank you, Council President. I'd like to be recorded the negative on this. I represent a district which thankfully has a number of incredible Buffalo public schools really that we do. However, I also represent an area which is predominantly Catholic. And many, many of the parents in my district choose to send their kids to Catholic schools early on. And it's not an easy decision to arrive at.
 It's not cheap to send your children to the Catholic schools. There are sacrifices that have to be made by many, many of these families in order to do so. And they do it for a number of different reasons.
 Some people want their kids, their education and their religious foundation to be merged under the same roof to begin with. Some people want them going to school where they're going to perform their sacraments of reconciliation and communion. And quite frankly, some just don't trust the education that might be offered to their kids at a very critical time in their development.
 Whatever the reason is, they feel very passionately about it, and they feel whatever they're doing is what's best for their children at that time. Now, as they progress through and up to middle school,
 There's the possibility that although they have by every right as a resident of the city of Buffalo, someone who pays taxes, their children might not have the opportunity to attend one of these schools because of where they attended school and discriminated against based on their Catholic school. Now I'm coming at this based on a Catholic school.
 angle. That's a major focus in my district and it's one of the major concerns some people in my district have. But obviously the same concerns go for charter school students and other students throughout the city of Buffalo. And quite frankly, there's been a lot of talk about home school students lately. I don't know where they fall into the equation either. People want to place an emphasis on home school students and I don't know where they've fallen
 So it's clear to me that tweaking the admission process at some of these schools, these high-performance schools, is the way the Buffalo School Board is attempting to cut out a segment of the population of students within the city of Buffalo. And I don't think it's right. I read an article a couple weeks back where one of the members of the Buffalo Public School Administration was quoted as saying,
 it wasn't a priority of the Buffalo Public Schools to create an enclave for private school parents who only feel comfortable with one public school. To that, I would respond...
 bring all the rest of your schools up to par we won't have that problem if the rest of your schools are better others parents students aren't going to be jamming in trying to get into one school or two schools they'd be more comfortable with spreading out throughout the district it's not their fault that maybe some of the schools aren't up to par so um i again i just like to be voted in the negative on this all right so noted councilmember columbia
 Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to be in the negative as well. I understand that there's dilemmas that we face in public education, but as Mr. Scanlon said, you know, it's the public of Buffalo that pays for these schools. And it seems like, you know, we're taking one injustice and doing another injustice to try to make up for a previous injustice.
 And when I look at a school like City Honors, that's one of the best schools, not just in the region, but in the entire country. There's something that's being done right there. And I just feel very, very uncomfortable saying that we should change the way a successful school in the city of Buffalo is operating. And I would much rather see other schools in the city of Buffalo operate the way that City Honors does.
 I was a former Buffalo Public School teacher. I taught at Riverside High School. It was a wonderful job. I loved it. And it was one of the toughest jobs that I ever had at the same time. It was, you know, the quality of the students was outstanding.
 however educationally these kids are had had issues that we had to work with I was teaching 10th grade and a lot of the kids that I was teaching in regardless of what background they were what racial group they were on they had issues that we had to deal with that we had to work with and these are kids that if they would have gone to City Honors they would have been lost they would have had a very very difficult time there on but we were able to work with them at Riverside High School and keep
 at that time more than half of them would ultimately go on to graduate. And I wish I had an answer. I have a friend, one of your constituents, Dr. Charles, who I've sat down with and talked about what do we do, you know, with children in the
 public schools in general. How do you motivate children? How do you get them to become better students? How do you get them to be inquisitive? And I always tell them that, you know, it's a million dollar question and if I had an answer for that, I would be making millions a week going around to every public school in the United States of America.
 But I just don't think that there are complete answers right now. But I'm just uncomfortable with something like this, with monkeying around with one of the most successful schools in the country, where I would rather see other schools in Buffalo emulating the City Honors and the Olmstead.
 way of doing things. Also I have a lot of residents that send their children to charter schools. I have residents that have their kids home that are homeschooled and I just feel very very uncomfortable with it so that's why I'm in the negative. Thank you. Mr. Wingo. Thank you Mr. Chair. Listen, I'll take exception to the idea that affluent parents of children who send their children to Catholic school
 should have a right just based off of the fact that they're Catholic or the fact that they have always had their children go to a school that was more successful, that they should have exclusive rights to City Honors High School, City Honors School, when it is a public school. And then the notion that we are trying to disrupt the great model that we have working at City Honors is ridiculous.
 No one's trying to disrupt that. If these parents who have these very high performing students would send their students to another school in the city of Buffalo or Buffalo public schools, maybe they could help to raise up those averages in those schools.
 Maybe the teachers who are teaching at city honors schools should be sent to lower performing schools and let some of these teachers who actually have the higher job of working at Burgard, who have the higher job of working at a Riverside, let them have a chance at working at a city honors or an own state. When no one's trying to take away one of the highest performing schools in the country, that's ridiculous.
 But at the end of the day, we have a lot of students who are equally capable, who live in Buffalo, whose parents do not make six figs a year, whose parents have stayed in the city when it was its heyday and when we had our decline. Now we're going back up again. They stayed here. They've held it down. But they don't have access.
 to City Honors and Olmstead. That's preposterous, and I think that's ridiculous. Therefore, I take exception, personal exception as a matter of fact, with anyone who suggests that we don't need to fix the model by which we admit any student into City Honors and Olmstead, especially when it doesn't reflect the demographic and the diversity of the City of Buffalo and the school district in this city.
 So, if these parents of these affluent parents of these students want to come to Buffalo to send their kids to school because they don't want to pay tuition but they still want a high performing school, send them to a charter school or start your own school.
 in our best performing public school for your high affluent family who do not live in Buffalo. That to me is not fair. That to me needs to change and I applaud the effort of the school district to ensure that we're including more of our students who live in Buffalo, who were raised in Buffalo, who still live in Buffalo, who will probably be like me, Buffalo residents for the rest of
 Give them an opportunity at this world-class, first-class education that we're trying to emulate through all of our schools. Give somebody else a chance. They have it. Give somebody else a chance.
 They want. They want. Council Member Scanlon. Yeah. First of all, I don't think myself nor Council Member Wormbeck stated any preferential treatment should be given to anyone, and no one ever mentioned anyone residing outside the city of Buffalo. I'm talking about people that live in the city of Buffalo, pay taxes in the city of Buffalo, and by right, should have an opportunity to go to that school just as much as anyone else. And if we're taking offense to things...
 I take great offense to the fact of all these parents being called affluent. I grew up in a family of seven children. My parents were not affluent, but they worked, my father worked many, many jobs.
 And they sacrificed and sent the seven of my kids in my family, me, my five brothers, and my sister, to these Catholic schools because they thought it was best for the six, seven of us. All right? So I take great offense to that. This is not people that are making six, seven figures. These are people that are struggling to get by and what?
 will sacrifice for themselves to ensure that their children have the proper education that they need, regardless of where it comes from. They will decide the best education. But if at some point they feel that that's at City Honors or Olmstead, they should have every opportunity just as any other City of Buffalo resident does. Mr. Paraletto?
 Thank you for allowing me to speak. I just wanted to abstain on the record. I just spoke with Corporation Counsel and because of a position I have in a request regarding Buffalo Public School in my neighborhood, I just want to reflect that I'm abstaining from this vote. I'm sorry. It wasn't clear what that was. So I want to be on the record as abstaining from this. Okay. He wants to recuse himself. I'll make the motion.
 And you are... How motion that he could excuse... The motion is to recuse and just give me the reason. What was the reason? I've taken a position on a Buffalo Public School in my neighborhood that I live in that addresses their policies and procedures. So that's why... Okay, so the reason is in your profession...
 You have a conflict of interest because of a client that you have. No, no, no, I'm sorry, because... And I'm sorry, I just want to make it clear for the record because I know this is...
 I have met with Buffalo Public School officials about making some policy and procedure changes to a school that's in my district, which may be in conflict with this resolution. So I don't want to, so I want to, that is why I would be refusing myself from voting on this. And let me finish. Is this on this? Yes.
 Yeah, on Council Member Fairlotto's? Oh, no. No, let me finish that one first. And you have seconded? I'll... Okay, it's been seconded by Council Member Fontana. Council Member Franczak has a vote on this issue. Yeah, just a point of order on that. Let me understand this. We are recommending a recusal because of a policy position or a professional position? Because a policy position does not fall under the rubric of excuse.
 I don't think. If it's a professional, you know, in other words, if you're voting on something that impacts on, you know, some business you're in or whatever, then you can be recused. I think we need to be clear what the charter says and what allows recusal. Maybe it's very open-ended, but, you know, I think we need to know under what circumstances there's a recusal. Okay. Is this on Mr. Fialetto's? I just wanted to go back. Is there a motion? I thought this was going to education. It is. A second.
 So do we have to approve it to go to the education committee? Well, what they are saying is that they don't even want it to go, when they state that, that they don't even want it to go forward to education, which they can. Thank you, sir. Which they can. Because when we make the motion, what it is saying is that a majority want it to go to the education committee. So when there is opposition to it, if it does not have the majority...
 then it can't go to the committee. So it does not just, a resolution does not just automatically go to committee. And I'm going to finish this with, on yours. I'm going to have Corporate Council give their opinion.
 Karen Gordon for council. My opinion is that I think he should still remain on the record as refusing to accept himself only because I'm not at this point 100% certain as to what the charter said. If it goes to committee, then he has a second opportunity to vote as he chooses. And so for now, I would say retain the decision and once we get confirmed that, which I will do as soon as I get back to the office, you can decide how you determine to vote in the next...
 like a mini
 So the one thing that it doesn't affect is the numbers, because by having at this point two to vote in the negative, and the third, that still takes away that vote from it moving. So it still needs five to move forward. Ms. Frenz, I can ask you. Now, in five, are you talking about the recusal or are you talking about the item itself? The recusal. The recusal needs a second. Okay.
 Now, you need a motion and a second. Right. Mr. Fontana seconded. Who made the motion? Oh, you're going to make the motion. I'm sorry. I apologize. Yeah. Mr. Fontana made the motion, and then it needed a second. Mr. Scanlon just seconded.
 I record me in the negative to the recusal recusal I can't think of a you know then what I prefer to do because I like order I wanted can we make a call and just take a look at the Charter right away get the answer and then that way we can come back and although we almost at the end of the agenda and revisit that part and then we are we're on solid one
 Yes, you can take a minute, and we'll come back after Mr. Wyatt has the floor. Okay, and I'm going to have to go on a negative. Bones Citizen is in my district, and I've been through that. I don't know the numbers. I think what Mr. Wingo has said, there are some mayors. I know Mr. Radford has talked about it. I'm not going to go into the deep conversation of it, but I know that there are some issues regarding how students are admitted to city honors. But, again, for me...
 the school in my district that I see that is Mr. Gruber, the principal, has been very cooperative. It's for me to do that, I think would send the wrong message. And I think it's something that, again, if we have a venue to ensure that students and families are,
 accommodated when they're interested in going to a certain school, I think we have to work from that vein. However, I do think that there needs to be some revisions and the school board needs to look at how do we ensure that families who want to go to these schools are on our site looking at it because I've heard that. But in this particular case, I know Olmstead, from my experience, has been one that families who have been interested in going have gotten there. So from that point of view, I don't want to be...
 I don't want to vote on this one only because in my district, this school has been a model to ensure that families who are minorities are able to go to that school. Thank you. So we are getting clarification on the issue. Mr. Wingo? Yeah, the resolution clearly says that we want to support the efforts of the Board of Education. I don't know who read this. I don't know if they read it.
 Because it clearly says it supports the efforts of the Buffalo Board of Education to diversify the admission to City Honors and Olmstead.
 I am merely stating that I am in support of the efforts of the superintendent and the board of education to diversify the admission for city honors at Olmstead. And then it says support the policy change that the school district is trying to implement, of which I did count out those five policy changes that they're trying to implement.
 So, I don't see how this, and all respect to Councilmember Wyatt, I don't know how this really could be a signal, a negative signal. I support city honors. I support Olmstead.
 I don't support the lack of diversity in those schools. That's what I don't support. And again, too, let me just go back and reiterate the fact that we have Buffalo public school students who are equally eligible and qualified and capable to succeed at a city honors.
 And again, please, if a parent feels that Catholic education is right for them, then by all means, go to your Catholic school and have fun saying your Catholic prayers. But at the end of the day, please, just don't try to block the people who have been living in Buffalo this entire time at a chance to be admitted to these high-performing schools. Now, my wife is a schoolteacher. I'm a substitute teacher.
 We reiterate everything our kids come home with. A lot of these families don't have the home structure to be successful at a city honors or an homestead level.
 But at the end of the day, we have so many students who do and are. And again too, this is beyond me. And I don't want to say it's an act of cowardice to vote against it, but at the end of the day, what are you afraid of? What are you really afraid of? The bottom line is, it says we're supporting the efforts, the efforts of. This is not something I made up. This is an effort by the school district to diversify the admission process. Not a Wingo process.
 So at the end of the day, to block this is to say we don't want it diversified. We want it to stay with these Catholic families or these affluent families who think that they have a better chance than city honors and the rest of the school district does. That's what I'm saying. Thank you, sir. I'm not sure who's rung in, so I'm just going to go by hands right now because we're out of order as far as it comes from on the screen. Thank you.
 Mr. Prokosem? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to reiterate, no one has said anyone from outside the city of Buffalo should receive any sort of preferential treatment. I've never said anyone inside the city of Buffalo should receive any sort of preferential treatment. You know, I...
 Councilmember Wingo said that this is just something a resolution in support of what the Buffalo Public Schools doing I am understand that I did read the resolution. I always read the resolutions I am NOT in support of what they're trying to do To be let me be clear
 And I wish we lived in a perfect world. I wish every Buffalo public school functioned the way Olmstead and City Honors did. It would be magnificent. But they don't. These are high-performing schools which should be reserved for the best of the best. You are tested in, and you should have to test in. And once you get down to a certain level, then it should be by lottery.
 It should not be based on anything other than that. If you're a City of Buffalo resident, you're qualified to get in. You get in in the particular order that you can test in. It's that simple. Was someone else on the floor? All right. Council Member Franza?
 And, again, if there are any parents out there who aren't happy with the education their kids are receiving in the Buffalo Public Schools, there are avenues to get into some of these other schools, these private schools, the Catholic schools. There's the Bison Fund and other things of that nature they can utilize. All right. What I'm going to ask, let me, I don't have my computer, so she's looking it up. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me just be clear on my comments. Okay.
 I do think that there needs to be something addressed. I've heard from Mr. Radford and others who have said that there's been a problem in students, African American or minority students, getting into city honors, and I believe they've been working towards that. However, I don't see and I don't have information in front of me that speaks to the school that's in my district. So if I'm going to vote on something, I need to be very much aware of what I'm speaking to because I'm not going to put myself out there
 if I don't have the information. So if I'm given information that speaks to this resolution, then I'm more than happy to change my point. But I don't know. I don't have the information. I know I've gone through Olmstead. I've visited. I've talked to Mr. Gruber. I've had very many conversations with him on his school, and I've seen diversity in that school.
 So if I give them additional information that shows that it's to the contrary, then I'm definitely on board with saying, okay, let's make some changes. But right now, from what I've seen, and again, that's a physical eye. I don't have the actual documentation. If there's some documentation that can be provided to me, I'm definitely much in favor of ensuring that there's diversity in these schools, these specialty schools, that in some cases folks feel that they're on the outside looking in. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 Okay. All right. I think we can disconnect it from here. All right, we're going to get you set up. Mr. Chair, one last thing. And then what I want to do is I want to hold this in advance so that we can move this issue forward. Yes, sir. Just one thing. This is saying that we're trying to make sure that we give preference, not preference, but we don't give preference to non-residents because a lot of the –
 A lot of the students who are at City Honors and Olmstead are now residents. And this is the resolution that says that the school board, not Wingo,
 was trying to diversify the admission process and that's all i have mr chair i would have hoped that this went to the education committee so that we can further dialogue and speak on these issues but clearly my colleagues don't feel that that's necessary so i do appreciate mr wyatt's comments and i do appreciate whether i disagree i do appreciate mr scanlon and mr glomick's comments
 But at the end of the day, this was an attempt to show that the Common Council supports the efforts of the school district, again, the efforts of the school district to diversify the admission standards and processes of Olmstead and City Honors. So, again, where I can appreciate all of the different views, I really do appreciate those views. I don't agree with those views, but that's the last comment I'm going to have on this, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much.
 All right, we're going to hold this item in advance. Is everybody okay with that until we get clarification? All right, so we're not going to hold it in advance. Council Member Frioletto, you have the floor. Did you have a, were you? All right, so the, okay, now let me state it all. The, we revisited, go ahead. So the motion now is to rescind the recusal second by Council Member Golombi.
 Is there, so you're not making, not doing anything at this time, so you're leaving it to go to? I spoke with Corporation Council, and we will, if this goes to committee, and then the council votes on it, I will be, I'll talk with Tim Ball within the next two weeks just to clear that up. Okay. Okay. Majority Leader Rivera. Mr. Chairman, I'm...
 I can understand there's passion on both sides of this issue, but what's before us is to send it to committees so they can have a dialogue, so they can have an exchange of ideas. It doesn't mean that at this point we're agreeing on anything with regards to the resolution, only that it's going to be discussed in committee. And I think at the very least,
 There should be an opportunity for conversation, discussion, exchange of ideas, debates. The same way we're having them here, they should be able to have them in committee. And for us to just say no, don't even have the exchange of ideas, the debate, the ideas in committee, I think there's something inherently wrong with that. And that concerns me. Council Member?
 That really concerns me. I'm for debate. I'm for exchange of ideas. We may not agree at the very end when it comes to a vote, but there is that opportunity. And so I think it should go forward to committee, have the exchange. It doesn't mean I necessarily agree with every point that either side is making on this, but at least they have an opportunity to have that conversation. Thank you.
 All right, what I'm going to ask is, let's keep the decorum of this council. We have the vote. The vote, it is going to the Education Committee. And I want to be clear now, we have passion, we have compassion. At the end of the day, we're still the Buffalo County Council. Council Member Scanlon, Council Member Wyatt. And with respect to what Council Member Rivera stated, I'm sure there are items within the Education Committee that could be used to discuss this.
 But I saw this resolution, I read it, and I wanted to make it clear that I was against what it was supporting. It's that simple. Thank you. Last comment, unless there is a new comment. Councilmember Wyatt. My last comment is that I wish that you missed it. If Councilmember Wingo didn't put in this resolution regarding the individuals who were
 city residents and that was kind of the issue. So in my opinion, if I had seen that, I probably would have took a different stance because I certainly want to make sure that city residents have an opportunity for city schools to get education first.
 if someone's in Williamsville and Hersheykiewaga, let them go there but not come into our district and take seats from residents who have stayed before. So I understand his comments now which I didn't at first but now I hear it clearly that this is addressing the individual students who are not residents in the city of Buffalo and them having a seated table but it doesn't speak to that. It just kind of talks about something else not even speaking to that issue. That's my last comment. Alright, so that being the last comment
 we it is going to education committee next item item 81 has this waste remediation of the american axle plant motion to adapt the remainder to city second by council member franzen item 82 create a food safety education program for deli stores motion is sent to ledge second by council member lumbet item 83 i'm sorry did you
 Councilmember, this is not right. Wyatt, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to speak to this item. I think through our deli meetings, something came to my attention regarding some of the activities and some of the processes of the deli stores that concerned me.
 And I know that we have the agriculture department that oversees our deli stores, but I want to thank Doris Corley in my office who did a lot of research, who found that the agriculture department doesn't necessarily have to go and inspect every store.
 We, me and myself and Councilmember Fontana thought it was Erie County that went and did the inspections, the health inspections. They don't. It's the Agriculture Department. And they have a specific guideline that they do so. And it's based on the
 gross receipts of that store, which is a little bit puzzling because I don't know who does the math and checks that, but I think that since the City of Buffalo is not in the health review or inspections from that aspect, I thought that to create a food safety education program from these deli stores, because they're so crucial to our community, is appropriate. Of course,
 I know that New York City does this. They have the deli store owners go online and take these tests. And they make certain that they're very much aware of food safety. That they can't go get food from Sam's Club, leave it in their car when it's 80 degrees, and bring it back into the store and put in the cooler two days later. So I think this type of information could be very helpful in ensuring those who
 who own these stores, who run these stores. These stores are becoming very crucial in our neighborhoods because as Mr. Wingel said earlier, we don't have a lot of supermarkets in our districts, but certainly to give them this type of platform to ensure the safety and soundness of our foods program in our communities is definitely something I think is appropriate and on point for the city of Buffalo and the residents and these deli store owners to make sure that our residents are safe. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Council Member Farnsworth. Can I be added? You want to put you in? Oh, sure. Put me in too. Council Member Revere, Council Member Franczak, Council Member Scanlon. You want in? Council Member Fairlittle, Council Member Golombet. All right. Item 83. Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt items 83 and 84.
 Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, April 11th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, April 11th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, April 11th, 2 p.m. Special Committee. Committee on Education, Thursday, April 6th, 530 p.m.
 Councilmember any announcements? Councilmember Wingo, Councilmember Franczak. Thank you Mr. Chair. For the record, the meeting for the Education Committee is online with the right, the correct date which is April 4th. Again, I'm April 6th. Oh, exactly. I'm getting my fours mixed up. Everybody stop. April 6th! 4-6-17. 4-6-17 at 5-30. Alright. And then our stick horse meeting is
 is this Saturday at 8.30 we're inviting everyone to come out. We are still growing. Yes, April 8th. April 8th at 8.30 we are still growing. We are asking for everyone to come out and get the information that we have available for you if you live in the Madison District. And if you don't live in the Madison District, still come out. We're looking forward to seeing you all then. It's free breakfast. That's right, free breakfast. If you don't live in the Madison, go get your breakfast.
 Council Member Franczak. Thank you, Mr. President. Last Friday, the city of Buffalo officially kicked off the Easter season at the Broadway Market, which is the epicenter of all Easter activities. Not all, because I see there's egg hunts and everybody's doing their thing, and Mr. Wingo forgot it. So after I finish my announcement, I'll announce his announcement. But all are invited during the Easter week to the event.
 Broadway Market. There are a lot of people at that ribbon cutting. And also there's a tremendous amount of support, which you have been in the forefront of supporting the Central Terminal train station to have that train station. It's very important for that community. This entire council and many elected people and citizens supported it. And I know you've been very vociferous on your Facebook and on the radio and elsewhere. I think it's great. And you have been supportive of the Broadway Market. I see you there with your family and all are invited. Yes, we're very excited.
 during this Easter season and all throughout the rest of the year. But also there is the Dingus Day parade, which started with three or four floats about eight years ago. Now there's 10,000 people show up and there's dozens and dozens of floats. And it gets bigger every year and that will be on the day after Easter on Dingus Day, Monday, April 14th, starting at 5 o'clock on Clark Street and then going around the Broadway Filmer neighborhood.
 All are invited to celebrate and to take part in those festivities. And also on behalf of Mr. Wingo, he does have an egg hunt. Yes, indeed. Annual Easter egg hunt, and that will be Saturday, April the 15th, 2017 at 12 noon, starting at Mount Olive Baptist Church. Is that right? Thank you, sir.
 Good time had by all. Did I miss anybody in this role? And Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, thank you, Chair. Um, just want to announce and thank, first of all, I want to thank my CPLs, my E-District Police Chief, uh, officers, Councilmember, you know, Mr. Threatts and Mr. Floyd. Um, they are sponsoring a housing enforcement information meeting on tomorrow, which is Wednesday, uh, April 5th at 6 p.m. at the Edward Sanders Community Center.
 If you have any concerns about individuals on your block who don't take care of their property, you need to come out to this meeting. Judge Kearney is going to be there, our inspectors, as well as our police department, as well as myself. So if you have some concerns, you have an opportunity to come and find out what the process is. So I want to invite all the residents of the city of Buffalo, especially the University District,
 for this activity I think is really informational and again I want to commend Officer Threats and Floyds, our CPOs as well as their chief for this idea. Lastly I want to announce a change, a meeting for the University District Special Meeting regarding LaSalle Avenue. We've been having a lot of problems with the traffic at LaSalle and Bailey because of Bailey Fish and Seafood Place which is a
 a great business in our community, and is doing a great job. I mean, you go there on Friday and on Saturday, the traffic is crazy. So we're looking at changing the traffic pattern from two ways to a one-way. It will assist the LaSalle Avenue residents to have parking on both sides, as well as the patrons who come to the Bailey Seafood location to be able to park and not get tickets. So I want you to come out on Wednesday, April 12th.
 at the Edwards-Saunders Community Center from 6 to 7.30 to voice your opinion, voice your concern if you have any. But I'm hopeful that we can get this changed because, again, Bailey Sioux Food has been an icon in that community for many, many years. And I will hate for it to have to close because of a traffic pattern that we can change to make it safe for,
 for their patrons because coming out from the south to Bailey on a Friday or Saturday is very dangerous. So we want to change the traffic pattern to keep people safe and to keep that business open and viable in our community. Thank you. All right. And from me on...
 April 7th, Friday, I'm going to be going door-to-door in the Ellicott District by appointment. You can call our office. I'll be out in the community from 2 to 5 doing house calls. You need me to see something in the neighborhood, you can call 851-4980. I'll be out for three hours, and we'll call you 15 minutes before we arrive at your house on this Friday, April 7th. Councilmember Fontana.
 We have an Easter egg hunt also. We used to always try to beat Damone's Easter egg hunt, but we never could. He's got a ton of kids and a nice event. So try to find Mastin's. But if you're over in Lovejoy, you're going to be on April 14th. It's the Thursday at 11 a.m. at the Hennepin Community Center. Mike Cacciatore, Stephanie, and my wife are all busy getting the thing together, and I want to get all this chocolate off my dining room table. So please come on April 14th.
 at 11 a.m. in the morning. The kids have office school. We notice that the Thursday morning is a good time to do it. People like to come, and we had a lot of people last year. So Hennepin Park on the 14th. Thank you, council members, for all that you're doing in your districts and for great council meeting today. Healthy debate is always, it's not a negative thing. Anybody who sees a healthy debate doesn't run out and say, oh, my goodness, Common Council is broke. No, Common Council is working.
 People elect us, and when they elect us, I don't think they elect us to be rubber stamps. They elect us to have an opinion, to fight for what we believe in, and at the end of the day, the votes are where they are, and they are where they lay. But it does not make one an enemy of another for having an opinion. This is why we live in a free society, in a society in which we get to vote. I hope that our...
 uh boy scout who is with us today was able to really get a lesson in civics this is what happens people discuss and they're passionate and compassionate if they are true to what they have been elected to do saying that motion to adjourn second by councilmember fronten we adjourn