3, 2, 1. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombet. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pritchett. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Stand for the pledge. Thank you.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Psalm 127, the very first verse. Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain.
 unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stand guard in vain. As each of you has found in your council districts, a peaceful day can be quickly interrupted by anything but peace in these days where violence has extended across our city and the country. Nearly a month ago now,
 I stood here and thank God that at McKinley High School, the shooting and stabbing that as horrific a day as it was, no one died. A week ago today, when you all were leaving these chambers from meetings and everything broke loose on the streets of our city with a chase that extended through many neighborhoods, many parts of our city, tons of gunfire,
 a day when peace broke into horrific violence yet again. I want to thank God for the same thing we did at McKinley High School, that with all the bullets shot, not a single police officer nor civilian died a week ago today. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stand guard in vain. I thank God
 for another time when lives were spared. I know in each of our districts, there are times that people tragically are losing their lives and the violence. I never want to lose track of that as we pray for our city, but I want to thank God for things that were intended to happen that didn't get the outcome that the one who tries to destroy a city would want.
 When the mayor and the police commissioner and the DA came to the microphone, all three last Tuesday night used the word miracle. So I think it's okay for us to use that word as we pray together. Would you pray? Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that you are the one who watches over cities and we invite you to do that yet again in our city. Lord, our hearts are grieved at those that have died.
 We take that role so seriously and many here have been involved in those situations. Lord, push back the spirit of violence and death, the one of destruction that would keep trying to consume families and neighborhoods. Lord, we ask that even now you'd guard our city of Buffalo. Father, we pause to thank you for what was termed a miracle just a week ago in a horrific night that there was no death.
 Lord, thank you that you guarded mile after mile, neighborhood after neighborhood, bullet after bullet, and that the outcome wasn't all the blood that could have been spent that day.
 Father, moving forward, we pray that each of the council members and this collective council will have wisdom. Pray for the police department, all those in law enforcement. We pray for principals and school administrators. We pray, Lord, for all those that are determining how to push violence back. Give them wisdom beyond their own. And, Lord, even now we ask, guard our city.
 we commit it to you in your precious name amen amen thank you dr warner council members memorials council member columbus thank you mr president uh the riverside neighborhood uh lost several uh key residents uh over the past two weeks
 former buffalo detective police department detective and uh captain bernie turner 97 years old um he passed away after a wonderfully long life i remember when i was in college in the mid 80s i had thought about taking the buffalo police exam and he said to me he goes watch barney miller and he goes 90 percent of police work is barney miller and 10 percent is hill street blues
 And I remember talking to other police officers over the years about that. And they would say, yep, until I got older. And they said, who's Barney Miller? But we also lost another Riverside resident, Jerry Serba. Both of her and Bernie were members of the Greatest Generation. Jerry was very active at All Saints Church as was Bernie. She was also active in Veterans Affairs.
 She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her J.H. Williams, Belmont, Albemarle, Seabrook Street friends. Donna Spinda also passed away.
 joining her husband, David Spinda, who was one of the greatest activists at the North District Riverside neighborhood had ever seen. Donna got sick about three weeks ago. She actually called me and I called her back, called her back, left a couple of messages and I didn't hear back from her. And I got a bad feeling because she was one of those people that would, you know, she would call you back right away. And so I left a third message and her daughter-in-law, Missy, called me to say that, you know, it was, it was the final hours and
 It was just very sad, you know, as you lose parts of your neighborhood and yourself. And last but not least, Jerry Prunette had been a long time Riverside resident who moved out of the neighborhood a few years ago when he had some health issues, but they're all going to be very, very sorely missed by their families, their friends, the Riverside community, the church community, and so many other groups. So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Gnabry-Wachowski.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to enter the name of Chris Cooley from Corpus Christi Church, who worked up all the way almost until her last day. And the only thing bigger than her personality was her pierogi earrings on Dingus Day. And she was really, truly an icon of that church who kept all those festivities alive. And a lot of people don't realize how hard it is to keep these old churches that are over 140 years old.
 up to date and make sure that there's programming and festivals that go off without a hitch. And not only do I pray for her family, but for the person that's going to try to fill her shoes. Thank you. Any others? Councilman Bowman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to enter the name of Danielle Tobin. She was a Lovejoy resident, lived on Benzinger Street, and she was part of a very active family in our community. Thank you. Any others?
 During another, we also remember our employee, Greg Peoples, his sister, Brenda, passed and was funeralized this week from True Bethel Church. He continued to work almost up until that day. And so we're praying much for Greg and, of course, for all of you.
 for all people, especially during this time now, who have given their life for the freedom of our country and the freedom of other countries, namely, one is Ukraine, who today their president was on live, still crying out for what is happening to his people. The devastation, probably none of us in this room would be able to understand
 or possibly be as strong as the people of Ukraine have been. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 I was asked to recognize a certain day, and today we are recognizing today education and sharing in the city of Buffalo, New York. And so today we have with us, and I'm going to mess up some names in a minute. So Rabbi, why don't you come down and help me a little bit with these names. Thank you.
 so that you can be properly recognized and tell us about this day that has been requested. This Rabbi Mindy Labkowski, did we get that correct?
 I did it perfectly. That's the easiest part of this whole proclamation. Whereas equality education is one of the significant foundations of continuing success of our state, our country and our society at large. And in the city of Buffalo, we strive for the betterment of all of our citizens through an increased focus on education and sharing.
 Whereas through providing the possibility of an excellent education for all, especially children with which to gain knowledge through rigorous study, we can create hope for a brighter, kinder, and more united and prosperous future in the lives of so many. Whereas one of the leading global advocates for the advancement of education, the- Lubavitcher Rebbe. Lubavitcher Rebbe, not as hard as I thought,
 Rabbi Menachem Schneerson. Okay, as he said, stress the importance of moral and ethical education as the hallmark of a healthy society and strongly urge that education be reinforced by the incalculation of strong moral values, especially as expressed in the universal divine moral code known as the seven Noahide laws.
 And whereas in recognition of the outstanding and lasting contributions toward the improvement in world education, morality, and acts of charity, he was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal. And for more than 40 years, the United States Congress has established his birthday as a national day to raise awareness and strengthen the education of our children. I won't read all into it, but this council has indicated.
 a great leader in our education committee and has remained very, very steadfast in our commitment to supporting education. Now, therefore, it gives me great pleasure to proclaim Tuesday, April 12th, 2022, to be Education and Sharing Day in the city of Buffalo and call upon government officials, educators, volunteers, and citizens to reach out to those within the communities and work to create a better,
 brighter and more hopeful future for us all. Thank you for recognizing that. I'm just to say a few words, hopefully not too long. So I brought with me a picture of this is a picture of the Lubavitcher Rebbe. Maybe put it right here for a moment.
 The Rebbe always taught us that before we speak or before we do everything, it's always important to remember the people that are less fortunate than us and give a little bit of charity. So just take a moment, I'll put some charity in the box. This resolution is in tribute to a great man with an important message for every one of us here and people all over. Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, known as the Lubavitcher Rebbe, became the leader of the Chabad Lubavitcher movement in 1950.
 Although he was considered one of the most influential rabbis in modern history, and he concentrated his efforts on rebuilding and energizing the global Jewish community after the devastation of the Holocaust, he paid great attention to the needs of all humanity at large. When other leaders worked diligently to grow a following around themselves, the rabbi trained the students to move out to every corner of the globe and to set out outposts of education, light, and love.
 Today, Chabad Lubavitch has representatives on every continent on the globes in over 40 countries and every state of our union. The Rebbe's global impact is so great that he's the only rabbi to have been awarded the Congressional Gold Medal and to have a National Day of Reflection proclaimed annually in his honor.
 The rabbi taught that every individual, and in fact, every individual action has an impact on the entire universe. The rabbi emphasized the importance of education and good character and instilled the hope for a brighter future in the lives of countless people in America and across the globe.
 The Rebbe taught that education in general should not be limited to the acquisition of knowledge and preparation for a career. Instead, the educational system must pay more attention, indeed, the main attention to the building of character with emphasis on moral and ethical values.
 Over the last four decades since 1978, starting with President Jimmy Carter all the way till today, President Joe Biden from both parties signed the Rebbe's birthday this year, the 11th of Nisan, which this year in the Hebrew calendar, which this year corresponds to April 12th as Education and Sharing Day.
 Education Assuring Day is about creating conversations. It's about the conversations we have with our children around the dinner table, the conversations we have with our students in the classroom, and the conversations we have day to day out and have an impact in the hearts and minds of our young ones. The Rebbe taught that in truth every person is an educator, and we must be mindful of our ability to impact the lives of others.
 It is my hope that not only this day, but every day, we will encourage Buffalonians, young and old, to pursue education and service and to foster character, values, and morality for a brighter future for all. Thank you, Mr. President, Council President. May you be blessed with much health, happiness, and success in your personal life. And may your tremendous efforts on behalf of all the citizens in Buffalo be divinely blessed. Thank you for allowing me to be here today. Thank you.
 Also just a moment, I would like to gift you a book about the Rebbe, about his life, and that's free. So thank you for everything. You said it's free, so as long as it's not $50. If any of you want to read it, I'm sorry, you all can't read it. You can give it back to me. Thank you so much. We'll keep it here at City Hall. Thank you. Can we get a picture? Sure, sure. I think the folks from... Hamishka, Mami? Hamishka, Mami? Hamishka, please. Have a cup of tea.
 Thank you so much. Hope I'm not out of line. No, you're fine. I don't mind. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
 Thank you, Rabbi. I appreciate it so much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yes. Although that's for you, Rabbi. Oh, wait a minute, Rabbi. I think you... I think you don't. I think you have some of my notes. I left that for you. You had it all. Thank you, sir. Yes. All right. A motion by
 Mr. Rivera, seconded by Ms. Stanley, the minutes of the State of the Union, Ellen Marks, on the 2nd, 2022, are approved. Councilmember, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections? Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us, not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have a question or need to review one of the items that is before you.
 I have two different agendas, so I just want to make sure which one is correct. The agenda 144, generator 144? Yes. If you have the mics are going in and out, so let's switch them. I'm not going to pause every time. If you have the agenda item from 1117 that has been updated, the latest one is 144 on the bottom. All right. From the top. Item number 1, a point direct air parking.
 Motion to approve items one through three. Second by council member wise. Item number one, point director of parking. We ask that the director of parking appeared before the common council within 30 days so we can introduce ourselves and he can talk about his plans for that department.
 So we'll put that on the moving motion that will be required that he would appear before this Common Council at a choosing of the Common Council.
 which would either by be here or we can send a copy of this to a committee, although we will approve it to get him to that committee. We can send it to, well, it's in civil service, so we can send it to civil service. Okay. So we'll approve this with the condition that is on and simply file a copy for civil service so that we can get them before civil service. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 Item number four, local landmark 1274 West Avenue. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number five, report of sale 86 and 88 Kilhoffer. Motion to approve items five and six. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number seven report is still 21 spies. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number eight, request to enter into a designated developer agreement with Douglas Development. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Council Member Fairletta. When on this object item, normally I would send a designated developer to committee. However, Douglas Jamal or Douglas Development has,
 already had several meetings and one major meeting with the community about 204, 206, and 208 High Street. This has been a building that has been falling in. It is designated as a historical site, a landmark, and it needs immediate structure
 stabilization. It is a danger to the community to keep it there. This does not sell Douglas Development, the property, but makes them the designated developer. But what they have agreed to do is to go in immediately and start to stabilize that structure. And him and, well, his team meeting with the community has met with a great amount, more than I've seen in a long time,
 of excitement for people of how he is handling those, the residents in the Fruitbelt and saying, I don't even have a plan for this. I just don't want to see this fall in. And I'll work with the community to make that happen. And so that's why it's been approved right away.
 Item number nine, 2021-2022, second quarter gap response. Motion to send to finance. Items nine and 10. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 11, certificate of necessity transfer of funds for police non-capital equipment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number 12, certificate of necessity capital projects.
 Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 13, Certificate of Necessity, Citywide Parks and Planning. These are late files. If there are no objections, motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Majority Leader, the motion is typically receive and file on Certificate of Necessity. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. We'll rescind the previous motion, second by Councilmember Scanlon, and then enter the motion to receive and file, second by Councilmember Scanlon.
 Item number 15, permission to enter into contract ICON. Motion to approve item 16 through...
 Through 33, Mr. Chairman. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto, you have the floor, sir. On item 28, citywide mill and overlay, you had requested information from the commissioner. He has provided some information with regard to D and H paving and compliance with the apprenticeship program or law.
 We've looked at their track record going back to 2019. They did meet their goals for men and women or minority and women. They barely made the workforce development for females and their apprenticeship program was really low. They needed 10 percent. They came in with 2.91 percent.
 They have two outstanding contracts right now with the city of Buffalo. The one in question that we had discussed was the, uh, the one to 28, I believe is it 28 item 28. Uh, there's 73% of the way there. Um, there 73% of the work has been done. Uh, their compliance is 5.87. They need to get to 10%. Um,
 I guess what we need to do going forward is making sure that there's some teeth in the compliance that we have on the record.
 If they don't comply with the apprentice program, that they get penalized, and if they continue, it becomes progressive to the point where they can't bid on the contract. They're disbarred from bidding on the contract. We have to condition these contractors to comply with the laws that we have. That's why we made the laws.
 So they have an opportunity. 73% of the work's been done. They still have some work to do, and they'll probably –
 come into compliance. But I think we have to monitor this to make sure that they're in compliance and that it is progressive in terms of the penalty. If you don't comply, eventually it can be disbarred from bidding on these projects, regardless of the work. And my understanding is they do fairly good work, but the laws are the laws. You have to comply with that. So the other one was the Bailey and Virginia Street project.
 Virginia, Bailey and Virginia, and there that's only 7.4% of the work so they got a long ways to go to comply. But as far as not complying previous years I think we need to track that and keep an eye on them to make sure that fall into compliance. Totally agree. We had this brief discussion in caucus. I've stated for the record.
 There's several problems that I have with this company. Number one, being 73% done and still little over half of the apprenticeship goals. We've been here, and I can't remember which council member sponsored the kind of compliance. I'm not sure who sponsored it, but we have it now. But if it's not followed, what's the use having it?
 73.27% done, and they're only at 5.87% of the apprenticeship goal, which means that there's going to be some apprentices that come in, possibly for weeks. This was not a program that was put into place and it was before.
 I didn't put into place, it's been there, wasn't always followed. At the end of the day, this wasn't a program that at the last minute, a contractor could come up and then get all of his apprentices at two weeks and give you two weeks work and then put you back out to pasture. To me, there has to be a much deeper dive into these companies, because one company we learned is going to, one company bid all of our streets, one company.
 is now being split up. But if only one company has all of the streets in the city of Buffalo, and one of the greatest complaints that we get, I know what my office gets, is streets, sidewalks, potholes. That's all day. Streets, sidewalks, potholes. So if you take this one company
 And you expect this one company who, by the way, I believe one of these is one who is not in compliance. Is that correct or am I off? I want to make sure because I don't want to- Off-free or DNH. So now, and especially when we talk about the American Rescue money, which is money that should help to bring people who have been affected by COVID to a better position. Who has been more affected by COVID, right?
 And I'll say it bluntly, than people, than poor people and poor people of color. But some of the largest contracts we are about to approve for some of the biggest work will go to a company in Chihuahua. It won't go to the guy who black tops around the city and needs that kind of lift up and maybe he gets a smaller contract.
 And I want to thank the Commissioner for being honest yesterday. One of the things he said was about the administrative costs of having different companies. That's the cost you pay to make changes in a city.
 It's in front of us now. I don't know how at 73% of the work, he brings it up to 10%. Of course, this company is exceeding their NWF goals, but did not exceed them in 29. Didn't even make them. Didn't make their apprenticeship goals.
 But they'll get another contract. And to me, and you brought it up yesterday, Majority Leader, I mean, I just think it's unfortunate. And I hope as we go forward and these contracts come before us that they're split up into bite-sized pieces, especially for small businesses who either live in Buffalo, whose headquarters or something is in Buffalo, because we're taking Buffalo money
 Then it goes to some company and they get everything. They are finite. They can't handle. If we have three or four companies doing paving streets and sidewalks, we can make more of an impact than we've ever made in the history of the city of Buffalo in one year. By splitting those up, by giving greater opportunity, and we talked to the commissioner about it yesterday, rather than one company getting them all, now we got to wait and
 Hope that by the end of the season, they can produce what they what they can what they promised they can produce. But this is a big problem for me personally, because that's what my office is inundated with. And with this money, especially that we're going to be deciding on coming up.
 From the rescue plan, I think we have an opportunity to do something that is new, that is groundbreaking, and that lifts all boats that want to be lifted. Blacktop, if some folks can't do nothing else, they learned how to blacktop and can come in blacktop. Give me a dead end street. Give me something so that my business comes up. This to me, as you said, there ought to be, this has to be done.
 what our policy says, financial. But if the contracts are millions of dollars and people are being fined $100,000, well, that just means I don't put in a pool this year. But for the people who live and work and play in some of our poorest communities, I think they would like a pool of this money too. Just my thoughts. Anything else, Attorney Leader? No, motion to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 34, appoint senior account clerk typist. Motion to send civil service item 34 and 35. Second by council member, Noah Kowski. Item number 36, Buffalo firefighter retirement incentive program for injured members. To approve items 36 and 37. Second by president pro temp Scanlon.
 Item number 38, appoint Assistant Corporation Council to. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 39, appoint Corporation Council. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, appoint Building Coal Specialist. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 41, appoint Commissioner Permits and Inspection.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 42, appoint telephone operator. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Item number 43, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 45, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Miscellaneous item number 46, petition to reroute Dingus Day Parade. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 47, mental health,
 Issues and the police. Motion to send police oversight. Second by Council Member Colombo. Item number 48, potholes and driveway skirt to hurdle. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number 49, letter to Council President Pridgen. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Volman. Item number 50, firms and violation of Buffalo's apprenticeship law.
 Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. And if you take a look at that, this is what I was just talking about, is those firms that are in violation of our apprenticeship law. Item number 51, 2022-2023, full store license renewals. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Furlow.
 Item number 52 city law relating to law maintenance motion is sent to CD second by Council member, Lombok petitions item number 53 special use for 31 Hoyt motion to send to legislation city planning board items 53 through 60 second by Council member Wyatt submission list civil service item number one, a point it specialist service.
 Motion is to approve items one through and including five. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item number six, appoint Deputy Director of Planning. Motion is to receive and file item six through and including nine. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 10, transfer of funds, police.
 Motion to approve item number 10. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number 11, Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center Funding Agreement. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions that have been filed. Council Member White. Just to second by Council Member Bohn. Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanted to say thank the executive director for coming.
 and having some very candid conversations with us about the Beverly Gray Center. We think that Beverly Gray Center has not really lived up to its potential. However, he seems to have a plan.
 We want to work with him. We want to make certain that this is successful. And we're asking for quarterly reports to give us an update to make sure that what he says and how he executes it happens. We know that we talking about economic development in our community. The Beverly Grace Center has an opportunity to do that. Beverly Gray herself was someone who was a staunch advocate for businesses
 in our community. And so we want to see this successful. So again, we thank him for the conversation and we look forward to the future reports and talking about the improvements of the exchange now. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank her. Legislation item number 12, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 194, Food Stores. Motion to approve items 12 and 13. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 14, Special Use, 8 Willinson.
 Motion is to approve with the following conditions that it has a two-night minimum for adult max per rental and a one-year sunset so that the applicant returns to the council one year from today to review, and the applicant is in agreement with all of these conditions. Seconded by Council Member Golombeck.
 item number 15 full store license 149 silver farmer motion to approve items 15 and 16 with the conditions set forth by council member Golombek which includes one year sunset provision motion to approve with those conditions second by councilman resolutions item number 61 ecida boundary funding
 Motion to send the finance. Motion to send the finance, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 62, Elkhorn Movie Nights in the Park Fee Waiver. Motion to approve items 62, 63, and 64. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 65, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 437, Taxi Cabs and Cycle Buses. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba.
 Councilor Emerson-Dolumbak, you had the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. There was one mistake that I made on this resolution that I shared with corporation council so that she, do I need to read this in or should you or? Okay, we're going to add one minor adjustment, section A1 should read hourly rates, $36 per hour for one or more passengers.
 So we note that for the record, council members find that amendment. All right. The final adjustment will be made in writing, but what you just read into the record will be a part. Yeah. And it is going to committee so that it will age next week. Absolutely. And I think we have representatives from the taxi committee coming in to talk with us. Does that change the amount that it was? It will. Yes. Yeah. With the change in the gas mileage and so on and so forth. Right. Thank you. Okay.
 Item number 66, wave fees for Cherry Blossom Festival. Motion to approve item 66, 67, and 68. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Councilmember Golombek has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 66 is the Cherry Blossom Festival.
 at the History Museum and Delaware Park. And I just wanted to mention that, you know, as much as things change, they stay the same. In December of 1941, there were angry citizens, residents of the city of Buffalo, who showed up at the History Museum to chop down the cherry trees.
 because they've been gifts of the Japanese people in government. And I think they did chop down one or two before they were able to stop the crowd from being in a frenzy. And the point was, was that we did not want necessarily the residents of Japan to suffer because of the
 atrocious day that lived in infamy, if you will, December 7, 1941. And here we find ourselves, you know, today, 70, 80 years later, and we still have atrocities that are being committed across the globe.
 And, you know, it just makes me think of the situation that we have with the sister cities that I was very appreciative that you called me, I think last Friday to talk to me about, because in one regard, you know, I'm very uncomfortable with severing that relationship, which was not done by this council.
 but I understand at the same time with what's going on in Russia and Ukraine, why there are these concerns. And I was glad that rather than, I believe the administration did not end the relationship, but we temporarily suspended it in the hopes that there still would be a communication that would go forth in the future because we don't want the people of Russia to suffer or in particular, the city of Tver
 because their government is a criminal government in all honesty, committing war crimes and so on and so forth. But I just wanted to share that when I was going over this this week, I just kept thinking of the similarities there, thank you.
 Thank you. And the mayor did reach out. I was with him at the press conference and everyone was invited because it was temporarily, as you said, the council. There will be a resolution that will be submitted next meeting that basically I mean, it's already done, but just stands with Ukraine. Yes. So we didn't chop the tree down, but we definitely put a fence around it.
 And I think that sending out that message was important and not cutting off. As you said, the mayor did not cut off just it's over. But until something is worked out that that not thought, I think personally and especially as a veteran, that it was some things have to happen to really send a message to the people of Russia, because if the people of Russia don't rise up,
 Sometimes the head of a country will not listen. So I think that all of these moves are very important. Thank you. And again, I would hate to be in your history class because you remember dates and times and numbers and people, and I would fail miserably. So thank you for updating us. Next item. Item number 69, Commissioner of Deeds.
 Motion to adopt item 69 and 71. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 72, fee waiver, Corpus Christi. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number 73, urging the passage of all eight bills of the crash victim rights. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just being an individual who actually rides my bike at least about 1,000 miles a year, a little over,
 I think it's important for us to protect our pedestrians and our cyclists in our streets. And these atrocities that happen mainly happen due to negligence of automobile operators. And these traffic deaths and injuries are major. And when the person survives, their lives are changed forever.
 Now, I have to be quite honest, this last year in 21, I did not ride as often because of all of the reports of the fatalities from cyclists, of cyclists, by drivers. And it took me this year to get back out on my bike at five in the morning when there were no cars on the street.
 just to overcome my personal fear of riding again. So I believe that we need to do everything we can to urge our state delegation to pass the eight bills that are in their committees to ensure the safety of our pedestrians and our cyclists. And this resolution just suggests that this council supports these eight bills that supports the safety of our cyclists and pedestrians. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item number 74, call on administration and finance for ARP committee board members list. Motion to adapt the resolves remainder to finance. Second by council member Scanlon. Item number 75, calling for continued dialogue on New York state bill reform.
 Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to make it clear that the council is not supporting all the governor's changes on bail reform. We don't know all the details. I did have a conversation with the majority leader, and I shared with her, I appreciate their efforts on bail reform. I think it's something that had to be done regarding pretrial issues. Absolutely. However, some of the things that I'm hearing,
 Some of the things that I'm seeing in the city of Buffalo concern me. All the numbers may be going in the right direction, up, downstate, all those things. That's great. But where I live, I'm concerned. The residents are concerned. And so bail reform has to be tweaked.
 If they have to train the judges, whatever they need to do, they have to do something. But it can't be still that an individual with a gun charge is released because the judge doesn't use his discretion. Why he doesn't use his discretion? I don't know. But somehow they have to make that as part of the bail reform. We can't keep going and fighting. I know that the delegation downstate really wants to have this continue, not to make any changes.
 But again, as a council member in my district and what I see and what I hear, I'm concerned. So I'm not saying throw away the baby with the bathwater, but I'm saying let's be sensible. Sometimes these changes in our history change.
 whether it's the Rockefeller laws or the current laws regarding marijuana, they change right or left, extremely right or extremely left. Well, there's got to be something in the middle because I don't want to continue to endanger people in the city of Buffalo.
 because we want to stand on some percentages and numbers that go one end to the other. At the end of the day, one life is one too many. And to have a dangerous individual go out and create another crime because we want to give them the benefit that, hey, you've been unjustly accused previously. There was a recent issue where the individual had gun charges. What happened? He was out there using the gun again.
 I think that during our conversation, Commissioner Grimalia talked about a number of incidents where individuals with those same type of issues have been released and caused more crime. I'm not saying all of them, but at the end of the day, one is too many. And so, again, we're just calling for further dialogue and tweaking this to make certain that all residents, upstate and downstate, can be safe regarding bail reform. Thank you. Thank you, Council President. Council President Scanlon.
 thank you council president um back in 2019 2020 myself council member ferraletto um i think some others i don't want to name names if i was wrong just in case um we uh voiced concerns over the extent to which the bail reform package reached that was being passed in albany um the reason for the concerns that i raised was the und potential unintended consequences
 that it could lead to. I am not saying that criminal justice reform is not needed. I think anyone that would sit there and say with a straight face that our criminal justice system didn't and continues to need reform would be being disingenuous at best. However, I also believe that anyone who would have argued that there wasn't going to be major issues was either being naive or duplicitous. We have seen that.
 time and time again in the past few years since bail reform has taken place in Albany, residents who have been charged with crimes, major dangerous crimes, continuously repeating the same crimes and being let out. And while awaiting the court systems process to play out, commit murder, rape, and other despicable and heinous crimes.
 Just this week in New York, there was an arrest made in the murder of an 18-year-old Bronx resident. The person who was arrested was out, released without bail just this past November for a criminal weapons charge.
 There was an article in the Buffalo News last month, which laid out the situation where there's been a gentleman in this city who a resident in this city, who's been arrested eight times since New Year's for auto theft and continuously let out these people, these citizens who are committing these crimes. Again, they're continuously being let out and leading to additional crimes.
 we have seen a major increase in the dangerous crimes across this city and across this nation recently, in particular when it comes to gun violence. And as legislators, I think we need to be doing everything we can to ensure the safety of the residents of the city of Buffalo. I applaud the governor for her attempt to scale back
 some of these reforms. I think it can be done in a very thoughtful and a very precise manner. If you're bringing the right people to the table, all the experts from various fields to do so. I'm in full support of the resolution. The only problem I have with it is I just don't think it goes far enough.
 I would like to see us this body be in full support of scaling back some of those reforms that took place, and ultimately making the city a safer place. So again, I am in support of the resolution but I think you can see coming in the future for me a resolution that throws more weight more support behind some of these scale back so thank you. Thank you.
 Councilman Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. They're in Albany right now discussing the budget reform in the stadium and reform is right there being discussed while they're discussing the budget. We've heard from district attorneys throughout the state. We've heard from law enforcement regards to concerns that they have.
 The thing that we don't have, and that's why we asked them to have a dialogue, is we don't have the empirical data that they have.
 to make those kinds of determinations. How the 2019 police reform, how has that affected crime in the state, whether it's increased or decreased? We don't have that data, but they might have that data. And we're asking them to take a look at that. And we don't mind if they change the law, if they can improve on the law. There's nothing, I don't think there's a perfect law out there
 I don't think there's a perfect law that this common council has ever passed that perhaps can't be tweaked and changed and improved on. And that's exactly what we're asking them to do. If there's areas in the law that can be improved, let's improve. I don't know what the recidivism is. I don't know if there are repeat offenders out there. That's something that they can look at and say maybe we made a mistake. And I don't mind saying we made a mistake. The key is can we improve it?
 And there are certain interests out there that are pushing one way or the other regarding being able to release, giving judge discretion to release people or to hold people in custody. That's something that should be looked at. I mean, they're the deciding judges. I hate to see somebody released and then be a repeat offender or has been a repeat offender. So this asked them to take a good look at it,
 And I don't mind saying we made a mistake or the laws can be changed. And we've changed laws here. We've amended laws here on the Common Council and the state can do it as well. So thank you very much. Thank you to my colleague.
 Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to say I'm also in support of this resolution and I remember when Council Member Scanlon and Fairletto put their resolution out as well. I supported that. There have been noticeable changes and effects in our community from bail reform. I do support the impetus and nobody wants anyone wrongly incarcerated, but we do have
 drug dealers who are getting arrested and being back out that same night. It affects the community in multiple ways. So I'm supportive of this resolution. Thank you. Council member Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just simply put, of course, all of us might believe this, but regarding the statistics of the populations and our corrections systems,
 no other community is hurt more by the criminal justice system than the african-american community and i specifically remember council member ferraletto and ironically two white council members speaking specifically about how there will be unintended consequences and i also specifically remember how we advocated to ensure that folks who were disproportionately incarcerated
 were made whole some way so that they did not have to serve a life sentence just because they had been released. I was informed of these 10 points that were published by the governor the day of the phone call that we received the 10 points. I didn't receive a phone call before then, not to anyone's discredit, and not to disparage anyone. It's just that I agree.
 The conversations need to be intentional and deliberate before things are published to the community that suggests that lawmakers and policymakers are already in agreement. We do need to be very prudent as we move forward because there will be unintended consequences. But at the same time, we do need to make sure, and I want to be specifically clear, that
 Those folks who are African-American, who have gotten stricter sentences, who are incarcerated substantially more than any other population in this country, when they are approaching the bench, they get harsher judgments,
 to ensure that we include the vantage points of everyone. We talk about diversity, equity, and inclusion. We need to make sure that we are being equitable as well when we are making these decisions and having these conversations, and not just talking about inclusion, but being inclusive, and ensuring that every voice is heard. And I have to commend
 our approach and ensuring that we are very careful how we enter this conversation again, because no matter what we do, we're never going to get it right the first time. That's what these bodies are for, so that we could amend and revise and modify. I think that it is very important for us to do just that as we move forward with bail reform, such a sensitive topic
 as well as a hot topic that folks like to talk about these days, or that they could have a platform to say something on. But at the same time, it impacts my community specifically. And for whatever reason, Antioch Baptist Church has a lot of, maybe it's because of the broadcast on Sunday. They hear the radio, they send the letters in, we reply to the letters, and then they come to worship with us. Maybe that's why my heart is so huge.
 for that population. But I think that those of us who have firsthand knowledge and family members who have been adversely affected by some of the changes and some of the revisions and modifications need to be at the table, not just because we're popular or we have a big bullhorn to speak through, but that they have been affected by these policies in place. They could give us first person anecdotal data
 albeit not empirical data, anecdotal data, to ensure that we are hearing from the hearts of the people on what they would like to be done with these reforms. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you can see from my colleagues speaking, that this is a very complex issue. And as a council member, it's very important that, or at least my approach to being a council member, is to look at things very practical because we're the lowest level elected official that's closest to the public. And we often deal with a lot of quality of life issues and concerns. And there's one I just wanted to opine on that happened in my district that was pretty frequent in the Broadway Fillmore area where there were a lot of carjackings that oftentimes had turned violent and they were happening frequently.
 uh almost neighbor to neighbor so where some folks were were being victimized their neighbor then across the street who had committed that crime or allegedly had committed that crime against them had moved across the street and they had expressed you know very serious anxiety and stress and and what that means um to be brought back so
 I think that when we talk about this, it has to be, you know, very measured because, you know, these reforms were meant for a reason. And they are complex. And when you do talk to certain judges or other folks in the criminal justice sphere, they tell you that, you know, that there could be other responses. You know, for that one reason that happened in my district where
 you know, when neighbors were committing those crimes against each other, that there could have been a restraining order. It didn't have to necessarily be a change of bail. So I think that this conversation is very complex and I look forward to our state legislature continuing. Thanks. Council Member Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. You know, this, the bail reform, which I, and reform in general, as my colleagues all said, I think was so desperately needed, but it reminds me of what had happened in the early mid 1990s when the three strikes law was passed.
 And, you know, we had problems with an upsurge in crime and violent crime. I remember in the city of Buffalo, I think 1993, 94, 92, we hit all time record highs for murders throughout the city. And I remember, you know, people demanding that something be done. And I think, you know,
 Mr. Wyatt said, you know, said it very well, you know, you get this left, you get this right response. And I think that you sometimes need a common sense response. I've always hated a one size fits all rule, because I think that one size very rarely fits all. I think that, you know, we need to have judges that have the opportunity to be able to look at
 each case individually. And when you do have the bad apples that are coming back over and over and over again, that they have the opportunity to be able to be more strict, just like I think 20 years ago, 30 years ago, that the judges should have had the opportunity, even if it was three strikes, some poor kid that's selling a small amount of marijuana, that's technically three strikes, they were being treated the same way as somebody that had heroin or, you know, a very, uh,
 big dealer in the city of Buffalo or elsewhere. So I support this resolution as well. I think that the reform is a first step, but it's not the end step. And I think that the reform also needs to be reformed. And I see these problems in the district that I represent, Black Rock and Riverside. We have a median income of about 20, $21,000. There's a lot of poverty that is there. It's a very diverse community.
 very diverse neighborhood, you know, all across the board. And unfortunately it has brought, you know, with what's happened over the last couple of years, a lot of crime into the neighborhood. And I get calls from business owners and residents of every ethnicity, every racial group, every background imaginable, you know,
 literally at times begging for more police protection. And they get very, very frustrated when you try to explain to them that, well, gee, I saw the same person get arrested and they were back out that same day. And they get very, very frustrated and don't understand what's happening. And I would like to see judges have that opportunity to be able to look at each individual case
 And then if you have bad judges that are making bad decisions, whether it's too far, you know, too strict or too lenient, that gives us the opportunity to vote them out of office. But I just think that this one size fits all approach never works. Thank you. Thank you. And I want to support my colleague's resolution. I know that he labored over it for a while of how to present this and to say.
 Continue the dialogue. Bail reform, you know, was basically put into place so that those who did not have cash were being kept in jail, where people who had cash, maybe for the similar thing, were being let out of jail.
 And we have seen some consequences. We just made a change today that's going to age of taxis and the price. And we really didn't have a whole lot of bellyache because it's going to committee is going to be discussed and we'll figure it out from there. I don't think that saying let's look at this, especially when it's a big issue and when really Albany.
 has put us in this conversation with the calls to the council members from the governor's office, with the calls from the elected officials. We didn't ask to be in it necessarily. They asked us. And so like any other government body, it'll be a vote if someone feels like it shouldn't be a discussion, they vote no, but it will be the decision of the body
 once there's a majority of how it is represented in Albany. I, for one, if once this vote is over, if the sponsor who is simply asking for more conversation, and obviously since our governor and some of our state delegation is not on the same page saying, go back and
 and talk to me is not bad. And it could in a great way benefit people who have been unfairly treated in the system if it is done correctly. And at the same time,
 with with that said, because I agree with you both for you doesn't have to be either or the other doesn't have to be well, if I'm on this side, then I'm wrong. You're wrong. Where in the middle do you say how do we keep community safe? Because to be quite honest, and I think this is pretty well known that probably say almost half of the homicide funerals that are done in the city are done by me.
 I got it. I talked to criminals, people who said to me, I messed up in my life. There's some people who have messed up and they know it. Bail reform is important and I think that this resolution doesn't say that.
 But I would suggest to, if you would take this as a friendly suggestion, after this vote is over, because this is being discussed right now, because this council has been brought into this conversation, that that be sent immediately to Albany at the close of this meeting by email and by fax of this Buffalo Common Council weighing in, saying there needs to be that discussion. Anything else? Yes.
 accepted so um you already got a second yes all right any objections to this all right it's unanimous we asked we direct council staff at the end of this meeting to not only fax our delegation the governor and was there anyone else in our state on both sides of the house all right
 Next item. Item number 76, Transfer of Funds, Citywide Parks and Planning. Motion to approve items 76 and 77. Second by Council Member- And 78. Second by Council Member Rasheed N.C. Wyatt.
 If we could go back to two items, one was item number 15, number 15. We didn't have a motion on that one. We didn't record a motion, I should say. Item 15, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombek. And then I wanted to go back to one more item because Council Member Golombek mentioned it. And I didn't want to blindside him if he didn't want to vote for this. That was 71. I forgot it was there. I said it'll be here next week.
 we did the resolution we hadn't voted on it so i just wanted to make sure everybody knew that that was the action that the mayor took to suspend it it says ending it but if there was anybody in the negative i didn't want you to see it later and then go i didn't know all right you're carrying them item 71.
 Are you okay with that one? Yeah. Okay, good. I just wanted to make it very transparent and clear. Council Member Wyatt. Mr. President, can we go back to item number 12 in legislation? Motion to visit item 12 in legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 And I just want to be added to that ordinance amendment I know that council member Bowman and Noah Kosti strengthened a little bit in the food stores, and I definitely agree with their approach to, I believe it's at safe cam stores have to have safe cam.
 Yeah, in tobacco that because I know that we're seeing more and more stores advertised on their buildings, which is not supposed to be allowed. We've asked permits and inspections to do some targeted enforcement on that because it seems like we're getting back to putting liquor and all those things. And that's not appropriate. So I definitely want to be added to that resolution.
 And I'd like to also, since you just brought it up, because we just had an incident, and I want to thank the store owner. He actually was sitting in the chambers when I had some words to say about his store and Bart Simpson smoking a blunt.
 on Jefferson. What was surprising to me is how many people felt like, oh no, this is okay in our community until you ask the question, would this be accepted in any other community? And then the answer was, well, no, but, but no, but what's not acceptable anywhere else shouldn't be acceptable. And so I wanna join to that too. Thank you council members for that. You get it. Council member Revere. Add council member Revere as well.
 One thing we don't want to do is go back to the days where we have stores that are running the community instead of the community running the business being there. All right. Anything else? Announcements for you? Let's get to official announcements first. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th floor of City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105.
 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend. Regular committees, committee on civil service is Tuesday, April 12th, 2022 at 9 45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, April 12th, 2022 at 10 AM. Committee on community development is Tuesday, April 12th, 2022 at 1 PM. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, April 12th, 2022 at 2 PM.
 Councilmember, is there any announcements for your district? Councilmember Wingo. Saturday, April the 9th at 930, the Mastin District Stakeholders Breakfast Meeting will be conducted again. Again, this is every single month, every second Saturday, 930. We share information. We've seen last month how effective and how...
 well the community works when it works together. So we are encouraging everyone to come out for the Masson District Community Stakeholders Breakfast and Meeting. We serve you a very hot meal and you leave full of information
 and full of great food. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski, Broadway Market. No, no, no. Council Member Franczak would have a fit if you do not announce about that Broadway Market. Of course. But I always say that it's always a great time to shop there. But especially for the Easter season, there's a lot of local vendors that have kicked off this season to shop at the Broadway Market.
 this holiday season. And there is another event at Explore and More next Saturday, the 16th, that is at Explore and More that is
 sponsored by National Grid. Fill more district residents for a limited amount, have free tickets to explore more and can get them from my office if they call 851-4138. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All righty. Council Member Bowman. The Lovejoy Easter egg hunt is this Saturday at Hennepin Park at 1230. So come on down, you can get a picture with the Easter bunny as well. This Saturday, 1230 at Hennepin Park.
 I get rich would have a fit if you hadn't have announced that to whose new portrait is now bigger than any other portrait on the wall. I watch it on the left and he moved to the left and I moved to the right. He moved to the right. Councilmember Wingo. Yes, just correct. The stakeholders meeting begins at nine. We give information from nine to nine thirty. Breakfast begins at nine thirty. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 For those who are just coming for the free food, 9.30.
 Councilmember why they think this person I just want to announce to the residents just to remind them that we continue to have the district police meetings at 995 Kensington, every second Wednesday at 6pm I know a lot of residents have asked they want to talk to the chief, please this is how police reform happens relationships, and he's done a great job chief men's has done a great job in assisting the residents in the university district and an additional of joy as well, master and as well so thank you.
 Thank you. Anything else? All right. Hearing nothing else. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Brian J. Bowman.