And we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golenbeck. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Prichard. Here. At ease. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Pritchard. Here.
 Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. Can we stand for our pledge? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
 We will now have our invitation by the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. The scripture that struck me as we've come into some amazing weather last week and into this week is from Song of Solomon, Chapter 2. I'll need to modify it just a bit because in the Middle East, the winter is considered rainy season. Here, perhaps more snowy season.
 So the scripture says, look, the winter has passed and the rains are over and gone. We'll say the snows are over and gone. The flowers are springing up. The season of singing birds has come and the cooing of turtle doves fills the air. The time of spring, as the things that have been dead around us for so long linger on, reminds us, I think, all of how much has changed.
 needs to come to resurrection as we come into spring of 2021. My wife and I'm sure lots of us are involved in spring cleaning, getting rid of things that were part of the old that can't come with us into the new. And for a whole lot of people, there's a season of, I believe, flowers springing up, singing birds, cooing turtle doves that are filling the air.
 There's a sense of new life being spoken and spring clean where the old is swept away. Jewish tradition to do that within the Passover season. And now that season is here and upon us. And for many of us, there are things that we need to let go of and things that God wants to bring into new life in this new season. And for the city of Buffalo, it looks pretty gray and dark and bleak during winter. It's starting to come alive.
 And I think for all of us right now, we are ready to come alive from a year that's been anything but that for too long. Shall we pray together?
 Father, I thank you that you're the God of seasons and that seasons don't come to stay. They come to pass. They come and we move through them in sequence. And Lord, this season called spring is one that many of us anticipate as all kinds of new life starts to come. But to embrace the new, there has to be some spring cleaning of some of the old stuff. So Lord, I pray that you give these leaders of our city grace to know the things that need to be cleaned up.
 the things that need to come to new life, the things that need to be prepared in the soil in order for that to happen. Help this session to be one where we welcome you to come and clean old things away and speak and breathe new life into us in our city and our neighborhoods. Thank you for your powerful presence year-round, but especially now as we get to come out, Lord, let there be a celebration season in the days ahead, we ask in your precious name. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmembers, any memorials? Councilmember Wingo. The city of Buffalo, the Antioch Baptist Church mourns the loss of a pillar in the community and in our church in the person of Pamela Hicks. Pamela Hicks was a faithful member of the Antioch Baptist Church. She lived in a Madison district for decades until she moved over to the Fillmore district.
 And she was known to the community to be a mother in the community. Some call her Mama Pam, Auntie Pam, I call her Pam. And in church, she was always affectionately known as Sister Pam. She sang with the Varsons, you may recognize her if you were to see her picture. She sang so much that everything just sounds different without her voice in it.
 She was a praying woman who, no matter what the occasion, if you asked her to pray, she always could petition the throne of grace on behalf of anyone at any given moment. She had a huge heart. She was always giving and always sharing, even of her last and the last year of her life.
 she was able to spend that time with her son and his wife. And Terrence Bowman is blessed because he was able to have his mother with him
 the last year of her life. No, she was not sick the last year of her life. It's just God's providence that she was able to live with her son and her son lived with her that last year. And a quick, quick, quick, quick little story. She had gotten sick two weeks ago
 And her sons were keeping in contact with me, Daryl and Terrence. And right before my wife and I got on our plane to come back home to Buffalo, I got a phone call from her eldest son.
 I couldn't enter because I knew if I entered the phone, it was going to cut off because we were going in the air. And as the plane was going in the air, I just let the phone die out as it did, put it in airplane mode. And as I was in the air, sitting in my chair, trying to catch some sleep, because I knew that she was ill, something just hit me. And I woke up and I looked out the window of the airplane and I just looked at the clouds and it was the spirit of my good friend, Pamela Hicks.
 And when we landed, my phone blew up once it got back in the range and signal. My phone blew up and and it was, in fact, you know, Pam had passed on and my wife and I were in flight on our way home and Pam was in flight on her way home.
 And what is really ironic about this entire situation, and I don't mean to take up too much time, Mr. Chair, but I really believe that she is so deserving of this little brief talk, that when Pam died, her son had already prepared her a new place. He had furnished a place.
 She had all of her things where she had wanted And she was on her way to this new home That he had prepared for her down here But on her way driving to her new home Pam's heart failed And she passed away Before she had gotten to the hospital And it's just so ironic how she had made all these preparations We had made all these preparations For her to move into her earthly home But Pam had already taken flight to her
 eternal home. Pam was a soldier for Christ. She was a soldier for people. She just loved and supported everyone. She will absolutely be sorely, sorely missed. Thank you for this time and thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Problem, sir. Sorry for that loss. And especially for the Antioch Church and all those in the community. Any others? Council Member Wyatt?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to pray for the family of Dante Wright, who is the latest victim of police, an unarmed black man who was shot by a police officer. I'm praying for that Minnesota community. This again speaks loudly to the importance of us having police reform. It's incredibly important and every time we have to say you were sorry for someone's loss or our prayers with you, it's just
 unconscionable that we continue to say that. But my prayers go out to this 20 year old and his family and the loss of a father and just continue to keep these people and those who are harmed in these situations in prayer. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? We remember Jamie Moore Nelson who was laid to rest today. Very active Bills fan, her and her husband. I believe they had
 15 children and about as many grandchildren with another one on the way. Unfortunate accident or situation on Main Street the other night, other day. So we are praying for her husband and all of her children. And then Janice Bell was an evangelist who actually helped to...
 fund one of our mobile ministry buses that go out to the street to feed the hungry. But she not only helped to fund it, she would be on it out in the streets. And we have so many pictures of her feeding the hungry and helping on the clothing bus and giving clothes. And it will be a tragic loss for the city, but she lived her life well. Any others?
 Seeing no others, we always remember our service, or our men and women who may have given their life for the freedom of our country since our last meeting and for the freedom of others. For all of the names that have been called and those that have been expressed, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 There is a special presentation today, and we are so glad that actually Millie from our office brought this to our attention, and she was so excited when every council member of this council signed off on a resolution that recognizes medical lab professionals.
 and they are on Ms. Cadero and she has a team behind her and they have their mask on. And I'll read a bit of this because it is important that we recognize as many people as we can. And often those folks who are in the lab, those who are getting results for us,
 They have not always been recognized. And we wanted to make sure, and I want to thank Millie Castro for, well, now she's married, Millie in our office for actually bringing this to our attention. Whereas medical lab professionals play a vital role in the diagnosis and prevention of disease, yet the dedicated efforts of laboratory professionals often go unnoticed by the general public.
 as well as by the very institutions employing them. Whereas maintenance of the highest standards and progress toward improvement in the quality of laboratory services depends on the dedicated efforts of professional clinical laboratory science practitioners. Whereas medical laboratory professionals often work behind the scenes to bring real time results and information to the health services field, which has never been more important.
 And whereas in the unprecedented public health crisis brought on by COVID-19 pandemic, medical laboratory professionals were called to the front lines in order to ensure efficient and effective testing of the public. And now therefore we, the members, all members
 of the Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that April 18th through April 24th, 2021 will be recognized as Medical Laboratory Professionals Week to acknowledge the enormous roles of those heroes. Thank you to all of you who do what you do and as you see everyone is clapping and again
 every council member, and that's a lot to get every council member to sign a resolution during a pandemic, but they did. They made a way. And so, Ms. Cadero, if you or any of your team have anything you'd like to say.
 First, I want to thank everyone in the council and you, Council President. Behind me here is my lab supervisor in transfusion services. One of my coworkers, Justin Yaw, he works in transfusion. He also works in the ESL. And then my other colleague, Joan Fizer, who is one of our senior techs in the transfusion services.
 It was something that on a happen chance visit with my cousin Millie that we were talking about it and and I asked her, I said, you know, how do we get people To see us to recognize that we're here. We've always been here. We've been in the background since the beginning and You know, aside from a few jokes on TV, you know, we're crawling out of the basement or something like that. We got so little recognition and
 And I just felt that after COVID and, you know, the constant Zoom meetings and the daily updates, because they weren't like weekly or monthly or biweekly, they were like,
 daily, you were getting a change every day from the start of COVID. Some people pulling in 15, 16-hour work shifts, trying to get all of the testing done so that we could have, you know, these patients being cared for the way they needed to be cared for. Learning how to handle convalescent plasma because that's what we do. You know, we get it. We thaw it. We get it out to the patients.
 And it's been a trying year for all of us. And while you do have all the doctors and the nurses, there were people that have always been here that I just felt really needed support
 a shot in the arm sort of say to say, hey, you know, we're recognizing you. We know you're there. And we just want other people. We just said, how do we get other people to understand we're here as well? So, you know, and it's been it's been an interesting ride. I think, you know, my colleagues would say the same. It's been a an interesting year.
 Well, thank you. And thank you to your colleagues and Millie Castro-Littles. I had to remember the last, the new last name, her wonderful husband. And so we thank you sincerely. If any of my colleagues have anything you'd like to say, I'll pause for a second.
 but thank you and I can't see everybody so if everybody if someone has their hands up I can't see you uh but thank you very much for all you do please express and you you if you have not received the proclamation physically uh it should be delivered to you shortly okay great thank you thank you and congratulations thank you very much all right all right all right on a motion
 by majority leader Ramirez, second by President Pro Tem Stanley. The minutes of the stated meeting held on March 30th, 2021 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files? My view, I can only see, and maybe this is me. Hold on one second. There you go. Now I can see everybody. That was me. Any objections to the late files?
 Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us today. Not taking away your right to pause if you need to read something or review something. We have an item out of order. Mr. President, the motion to take item seven in CD out of order. Second by Council Member Scanlon, by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item seven, Buffalo River Natural Resource Damages.
 Motion to open a public hearing. Motion to open a public hearing, second by President Potemkin. Is there anyone here to be heard on this item? Council President, we've been joined by John Heffron representing the law department on this item. He joins us by phone and Mr. Heffron, if you press star six, that will unmute you. He is unmuted. Good afternoon everybody. This is John Heffron from the city law department. Yes sir, did you have anything you want to say on this item?
 This item today, the hearing, is in connection with one component of an overall settlement package that the city has been working on for more than five years with respect to the recent $43 million cleanup of about six miles of the Buffalo River and also the city ship canal.
 And it also is in connection with the resolving of potential liability of the City of Buffalo and the Buffalo Sewer Authority from claims that otherwise would be made by the United States Department of Interior, United States Fish and Wildlife, and also the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
 So this overall package with respect to the Buffalo River will resolve a lot of potential liabilities of the city of Buffalo and the Buffalo Sewer Authority in connection with a great deal of cleanup and water enhancement.
 work that has been done over the past seven, eight, nine years. But the hearing that we're talking about today really only addresses or deals with a certain component of that overall settlement. And that is in connection with the.
 a conservation easement along the north bank of the Buffalo River extending from Houghton Park along the north bank of the Buffalo River to Ogden Street and then across Ogden Street to the city of Buffalo, West Seneca Line. It is basically the north bank of the river.
 and interspersed about every hundred feet or so are dead ended public streets or paper streets. And that is the object of this hearing today in order to impact or change the layout of the streets. In this instance, an abundance of caution, we are having this hearing because the placement of a conservation easement
 on the dead-ended streets. And again, those are mostly just along the north bank of the river. They are not actually streets. But in order to...
 And so, uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh, Uh,
 placement of the conservation easement area on the dead-ended streets at their April 5th meeting, but that meeting was canceled, as some of you may know, and it will not be on the agenda again until the next meeting, which I think is April 19th.
 So, um, overall, and I think I've talked with, uh, council member Bowman about this and also with the city law department that we're not asking for an overall vote today on, uh, the overall settlement, but we are nonetheless looking to proceed with this hearing today because it has been scheduled. And the reason why we're not looking to have, um, uh,
 The overall approval today is because that procedural stuff at the planning board. We weren't able to have that addressed the way that it should be. So that will be April 19. So basically what we're looking to do is to have the hearing that we're having now. And I hope I was able to explain some of that.
 but not to approve the item or to consider the full item for approval until the next county council meeting. Are there any questions? Let me, Councilman Bowman, did you have?
 Yes, thank you, Council President. I just want to say thanks to John. He sat on the phone with me for over an hour just kind of walking me through this and answering a lot of questions I have, but I'm comfortable with the item and it's about protecting this land.
 and we'll be able to do some things behind Houghton Park eventually with improvements that we're looking at, but it's really about protecting the land moving forward. So I just wanted to say thanks to Mr. Heffron, the law department, our public works department, parks. There was a lot of work that went into this.
 over the past five years. So I appreciate all their efforts. And so I'm comfortable with it, you know, being recommitted back to the committee after the public hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Was there anybody in the waiting room for this public hearing? No, sir. That's all we have. All right. Colleagues, anything else on this item?
 All right, hearing none, Majority Leader? Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, John. Thank you, everybody. I'm available for questions if anybody has any. Got it. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Bye now. Bye-bye. From the top. Item number one, lease between City of Buffalo and Buffalo Society of Natural Science. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wigle.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number two, 1703-1707 Main Street, Designated Developer Agreement. Motion to send to CD.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 3, Certificate of Appointment, Executive Assistant to the Comptroller. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 4, Common Council Minimum Fund Balance Meeting. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 5, Change Order Buffalo Zoo Cooling Tower.
 motions to approve items 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. Number items 10, 11, 12 with conditions. All right, do we know what, can you bring that back up? Thank you. Do we know if item 13 is gonna be approved? You know what the move is? I believe it should have been marked approved. It was just missed.
 So if you want to keep going Majority Leader, you can. So item 12 is approved without the conditions? No, item 12 is approved with conditions, but item 13, you can keep going down, will be approved. Okay. Item 13 is approved as well? 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and up to 18. All right. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes.
 Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 19, appoint maintenance assistants. Motion to send to civil service items 19 through 25. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item 26, Food Star License 1021 East Ferry. Motion to send to legislation item 26 and 27. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 28, Food Star License 1212 East Lovejoy. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Bowman, who will provide the conditions. Thank you, Council President. The condition on this is just the one-year sunset on this item. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next up. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lytle? Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 29, food store license 360 Williams. Motion to send items 29 and 30 to legislation. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 31, used car dealer 416 Abbott. Deferred to the council, district council member. Thank you, Majority Leader. If we could approve that with conditions that I'll be filing with the clerk's office. Approve with conditions. All right. Second by Council Member Scanlon.
 Item 32 police department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve. You have to do the roll call on the previous one as well. Which number are we on call? Or majority? At 32. We just did 31 that was approved with conditions. And we did 32, which is an approve as well. But she has to call a roll call on item 32. Give me the roll call for 31 and 32 together. Council Member Bowman? Yes.
 Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Item 33, items returned to City Clerk by Mayor. Motion to receive and file item 33 and 34. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon.
 Item 35, comments from public regarding school speed zone cameras. Motion to go legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 36, response to Council Member Wyatt regarding Compass House. Motion to go to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 37, 255 Ship Canal Brownfield cleanup. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fairleather. Item 38, ZMA neg deck. Motion to adopt.
 Second by council member Scanlon. Council President? Yes. This, since the item that this is referring to is being recommitted, we have a last minute update to request that this item, 21-495, be sent to ledge. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by council member Scanlon.
 Motion now is to adopt. Second by Councilmember Bowman. That's the one. The motion is to send to ledge. Right. All right. So we have already rescinded the motion. Now the motion is to send to legislation. The second stands. Next item. Item 39, Fair Finds and Feeds Coalition Speed Camera Program Replacement. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item 40, oppose 86 windspare zoning variance. Motion to send items 40 and 41 to CD. I'm a council member for 11. Mr. President,
 Councilmember Golombic. Yeah, thank you. I just want to thank my colleagues. The letter from Melissa Hamilton is on behalf of the group of people, mostly from North, that are trying to organize litter cleanups throughout the entire city of Buffalo. I want to thank my colleagues. I think everybody was in attention, in attendance at the last meeting and spoke or was supportive of the effort that these individuals want to do.
 and we're going to send it to community development and hopefully be able to come up with something that we would be able to do citywide under an umbrella organization, you know, with programs in each of our nine councilmanic districts. But I'm excited because this is something that's been going on for the past several years in North and it's sort of coalesced this past year, sadly, because the city in general is, is,
 messier than I think it's ever been before. But I've noticed that on some of the Facebook posts that I've read, that I have friends that live in first and second ring suburbs, and they're complaining about the same thing. So thank you to my colleagues and thank you to my constituents in North for being willing to take this on.
 Absolutely, and thank you for your leadership on it. Litter is one of my pet peeves. I encourage people when they see if they are able to catch someone, because the city does have a reward program, a very generous reward program, actually. And what we're noticing in some areas, every, not all of the litter is coming from within the city of Buffalo. One of the persons that was stopped was bringing in his garbage.
 on big trash day into the city and taking it to a vacant lot, assuming that the neighbors would not say anything. And the neighbors did. In that situation, they were stopped. But some of this litter is coming from outside, but much of it is also coming from inside. So I think we, you know, it's a shame we have to clean up after other people. It is
 It is a daily occurrence of mine. So that's why I want to thank you. Where I got to go outside, clean up. And I don't, you know, I'll get on a soapbox, but it's a pet peeve because I don't understand how adults finish eating food and roll down their window and throw it out of the window. And as if it just doesn't matter. So thank you, Council Member de Lombeck, for pushing that forward. And I think all of us have experienced it in some way or another. So thank you. Council Member White.
 I want to thank Councilmember Kolumbik as well, as well as one of our former colleagues, Councilmember Fontana, who has led his team at DOT to clean some of the on-ramps and off-ramps on the 33. So I want to thank him for that because it was very, very nasty. And there were a number of people who had sent messages to my office saying,
 And so we know litter is a problem and you said it, you know, we'll clean up the 33 right at Suffolk and people will get on there and just dump a garbage bag of McDonald's there. And it's just ridiculous. But again, thank you for your efforts and those in your district council member, Bill Lubbock. And thank you, council member Fontana. I thought, so we're talking about litter. I wanted to give him a shout out and thank him for what he's doing as far as the on ramps and off ramps for the 33 things. Thank you. All righty.
 We moved that already, so next time. You got the move, clerk? Yes. Item 42, regarding budget process engagement. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member White. Item 43, opposition to apartment building at 86 Windspere. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Belenba. Item 44, meetings transcriptions. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Fairleather.
 44 should be received and filed. 44, 44 received and filed. So we send the motion second by Councilmember Golombek. Now the motion is received and filed second by Councilmember Golombek. Item 45, letter to Councilman Wyatt. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 46, Greenlight Networks update. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Scanlon.
 Item 47 vote yes to replace Buffalo speed cameras. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Watt. Item 48 University District food store license renewals. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Watt. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt, or Wingo? Yes. I'm sorry. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 49, Letter to Corporation Council Requesting Citizens Review Board Legislation. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Furlough. Item 50, Special Use Permit.
 I'm sorry, Councilmember, before we call it out, Councilmember White, you had your hand up. Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. And I sent this letter asking Corporation Council to assist us in getting a draft of legislation. We've had numerous conversations many months ago. I know the pandemic has really slowed us up.
 But again, in light of what's going continue to happen to individuals of color, I think it's still very, very important for us to move forward on this. Every other city in the state, for the most part, Syracuse, Albany, New York City, Rochester have some form of citizens review program.
 I don't know what makes Buffalo an exception. I know this was not included in the reform action, but I think we can continue forward with it. I know some of my colleagues have concerns of how you do it, but I think we need to just get there and discuss those actions because we see that.
 Police reform is not going to happen unless we continue to push it. I know the Biden administration is definitely looking at police reform, but I think on a local level, there are things we can do to prepare ourselves for this action. I know the state AG, Tish James, said the police should not be policing themselves. If our state AG says that, then we should be taking actions to make sure that that happens. And again, I hope that the Corporation Council can get us something in a timely fashion. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Thank you. All righty. Next item. I'm sorry, you called the item that we did not vote on. Was that item 50? Item 50, Specialty Permit 144, Cottage. Motion to send to legislation and city planning board items 50 through 52. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Civil Service, item number one, appoint laborer two. Motion is to...
 Receive and file items one and two. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Finance, New York State aid and incentives to municipalities payments. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wood. Item four, NeoGov Applicant Tracking System. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Glombeck. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Community Development, item number five, report of sale 70 Brunswick. Community Development. Motion to approve items five and six. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lytle?
 Yes. Council Member Glanbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Legislation item number eight, Food Store License 2106 Selmore. Motion to approve with conditions items eight through 11. Okay.
 A second by Council Member Wyatt. Conditions will be filed by the District Council Members. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 12, failure of City of Buffalo Speed Violation Monitoring System Program and rescinding 19-490. I'm sorry. The motion is to adopt. Motion is to adopt, second by Councilmember Rivera. That's present.
 I'm sorry, I can't see you, so I'm sorry. Was that Councilmember Scanlon? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. You have the floor. Thank you. While I agree that there are certain, I agree with certain stipulations within this resolution, such as providing the school markings, ensuring that crosswalks are there at all times around our schools, and including other physical barriers to make
 our school zones as safe as possible for the children and other people within those areas. I do not agree with all of it, in particular, claiming that the program is a failure, I believe is inaccurate. Statistically, if you reach out to the people operating this, you see that compliance is up through those zones. So it is working. People are slowing down. And I can tell you anecdotally, as someone who drives one every morning and takes their kids to school,
 through one of these zones and drops off people are absolutely slowing down. They're not driving through there. In addition to that this calls for a refund of previously issued tickets. Last year this council, two-thirds of this council approved a budget with a budget line of I believe it's two million dollars from in revenue from these cameras. If we were to issue these refunds
 we would be creating a $2 million budget hole that we approved. And I'm not comfortable doing that after approving a budget with that budget revenue line in there. Now eliminating quite frankly, that revenue line and creating an additional $2 million hole. So I'd like to be marked in the negative. So noted council member Winkle.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I too would like to be marked under negative for the following reasons. This resolution, first and foremost, it has some very incriminating statements in it, first of all.
 I believe that this resolution was written to blame the city of Buffalo for a program. Of course, that we did not necessarily force this with a rollout of a program, but I believe this resolution is an admission of guilt.
 and anyone who is looking to litigate against the City of Buffalo will certainly have this admission of guilt in this whereas in this resolution document that reads the City of Buffalo may be violating the due process rights of vehicle owners because its speed camera citations indicate
 that failure to pay and contest liability by the due date stated on the initial citation constitutes an automatic admission of guilt. But I think that that also says that the city of Buffalo is admitting guilt to predatory type of practices. I don't think that that is appropriate for council members to put the city in a position where we can be litigated against.
 And then it also says in another whereas, the city of Buffalo did not first pursue non-punitive traffic calming measures in school zones before resorting to the use of speed zone cameras.
 That too is another statement that I believe is incriminating. And also it's a false statement in that we did seek non-punitive measures. We continue to seek non-punitive measures. As a matter of fact, we've been asking for bump outs and speed humps for several years. Since before 2018, I became a council member in 2015.
 And we have been asking for traffic calming measures. We have been asking for street markings and crosswalks. We have been asking for flashing lights at crosswalks. We've been asking for all of those things. Now, as it relates to these resolves here that we're looking to adopt as a body, I have some questions that I would like answered.
 which has to do with the funding of the request or the demands that this resolution is making. And particularly number five, it requires the Commissioner of Public Works to remove and replace every speed camera on a main thoroughfare designated under City Code section 479-4 with an appropriately cited solar LED radar speed sign.
 what budget line are we going to get the funding to put up these solar LED radar speed signs? And then again, number six, resolve number six, it says it requires a commissioner of public works to install and maintain cruise zone speed limit signs and roadside flashing beacons, except on main thoroughfare, so designated under the city code 479-4,
 which shall have overhead signs with flashing beacons in conformance with standards established in the manual on uniform traffic control devices for streets and highways of the Federal Highway Administration and associated
 New York State supplement no later than September 1st. Where is the funding going to come from? I would like for the sponsor of this resolution to just answer those specific questions as to where the funding is going to come from.
 If I just as I know this is in legislation committee if we want to further discuss this, does anyone have an objection with sending this to committee next week and we can further discuss all of these items. I can make a motion to send this to committee.
 Well, let me, I think that the proper way to do this is because the sponsor is here, is to find out whether, first of all, the sponsor would like to sign this agreement. Mr. Chair, we've already had an adoption. Two people have signed off. Do we have to do anything else? So, I mean, if there's a majority that wants to adopt, it would get adopted. The, I think one of the overriding questions that may arise,
 that I may have the answer to because this is a resolution and it's being adopted this could evolve into a different type of
 move in working with the administration. Is that correct? Yeah. So some of these questions, for instance, the funding would be something, you know, that we'd have to definitely, if this is adopted, work with the administration, whether that is from the funds that are coming from the stimulus, which we really don't know yet how those will be used,
 or from the capital budget, the next capital budget, or from safe streets. I think that as our corporation, Assistant Corporation Council said in our committee meeting, that this just gives the heart of the council or the direction that the majority of the council would like to go. Then just like the last amendment that came before this body,
 that was vetoed that we worked with the administration to get where we're at now. And so it isn't a set in stone, but it is a starting point, I believe, and a direction. And Council Member White, you can correct me if I'm incorrect. You are absolutely correct. So you are willing to work through those things? Yes. Okay. So Mr. Chair...
 Are we entertaining a motion to send this to legislation? Because we all have not voted yet. We just have Councilman Christopher Scanlon's desire to be recorded in the negative as well as mine. However, Mr. Chair, we have not voted yet. But according to what this...
 resolution suggests I believe it would be prudent for us to send this to committee. So are we entertaining a motion to send this to committee? No the motion that's on the floor is to adopt. That has been moved by the majority leader. Okay all right well then I would ask for a roll call vote that way we can see if this actually has the votes to go to the mayor so that it can be signed off to go to immediate
 immediate adoption for the things that this resolution is requiring or asking for. When we get to the vote, I do not mind having the roll call vote. Council Member Dillon. Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I would prefer to go to committee as well. I have some questions regarding...
 on some of the issues as well. You know, I think that the camera, that this whole project program, you know, has been a cluster pretty much since day one. I think some of it is, you know, much of it is beyond our control as council members. You know, it was unrolled, unveiled, you know, roughly at the same time that the COVID issue hit.
 I think that you know if all things would have been perfect we probably would have been able to work out some sort of a a
 correction on this issue, but I think that there are a lot of problems with it. My other concern, though, is that it seems like we're throwing out the baby with the bathwater. And I can tell you that, and once again, as Mr. Scanlon said, it's more anecdotal, but in my neighborhood, you know, on Military Road and Hurdle Avenue, where I have Graveyard's Academy and West Hurdle Academy,
 the cars have significantly slowed down. I used to get phone calls from the crossing guards, from residents, from the PTO complaining. I don't think I've gotten a complaint. Now granted, much of it is also because of, you know, the COVID that has been going on and the schools not being completely open. But I do believe, and I disagree with some of the callers and some of the people that have said in the past that,
 enforcement doesn't work because I know living adjacent to the village of Kenmore that when we were growing up, everybody knew that as soon as you crossed the city line, you better follow the rules of the road in the village of Kenmore, especially if you were coming from the city of Buffalo, because you were gonna get a ticket.
 You know, we swore that there was some sort of a machine on the radar guns that pointed out, you know, city residents because, you know, you were going to get a ticket there. And you know, while I agree that we do need better markings, we do need speed bumps and things like that. I think everybody on this council agrees with that. I think that we also need enforcement to take place.
 You know, we just talked about litter for 50 years, ever since they had the Native American that cried when I was a child. Mr. Pridgen, you might remember, Mr. Rivera might remember, and there's been anti-litter campaigns and, you know, people are still littering.
 You know, so I mean, I think there needs to be an enforcement that comes along with it. I would feel more comfortable sending this back to committee so that we could talk and discuss it because I do think it needs to be, you know, fixed. I don't think it's completely broken as is, but I think there's a lot of parts that need fixing. So if there is a vote, I'm in the negative. All right. Anyone else want to be heard on this issue?
 I will say that the reason that I'm willing to support this is number one is does not shut down the speed zone cameras tomorrow. There was an addition by the sponsor after discussion that that wouldn't happen until the infrastructure was in place at the school. So if there was a camera down,
 if cameras taken down, it will be after a whole redo of an area and a way of alerting passengers. I'm sorry, drivers. I think because this is a resolution that we can at least have a starting point of saying how we move forward. You know, there was a lot of confusion over the last...
 compromise where we could have overwritten the veto.
 We worked with the administration. So I'm still, and I'm glad to hear from the sponsor, willing to work with the administration in order to keep our children safe. There may be some, I think all of us probably will be able to look at this document and say, there's some things here we'd like changed and we will have the time to do this. This is just a starting point to
 trying to continue to make children safe. If there's no other discussion, we'll call the roll. And this is on the motion to adopt this resolution. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? No. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? No. Council Member Wingo?
 No. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item is adopted. Next item. Item 13, Zoning Map Amendment, Marilla-Hopkins-Buffalo Railroad South, 558 Tift. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 53, Ordinance Amendment, Article 20, Budgeting. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item 54, Pride Flag Resolution. Motion to approve that. I'm sorry, I couldn't see you. Who was that? Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Wyatt? Is that on the last item? Yes, on the budgeting one. All right. Yeah, I want to thank my colleague, Council Member Bowman, for his effort on this item.
 We did a tremendous job working with the Comptroller's Office and our auditors to come up with something. So I thank, you know, Councilmember Bowman for his leadership, as well as Nowakowski and Rivera.
 We met with the controller's office. I think we ironed out a lot of things and, you know, this is not to hinder the mayor from running the city. However, with this opportunity, with funds coming in, we really need to put our fiscal house in order. These are guardrails to assist us in,
 creating a fund balance that is critically important. We don't know when the next emergency is gonna come forth. We don't know when the next pandemic may hit us, but we should be ready. And this is a great opportunity putting this in place. Our regulators have said this is critically important to maintain our rating. And I'm glad that we've done the work to put it forth and hope that the administration will come and be a support of this particular legislation. Thank you. Great, next time.
 Item 55 fee waiver for Shakespeare in the Park, Casanova Park. I'm not sure. I'm sorry did we finish 54? Did you get a first and second? I'm not sure if we had a second or not. 54 was a dot. Right. Did you get a second on it? Second. I don't think so. Okay second by council member Noah Councilman. Item 55 fee waiver for Shakespeare in the Park. Motion to approve. Second by council member Scanlan. Council member Ballman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 56, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion for items 56 and 57. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Item 59, repeal of home rule regarding school zone speed enforcement. I'm sorry, would you bring up the agenda? Yes, I'll send the legislation. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Fiorilella. Item 60, ordinance amendment chapter 479, speed regulations. This item is open. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's been a motion. I think we, this is Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. I think we had, Council Member, if I recall clearly, this item, we discussed it yesterday and it should go to committee for an approval for agent since we need both the two-thirds and the mayor's signature in order for it to be approved.
 Council Member Ferletto, then Council Member Wingo, then Bowman. Thank you. I know I looked, we looked at the charter and I know there's definitely some, I could see that it could be interpreted that way by Corporation Council. I spoke with the City Clerk's office who's confident in it. So I believe that if we have six, we have six votes for it, we could pass this today.
 I made the motion and council member . Council member Wingo. Mr. Chair, I think we need to read the rest of the charter. The charter in Article 3, Section 3-19 procedure for adopting, amending, and repeal of ordinances and resolutions. A, every proposed ordinance, unless the common council by a two-thirds vote of the members,
 certifies the necessity for its immediate passage and every resolution creating a city debt, or granting or authorizing any franchise or right to occupy or use the streets, highways, bridges, or public places for any purpose, shall be presented to the common council in an open meeting, shall be read and spread upon the minutes, and shall then remain on file with the city clerk or public inspection,
 until the next stated meeting of the Common Council and shall be published once before the final vote of the Council on its adoption. B. It further elucidates on A. It says, unless the Mayor and the Common Council, by a two-thirds vote of the members,
 certify the necessity for immediate passage, a proposed ordinance shall be referred prior to its passage to an appropriate committee of the Common Council. If I came off condescending, I apologize. I did not mean to offend any of my colleagues with my statement that we need to read more of the common, more of the charter. However, we cannot, even if we have six votes, without the signature
 of the mayor certify this immediate passage of this ordinance amendment. This has to go to committee. Just a question, the corporation council and then Councilman Treloar, I know you brought that up. So I want you to be able to defend and clarify your position.
 If there are six votes and I understand and did read what Council Member Wingo just read, does that just send it then to the mayor and then the mayor can just not sign the necessities?
 Um, and this is incorporation comes with Karen Gordon. Uh, the passage asked for immediate passage upon an unproven necessity, right? That if both bodies agree that there's a necessity for immediate passage, then you shall vote on it. I see it to mean that both bodies, the two-thirds vote from the Common Council and because it does use the word and,
 the signature at the time of the mayor together gives you the authority to make
 immediate passage or to make a decision, I guess, to approve the item right away. In the past, we've always done it that way and I've read the statute more than once. I've read one council member for a little read and there is a possibility that there is some
 confusion, there could be some confusion, but section B kind of clearly states that they need both parties together in order to have a immediate passage. So that's my reading of it, but as I always say, the council can still make its own decision, but that's my understanding and reading of it. All right, Council Member Farrell. I'm sorry, it was Council Member Bowman first. No, I'm also at Council President.
 Okay. Councilmember Fairlittle? I politely disagree with Ms. Gordon's interpretation of that and feel comfortable that if six of us vote on this today, it's fine. Councilmember Wyatt? Mr. President, this item is not dramatically different than the first one. The intent of the item is the same and what Councilmember Fairlittle brought forth is
 within our ordinance and I believe we need to move on it. We don't need to have another public meeting on this item because we've already had a public meeting. And I think to have another public meeting on the same item makes us feel like we don't know what's going on. We know what our intention is on moving this item and I think we should move forward and I already motioned to second, Mr. President, thank you. Council Member Scanlon. It appears to me we have two lawyers
 who have conflicting views of what we're trying to do here. And we have Karen Gordon as our assistant corporation counsel. I'm not sure that we, again, two lawyers debating this, I think that we should probably hold off on this and make sure that we're doing things the proper way. As assistant corporation counsel mentioned, we've typically done things the way she has referenced. And I find it pretty ironic that now we're,
 With this item, we're talking about not quite another public hearing. Let's not have another public hearing. But in other items, it's we got to have another public hearing, another public hearing, another public hearing. Which one is it? Well, I think if you're referring to the last time we tried to have a public hearing, it was voted not to. Council President, I'm not referring to any in particular. I'm just talking about in general. Okay. Because I think depending on the item, sometimes they move forward and sometimes there's a public hearing.
 I think it's on both. Council Member Buengel. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This item, this amendment is quite different from the first one. A couple of words makes a huge difference.
 If we're not certain of that, Ms. Gordon, do you have a list of the changes or modifications from the previous ordinance amendment to this ordinance amendment? There are some significant changes. That's why it was suggested that this go to committee in the first place. Can you just cite those changes? Clearly, you know what they are because you signed off on the ordinance amendment.
 And while we're waiting for you to get that prepared, just the spirit of this piece of legislation, of this ordinance here. I'm a legislator. I am not an administrator. I am not in this office to enforce laws. I'm here to write laws, to legislate. This ordinance amendment is making us administrators. Why are we engaging in administrative duties? This thing is literally asking us to designate school zones.
 I mean, I'm council member. Yeah, go ahead please. Yeah, so there were a few changes from the original. I think in part one of the changes I think that was important to make was the school's own designation part.
 As we know, the state law designates a school zone under Section 1180C of the New York state law, and the original suggested that the Common Council would be doing that, will be designating the school zones. And so that had to be changed and removed.
 Um, there, the, this one, and also the second one did not have any process even though it requires that the school zone cameras be removed. I don't believe I believe I did suggest that some process be put in for the removal.
 and for the determination as to where and when the cameras would be placed once the common council decided to do so, but those changes were not accepted, so presently I don't think those are in there. And I think also...
 So, Corporation Counsel, real quick, just to further elaborate on what you just stated. So, are you saying that there is a lot of ambiguity in this current ordinance right now, so it could be interpreted any kind of way? I wouldn't really say there are a lot of ambiguity in it. I would say that it does not...
 spell out, you know, a process, but we can always get back to that at some point. So I'm not saying that there's an issue that we need to hold it up because of a process. That's, you know, I'm definitely not saying that it can always be worked out in the future. I think my main concern and one of the main differences between the two were like that, that aspect that clearly was, if we had adopted it or approved it,
 as was, it would be totally in contradiction to the state law. So that was removed and that's a big part of it. And I think there were some changes. Another big part of what we have in front of us, you would see that it's an elongated two or three page document, whereas the initial one was a one page document or probably two page document. And part of the reason for that is whenever we do ordinance amendments, we have to incorporate
 all the changes, whether they're additions or removal, into the original documents. The way the original, the first one was, you would have had two competing ordinance amendments on the books. One that says there is no speed zone camera that there are to be replaced, and one that says that there is an operational speed zone camera program. And so those I think were the two big differences between the two, but as I've always said,
 at the end of the day, the Common Council makes its own decision. Okay. So thank you, Corporation Council. So Mr. Chair, you can record me the negative for these two reasons. First of all, we've not given the community an opportunity to inspect this ordinance as the city charter says. First of all, that's number one. Number two, we are drafting laws that literally put legislators in administrative capacity. For those two reasons, you can record me the negative. Thank you.
 Just a point of there is no public hearing for it. I'm sorry, Corporation Council, except if it was a local law, and then the public hearing would be heard in the mayor's office.
 We do public hearings on both ordinance amendments as well as local laws. Because the local laws have two public hearings, we do one in chambers, and then there must be one in the mayor's office, a second one in order to make it, in order for us to send it to Albany, seeing that we want to both process.
 So, and I just want to ask it a different way. The approval of this would then send it to the mayor's office, but in your interpretation of the law that it has to be agreed upon first for this to be approved. My interpretation of the law is because the statute uses a conjunction. It says, it says,
 and it says, you know, the mayor and the common council. It doesn't say or. To me, it indicates that it requires both parties to be on the same page before we can do an immediate passage of an ordinance amendment. I think that's how we have in the past interpreted it, and that's why we've always done it that way. But if we don't do it this way, regardless 
 We approve it, it will still go to the mayor's office for a signature. So, you know, at the end of the day, the process will still be the same. It's just that according to the charter, it says, and my interpretation is that both needs to be on it before it goes to the mayor's office. But it doesn't say who has to lead that effort, right? No, it doesn't say who has to lead it. So, so it could be from what, and I'll come right to you.
 President it could be that the Common Council could begin the effort. The mayor then if he agrees, agrees, and then there is the necessity. If he does not, then it comes back to us and we send it through the aging process.
 Um, might be the first time we're doing it that way. But most certainly, there's nothing in it that says we can't do it that way. Because the charter does not go into an expansion of the process. It just gives that two basic sentences. But it has to be with, you know, the mayor signature and the Common Council two thirds for it. But as you said, it does not indicate which starts first or which, you know, should come second. One clarification, Mr. Chair.
 clarification on the point. Sir, if this requires both the Common Council's two-thirds vote and the signature of the mayor, wouldn't we need the signature of the mayor before the two-thirds vote? Because after the fact, would you know...
 Then it was still going to come or would it die? No, no, no. I want to know because I don't want the work that went into this. Okay. In all fairness, I don't want the work that went into this to just be for naught because if you have two-thirds for immediate passage and you adopt it for immediate passage and you don't get the signature of the mayor, which clearly it needs, then does it die then?
 This, it could be- You wouldn't die. I believe you could just come back to the Common Council and you'll just do the aging process. And then you would go through it and approve it and then send it back to the mayor for approval, after which if the mayor does not approve it and it comes back vetoed, then the Common Council has the authority to do its two-thirds veto override vote on the matter. Okay. So point of clarification, Mr. Chair. Okay.
 Yes. Okay, thank you, Mr. Chair. So then in effect then, we literally have to wait two more weeks just to send this to committee, then it go through to committee just to pass it anyways. Why not just send it to committee so we don't have to worry about it? What is the difference if this is not going to go into effect until September to pass this immediately?
 It goes into effect in September. I don't understand the urgency. So I just need to know why we're fighting for this to get immediate passage today. And if we don't get it today, it still has to go back to us in two weeks. So that because we won't have a signature. Right. That would be up to the sponsor if he wants to send it along with the other, if there is a two-third vote. So council member is coming?
 Thank you, Council President. As Councilmember Farrelletto nicely put, we have two um, Councilors who are agreeing to respectfully disagree and, um, add to a point made earlier if none, and Councilmember Wingo kind of touched on this as well. This is the point I was going to make. If these changes aren't taking place until September,
 What's the rush in sending it through and let people get their eyes on it a little more, let the public look at it more, and vet it through for the next cycle? I will defer to the sponsor of what he'd like to do with this.
 The public has been dealing with this for the last several months, and they've been agitated, frustrated, and dismayed. I talked to a gentleman just the other day for a whole hour. He's taking care of his mother and his brother that have cancer. He has to pay $200 in tickets.
 We can't continue to go by this. These are real stories. We've asked for other means. We gave an elongated time for this to go into effect, for the administration to put non-punitive measures in place so that people aren't getting tickets, but our children are still safe. We can do this today. Why should we wait when we can do it today? And it gives the administration enough time to put things in place so that, again, as they've said to us,
 They are concerned about child safety, children's safety. The mayor has put 400,000 for safe streets. Let's start putting that money in place and putting those speed humps and the things that I've been asking for in my district in particular for a couple of years.
 I don't think we need to wait. I think we need to put this in place while we can and so that the administration can begin gathering on what they need to do to follow the ordinance and follow the resolutions that we put forth so that if it is about children's safety and it's not about the $50 they were getting per ticket or the money they were getting per ticket, then let's move on this.
 We're the third poorest city in the country. Why are we continuing to look at these opportunities that are impacting people negatively when we can do other things that can do the same thing? And that's something that can happen for 24 hours. You put a speed hump down, you don't take it up when it's one o'clock or two o'clock. The speed hump is there permanently.
 There are other measures that we can put in place, and those are the measures that we're asking, and we're asking for those non-punitive measures to be taken place and taken seriously. And we can do that and give the administration enough time by September 1 to have those things in place in those schools where cameras already exist. Thank you. Was there another hand up? Council Member Eskandar?
 Thank you, Council President. Well, I was in contact with a Mr. O'Sullivan yesterday who lives in my district, who was basically on the verge of tears because now he feels safe enough to walk his children to and from school. So it does, quite frankly, work both ways. And I'm still miffed at the fact that everyone believes this has to be an either or situation.
 The cameras or speed humps, the cameras or markings. I don't know why we can't use them all to compliment one another, because I don't think anyone can honestly argue the fact that people do not correct their behavior when they're fined. I, Council Member Glumbeck referenced it earlier. I've been driving for more than 20 years. I know for a fact I cannot speed in West Seneca, Lackawanna, Cheetah Waldo, Kenmore, Tonawanda, because I will be fined. I will be ticketed. I will be fined.
 And yet, the opposite is not the same here in the City of Buffalo. So I'm sick and tired of hearing that it has to be either or. It's not that situation. We can use all the tools within the toolbox to complement one another. Member Winkle? Thank you, Mr. Chair. We're arguing about punitive measures for people who are breaking the law.
 I don't understand. If we're going to argue for non-punitive measures for people who are breaking the law, why aren't we arguing the same principle on the ATVs, where they're being fined $2,500 and their vehicles are being confiscated, and they have to pay storage fees? That is an
 a huge hardship for people who made that be their own form of transportation. Where is that energy? Where is that energy? But yet we want to give the folks who are breaking the law a break. Why don't we give all the lawbreakers a break? If that's the principle, you're going to argue. In the meantime, let's do the prudent thing. And I'm not saying I'm against the ordinance, but I am against those two things I mentioned earlier.
 which of course makes legislators into many administrators, which is ridiculous. But at the same time, why not send this to committee? Because I have not heard yet
 as to the need and the urgency to approve this today. I have not heard yet because on one minute, in the same breath, we're hearing from folks that this needs to be passed today because people are tired of this. Then the same breath, we're saying, well, I'm not saying, but this council member is saying, that we are going to give the mayor time.
 I'm not particularly sure on what it is. So Mr. Chair, I'm still in the negative on this because I've not heard the answer to any of those questions that I've posed earlier or to Mr. Scanlon's question. It's been noted that you're in the negative, Council Member Galumbo.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I agree with my colleagues, in particular Mr. Scanlon. I don't think it needs to be an either-or. I think that all of the tools, as he said, in the toolbox should be used to encourage and enforce the speeding throughout the city of Buffalo. I also agree with Mr. Wyatt that we do need to do the safe streets, but
 I think it needs to be a combination. And I will vote no simply because I would like to see it go to committee because I think we're going to end up waiting the two to four weeks anyway, regardless of how we vote on it today. So I don't understand why the rush is so important. Thank you. Thank you.
 Just two notes, just so that we all understand what this, if there is a two-thirds vote, that this just bypasses the aging process. Also, I know that in discussion, because we are,
 really in the season of budget, that there was a concern about making sure at least the wishes of the council or the majority of the council are known before the budget package is given to us so that we do have some things that are pretty solid. I'll tell you this, and I think I said this
 over a month ago, at least a month and a half, is I'm the one who said that I didn't think it had to be, again, like Councilmember Scanlon says, an either-or, and almost begged people to work together so that we did not get to this point.
 and that's from both sides. And obviously at this point, we're still far away from working together. I encourage, because I don't think that we serve the public well, and not sitting down and saying, all right, this is where majority of the council is, this is where the administration wants to be, where do we truly work together? Because if we don't,
 and this continues to move with a two-thirds majority, then we could see just more debate on it, but it will still be voted on. So that would be my only reason for saying, not my only, but one of the reasons is I would hope that it would pull people
 on both sides of this issue to a place of saying, we want school safety. We really, really, this council wants school safety. I think that that is important. And especially now during budget, that at least as our corporation council, so I think accurately said in a previous meeting, gives the,
 part of the council. Now, will this not be agreed upon by the administration? I don't know. If it's not, then if it comes back another way, at least there is a discussion out there of what at least a majority of the council's decisions are or desires. Council Member Noah Cousman.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Just to stay completely germane to the item that is before us, I'd like to just express my opinion that to me it's not either or, but it's what comes first and what comes second. And what comes first should be non-punitive streetscape designs and traffic calming measures to slow the streets down by design. And then if the problem still persists to examine other measures moving forward if it is a punitive measure. So I just wanna let you know that that's where my energy lies.
 Any more discussion, any new facts? Council Member Wendell. Just a quick question for Corporation Council. How long does the mayor have to sign this document? Does he have a week, a day, 30 days? How long does he have? If we should decide, if two-thirds of this council should decide to immediately pass this ordinance, how long does the mayor have to sign? Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. I do not know.
 How long he has, I would have to go back into the charter to double check that. Usually, I know we have a 10-day turnaround period, but in this particular situation, it might be different, and so I don't want to assume. I would have to look at it first. So it's possible that the mayor can have this on his desk for as much as 10 days. It's possible. It's possible.
 It wouldn't be safer for us to have this in our hands and just go through the motions and send it to legislation so that we could just not have to worry about including the mayor into this particular process. Is that a question to me? Yes, or Council President. I mean, yeah, I can answer it. I mean, the mayor still would have to weigh in. So whether it was now or if it was after the two weeks, whatever the time frame is, it could still sit on the desk.
 So, yeah, thank you, Mr. President. So my point is it's going to end up waiting one way or the other. And if the sponsor and the two-thirds agree to it, then they're okay with that waiting. Any other discussion? So two, three have been recorded in the negative. Do you all want a roll call? Or do you want me to just... Council Member Scanlon, were you in the negative? I just wanted to say one more thing, Council President. Sure. Yeah. So, yeah.
 The point being made is the urgency of getting this done because people have seen it, the public has seen it, we've debated it, we want to move on it and get it done as quickly as possible. But sending it to the mayor for signature could be the exact opposite. And it sits there, comes back to us in two weeks and
 then if we have to go through our cycle in two weeks, then it's a month we deal with it and nothing gets done, as opposed to just sending it through two weeks and we have it done in two weeks. As you said, hopefully this debate, it seems like some people are coming a little closer together. Perhaps this debate can spill over into conversations with the administration and we could come to a common ground and it could be done in two weeks.
 So that's something I just can't quite reconcile with, but obviously, as always, the majority or two-thirds rule, and then we're going to have a vote. Councilman White, did you want to comment on that?
 After hearing this. Mr. President, we have tried to work with this administration, as you stated, over and over again. We asked for signs to be moved out further. We asked for beacons to be moved out further. We've asked for signage that directs people where the cameras were. And none of that has materialized in over several months.
 I think the time is for us to move on this. I think, again, I'm going to say it over and over again, and I'm going to say it with anything that I'm a part of legislating. When it comes to legislating things for people who are poor, who have already been affected by a pandemic, there's many, many seniors who live in our city who have been affected by fees and fines.
 we have to look at another way. And I think this is a great example to set, to look at doing the same thing, making our schools safe where children are attending, as well as other residents who may be walking the streets. The enforcement times were specific,
 and somewhat confusing. But when you see a speed hump, when you see crosswalks, you see other measures that slow traffic, those are there consistently, day in and day out. So Mr. President, I hope that we can move on this vote. Thank you. All right. If there are no other discussion, we are recording Council Member, well, Council Member Scanlon, where do you want to be recorded? In the negative, please, sir. Council Member Scanlon in the negative. And was there another in the negative?
 Councilmember Golumbak in the negative. So that would be three in the negative for the adoption. Second, and I'm sorry was that an adoption or approval? Leave as approval. I'm looking at 58, I apologize. Leave as approval Mr. President. All right so we have to have a roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbak? No. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? No. Councilmember Wingo? No. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Next slide. Mr. Chair? Councilmember Nookowski? There is, for item, I believe it's in the new agenda, it is item number, one second,
 Item number 58, there is a resolution that Council Member Wingo and myself sponsored on energy. Can I go back to that just to speak on it a little bit? Absolutely. It was our last time. You have the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I was very happy about this resolution because it really is an advancement in energy solutions and the City of Buffalo is taking a stance on it and talking about green energy and what our carbon footprint is on the City of Buffalo.
 For a municipality, 77% of all energy that is consumed for municipalities is buildings. So this is now an energy policy that is funded by grants from NYSERDA. For the city of Buffalo to take inventory of all of our buildings, collect data to see where we can save energy.
 I have a cost savings and also implement green energy solutions. I think that this is a great step forward and I just want to thank my colleague, Council Member Wingo from the Madison District for being on this with me. And I think that there's a lot of good in this policy and there will be more to come. So thank you for the time, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you. And nationally, it was on CNN today, all of the attention that is being given to this issue. So I think for you all to bring this forward is wonderful when we talk about our carbon footprint. I think all of us, most of us are trying to lessen it in some areas, but at least we're paying attention to it. So thank you both for your leadership. All right. There's no other items, announcements from the clerk? No.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, April 20th at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, April 20th at 1 o'clock p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, April 20th at 2 o'clock p.m.
 Special committees committee on police oversight Wednesday, April 21st at 11 o'clock a.m. Council members any announcements for your district?
 Councilmember White. Thank you Mr. President. I want to invite the community to our monthly e-district police meeting. Myself and Councilmember Bowman have been attending regularly. Chief Minza has been hosting. This is a way to get involved in police reform to engage our police. This happens every month and I've made a commitment as well as Councilmember Bowman to
 We participate with Chief Minza every second Wednesday. So this is going to be taking place at 6 p.m. You can see it live on Facebook. If you are a block club leader, you can call either one of our offices and we'll make sure that you're added to the Zoom. But, you know, we talk about police reform. It's not just...
 a pen and paper is really about action and it's about us being involved and engaged so this has been working pretty well for the e-district and so again i invite residents to get involved let us know what the issues are or let's be proactive and looking at suggestions and think ways that we can improve policing and that requires your voice so i would love for people to participate as we look at all the issues nationally regarding police
 We gotta remember we can play a role in changing that narrative and I hope people will participate on this Wednesday at 6 p.m. You can see it on my Facebook page, live on Facebook and I believe on Council Member Bowman's. Thank you, Mr. President. And Council Member Bowman is shaking his head, yes, that you can see it live on his page also. Any other announcements? All right, motion. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, second by Council Member Nowakowski. We stand adjourned.