He's present. Councilmember Wingo? Right. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. In the name of the United States of America, which stands under God, indivisible liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Luke 18.7 reads, And will not God bring about justice for his chosen one to cry out to him day and night? Will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones? We cry out to him today and night. For each of you on the council and for others gathered today, you know what it's like sometimes to be involved in something in a troubling time, and you walk out and you try to put a smile on your face and just go to your next assignment as though nothing had happened. Isaiah was in a moment like that, and in God's presence he said, Woe is me, I'm undone. And today... Council President, I'm a bit undone. I just came from a meeting in which a particular situation was brought up, and the injustice of the situation hit me hard. The injustice of a situation and a person, persons whose lives were affected and impacted, just hit me hard, and I actually teared up as I was thinking about that. I know what it's like for me sometimes as a pastor to leave a funeral and then have to take a call and do something totally different than the grief I just sat through or sorted through. Some of you just think. Well, after what happened, and suddenly injustice had a face. A particular person who was treated unfairly. And for all of us, that just something inside me triggered, and then I stepped into becoming once again chaplain for the conference. Bishop, you know what it's like to step out of the house and then step into a meeting here after just leaving a casket, and some of you the same. But this scripture in Luke 18 caught me because it says that God is waiting for us to cry out about injustice. So would you bow your heads with me today and pray? Father, you know the churning inside me for what was just happening moments ago. and lord i don't think that's all just me i think sometimes there's something inside each of us that rises up and says we're called to make a difference we're called to stand in the gap we're called to deal with injustice lord i pray for each council member as they stand for something that matters stand for something that makes the city better and fairer for every citizen i pray lord things that would block that, things that would keep that from coming, things that would keep that from happening, systems that need to be changed. Lord, I pray for grace, favor, wisdom, courage for each of us to do the right thing. And Lord, not just occasionally, but every time. Set our path, and thank you, Father, that as we cry out to you, that you are the God of justice. And I pray that this city would be a place where that happens more and more. Thank you, Father, now for your powerful presence. We become and bless us as a city, as a people, and especially thee, your leader, in your precious name. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Councilmember Zinni Memorials, Councilmember Franczak, Councilmember Glombach. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to remember Bruce Byer, who passed away in hospice at the age of 70. I remember him well. In 1968, he was arrested in the Universalist church on Helmwood because he was protesting the Vietnam War and he became one of the so-called Buffalo Nine. There were 100 police officers there. There were about 2,000 FBI agents. They arrested them and he became known throughout the entire country because he was one of those activists at that time. thought that the war was immoral, and protested the war. And he also ran away to Canada and then Sweden. And he came back and he went before Judge Curtin. And Judge Curtin basically gave him time to serve. He saw him as a social activist, but he didn't operate technically. He stayed very active in progressive affairs for many, many decades after that. Social rights, human rights, social rights, things of that nature, and he was, he ran a, lived in and he ran a workshop in Fillmore District in Clifton Street for many, many years of his life. So, he was looking forward to it. Thank you, Mr. President. John Kuriash, a young man, only 33 years old, passed away about a week ago. He was very, very active his entire life, young life, at the boys and girls clubs of the North Towns. I remember when he was about 14 or 15 years old, I would call him up and say, John, I need to get something from the computer. And he would get it for me, and he would say that I was lucky to have teenagers as friends. Because here I was, 40 years old, and not having any idea what to do with the new internet and things like that. But he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his extended family at the Boys and Girls Clubs of the North Townsend, myself as well. Council Member Wingo? Thank you Mr. President. I would like to ask the City of Buffalo and the Council to keep in our prayers the family of Mr. Calvin Curtis Hugh T. Cawthorn, who is a native of Buffalo, New York, served his country very well, was very well loved in the City of Buffalo and his community he will be definitely fully missed. He leaves to cherish his sons Calvin and his sisters Marina, Aurelia, and Amelia, his brother Craig, and other friends and family who will sorely miss him as well. Thank you. Councilmember Fontana. Tragedy struck in town gardens of a 12-year-old boy this year. This past week shot in his home. Oliver Dean passed away at too early of an age and today I think it would be fitting honor that this council holds our meeting in honor of all these Buffalo News as well as one of our youngest unfortunately to die of violence. we don't have to be a father to feel the hurt in this one and we all stand tall with the family tall with law enforcement and tall with the youth of the city of buck i was able to councilman what If you would please keep in your prayers my family. My cousin Brenda passed all of a sudden. She was a wonderful wife, sister, grandmother. She had recently, well a couple years ago, moved to Tampa with one of her sons and all of a sudden passed. So please keep my family and their children in your prayers. I know you've been standing. We're about to sit down in a few seconds, but we did attend the funeral, myself and the mayor, of the young man at a mosque. Quite interesting. There was no rage there. There was no hatred there. They talked about peace and keeping the peace. And so we're very honored to be a part of that. Also, a 99-year-old, Emma, Emily Callahan, died in the Ellicott District. She would call me to come have coffee with her and I would go by her house and she was still spry, I guess is the word to use. She called me her godson and she would tell me how to run the district and what I should do and what I shouldn't do. And she still had a green thumb and she's going to be missed in the city of Buffalo. We also mourn the loss of three people, soldiers who died in duty, in active duty. For all of these names that have been called, and even for names that we might not know, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you so much. And we have a special presentation today by Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much. We're joined by young audiences today, and I'd like Mike to please come down. And I'm not going to pronounce your last name, Mike. You can pronounce it once you get down here. Today, we had the good fortune of being at Waterfront Elementary School with Council President Darius Pridgen and representatives from Council Member Chris Scanlon's office, where we had the opportunity to watch the teacher artists perform, and we had an opportunity to meet with all of the children that are going through this after-school program and And I just want to say what a great program it is, the mission that you have to make the arts part of young kids' lives. And see the development in terms of creativity and productivity through the arts. It could be any kind of art, dancing, music, literary, you name it. It was my favorite part was listening to the testimony of the young children how this program had impacted their lives And I wish I wish each council member was there to see it We would become even greater boosters of what what you're doing with regards to the children So thank you so much. We have a Proclamation here, and I don't know if you want to bring any of the artists out that are you gonna perform it somebody gonna perform here Today, oh we have two of the teaching artists well I Oh, okay. Fantastic. So why don't you make your way down? Thank you so much. The board members that were there today, we thank you. The school representatives at Waterfront Elementary School, all the sponsors, all the supporters, all the government agencies that fund Western New York Young Audiences, we thank you. We're very grateful for all the work you do, and I'd like to give you an opportunity to say a few words. Well, thank you very much. My last name is pronounced Weedrick. So I'm Michael Weedrick. I am the executive director of Young Audiences of Western New York, the leader in arts and education, and we do so much work in the city of Buffalo and Erie County and Western New York with amazing teaching artists that go into our schools and provide arts and education programs. And we know art makes learning better, and Waterfront is one of our best schools that we've done programming through all the grades. And this morning was just a great example. They were the youth that were there with their kindergarten, first, and second grade. And they got up in front of us and were like, I really like this program because it taught me how to build a robot. It taught me coding. It taught me how to dance. And it was such a great just to hear from them. Like, you don't want to hear me talk. You want to hear the kids talk. And then we went into the auditorium and did a great performance for all the kids that were in attendance. It's been great being the executive director of this, but I have to thank the staff and all of our teaching artists, you know, who really are the lifeblood of this organization. You know, they're the ones doing the magic, you know, out in the schools and really making an impact on students' lives. So I'd love to invite La Ballet Tuba with the award-winning Robin Hibbert and Allison accompanying her to come down and do a brief performance for us. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm going to ask, excuse me, why don't you stay back? I'm just going to have the staff to please come to the front so we can get a picture. Thank you, the artists. Stay here. Chris, Council President, do you want to get in the picture? We have a proclamation here. I'm not going to read it to you, but I want to present it to Mike. Thank you for all you do on behalf of Young Audient. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 5 from submission and item 78 from resolutions out of order. All right, second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number five out of finance, approving amendment to 1992 finance agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Oh, you want to do the public hearings? Are these the, is this the one we need a public hearing on? Okay, why don't we take that one out of order and open the public hearing? Second by Council Member Fiala. Item number five, approving amendment to 1992 finance agreement. Okay. motion open the public hearing all right is there someone here to speak on this item just state your name for the record uh murray city of buffalo division of water This is an amendment to the financing agreement to include the projects that we're going to be performing in the 2019 capital construction season. And we're going to be selling revenue bonds to support these. And this action is required. The list of projects that we have are for both treatment and distribution just to maintain the sustainability in our system. I don't know if you have any further questions on that. This is more procedural and really... By amending that financing agreement, it allows the bond sale to occur. All right. I have Charlie Matarano with me. I don't know, Charlie, if you want anything to add to that form. So if you have any questions, I'm here to answer those on the specific projects. Anyone else from the public? All right. Council members, any questions? Yes. State your name for the record. My name is Marcia. Is that on? Okay. That's Kathleen Chandler's concerned citizen. It's my understanding that part of this is geared towards the problem of lead poisoning in the city. And I'd just like to speak to that because I think it's an important question for the city of Buffalo that generally doesn't get addressed in public. and particularly the responsibility of the city the water board and Those dealing with it directly its public funds that are going to be used to ensure that we have safe drinking water in our homes and our schools and our buildings and as someone who has dealt with it is very difficult because because generally speaking, the way it's approached is that it belongs to the homeowner to solve the problem. Both this county especially often doesn't even test the water. They just test for lead paint, and then they tell you if you want to get it fixed, it's on you, and if we come out, you have to deal with it. So it makes it all on the homeowner or the individual to solve the problem. And I think it's important, if money is going to be given for this sort of thing, that public testing of the sewage away from the treatment center actually were in the zip codes where the most lead poisoning cases already exist. We know they exist among the children. It's a public health issue, it's not just an individual problem. And funds have to be provided to guarantee that if there is a problem, it can be solved. The water can be solved fairly simply with a filter. But people can't always afford to do that. Can't always afford the plumber, can't always, don't even necessarily know that that's a way to solve it. And I think the city should ensure that a portion of these funds, and together with the county, a portion of funds are set aside to guarantee that where there's a problem of lead poisoning in the water, it be provided to the public as a matter of public health. And so I would like that as a consideration before just automatically approving more public funds to deal with this question, because it is a very serious one. I understand that some issues are being dealt with, but the problem doesn't only exist the in the housing it's also in this we have very old sewage pipes I know they've been lined but according to the plumbers that I deal with and they because they have to flush out the line that goes from the house to the main line there is very likely lead in the main lines not just in the homes and I think that needs to be addressed by the city thank you Hi, Peter Merlo, City of Buffalo Division of Water. First I'd like to state, if anybody has any concern, please call 311. We'll have your water tested. We'll come out and we'll make sure that you are confident. We're very confident with our water supply. There is no lead in our distribution system. They are only in services. We add an orthophosphate, but again, there are funds being allocated in subsequent years and the board is developing a program and we're not simply turning to the homeowners and saying it's your responsibility. We're developing a health-based program to begin a lead service replacement program because we recognize the importance of that and it's about public health. We're in a very good position. Our water quality is excellent, but right now if you have any concerns, please call 311, get your water tested and that will confirm it either way. But again, there are funds being allocated in the next 20 years for lead service line replacement, which is a program that the board is intending to develop and implement. Thank you. Anything else? Anyone else? Council Member Fontana? Just referencing the speaker's comments. We always think about the supply lines on the water Peter the referenced Item today was the sewer lines our sewer lines a lead threat Water comes in the house. It's used it's flushed out the sewer lines Is that what we're picking up a lot of lead or no? In lines those are typically clay tile PVC or What I believe the person was referring to was your led services that come off and serve your houses from the water main. That's what I – we do have those in our system. That's why we – and orthophosphate. That's why we engaged in a testing program to make sure we're actually in reduced monitoring. The board has voluntarily chose to monitor. sites every year because we want to stay ahead of this. And testing is the best way to confirm that. So, again, anybody has any concerns, please call 311. And there's roughly a set-aside of $5 million to do such work in that long-term borrowing procedure? Yes, that is the plan right now as the board is developing that program and how to best implement it. Have you taken any steps in the last week to... bring that to fruition as far as transferring the responsibility from the homeowner to the city on those types of pipes? The board is meeting tomorrow, and my understanding is that's part of the program development. And if there's any changes to that or how that's spent, will the council look at that in the future, or will that just be solely on the water board? At this point, I don't know if I can answer that directly because, again, that program is in development right now, and these are the questions that are being tackled. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Pete, I know we talked at our committee meeting about getting the word out about this program, and I know that this is in an infancy, but are they putting something together where they will be communicating with the public about this process? Yes. We're already starting to communicate in terms of best practices, how to flush a system, how to minimize lead exposure if there is. get your water tested. So we're going to continue to implement that program and I think once it's developed, we're going to look to notify whether it's through our billing system, whether it's through our website, whether it's through public hearings, but we need the board to get the word out because it's something that we're all concerned about. We want to have that confidence in our customers that we're doing the right thing. What's the timetable on doing that? Right now, I would believe the board is implementing this. They're looking to implement this over the next year. I'll talk to Charlie to see if he has anything. thank you charles martirana special counsel for the water board so a few things one every year the water board issues a water quality report it's obligated to do so by federal law and in that report there are details about the water quality program including the lead issues that are being discussed today the city and the water board have a very active lead water testing program and welcomes volunteers to participate in that program It costs nothing to the homeowner. It's certainly available, just as Mr. Merlo said, through the 311 program. And then in addition, the Water Board has public meetings on an ongoing basis. And again, going back to the water quality report, this is made available to all the property owners, the residents of the city on an ongoing basis. MR. Last two things. Number one, where is the meeting communicated to the public? And number two, do you submit a report to the Common Council about the water? I'm sorry, I didn't hear your question. Do you submit the water report that you send to the federal government as a copy that's sent to the Common Council? Yes, it is. And when are the public meetings for the Water Authority? Where is that communicated regarding those meetings? The Water Board, Charles Martyr-Rein again, Council. The Water Board meets typically every second Wednesday morning of the month, and those are public meetings held right here in City Hall. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? All right. Motion to approve. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Council Member Fontana. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Next item. Item number 78. Public hearing to rename a district for police station. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Who has the floor? Thank you, Council President. For a quarter of a century, South Buffalo native and lifelong resident Chief Tom Moran served the residents of the city of Buffalo through a decorated and distinguished career with the Buffalo Police Department, where his hard work, his bravery, and his leadership endeared him to not just his fellow officers, but also to the public. Beginning in 1994, with his appointment to the Buffalo Police Officer, Chief Buffalo Police Department Chief Moran served a number of roles, including... police officer, lieutenant, commander of the underwater recovery team, and ultimately chief of aid district. Throughout his career, the hard work and the bravery that I mentioned were repeatedly recognized. And in particular, they were recognized in 2006 when he received the Edward H. Butler Award for Heroism. During the five years he spent as chief of a district, Chief Moran demonstrated tremendous leadership, earning the appreciation of the residents and his fellow officers that worked alongside of him and for him in his capacity as chief. And he created and fostered an environment of teamwork and collaboration within the district house and within the community. In addition, and even more so than his incredible leadership, his incredible time with the police department and in particular a district his his love of his wife kelly butchkowski and of their daughters ava and lila trumped all of that he was a tremendous father tremendous husband and tremendous friend of people throughout the district and for that reason we're hoping that this council and my colleagues would agree to rename a district after chief tom moran councilmember franzette yes thank you mr chairman as i stated in committee you would never find forget a police officer you'll never find a nicer man as tom moran well of course he was a police officer and you know if anyone ever had the notion that it's hard to approach a police officer because they're intimidated or whatever he was the exact opposite of that he was the most approachable, one of the nicest people you could ever speak to. And he was very, very dedicated to his profession. And notwithstanding, because he was in some of the toughest neighborhoods when he was teamed up, Mr. Fontana mentioned this too, with Officer Reese. He had Reese and Moran were a team, and they were assigned to the east side. And that was, you know, the crack epidemic was certainly in full swing. There was a... tremendous amount of crime of all kinds at that time. And they were assigned there for quite a while, it seemed to me. And they were always very approachable and it didn't harden him or sour him to the public at all or to people or dealing with people because We deal with people, and sometimes it's positive, sometimes it's negative, you know? But a police officer, it's almost always negative. It's always some negative crisis or issue or something that's very stressful, but he always kept... such an even keel and he kept such a nice approachable personality. The job didn't harden him, it made him more of a humanist. So I think it's fully fitting to have this tribute to name the A Precinct after him, and I think it's an honor that's well deserved. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Council Member de Lombet. thank you um i only met officer moran a few times when he was younger i worked with his wife kelly many many years ago when i was an intern here in buffalo city hall um but whenever i would run into him he was always very friendly very approachable um just a good guy and my heart broke for the family you know and i think this is the least uh that we could do you know for his memory and for his legacy right must be very well like councilman fontana thank you and as The men and women of the Buffalo Police Department walk by the name every day to go to work. They'd be well served to serve in the honor of Mr. Moran. Chief Moran served us well. He served the city well, his family well, his friends well, and he's always been missed ever since he's passed on. But if they take his work ethic, his dedication, and just his general abilities on the job, they'll do quite well serving the city of Buffalo. Council members and thank you council president. I remember in 2013 when I first heard word that Tom Moran was going to be appointed chief of a district and Having known him for a number of years prior to that. I can't tell you how excited that I was knowing the person and the police officer and How well he would serve the community and that department and the wonderful thing about this honor is a lot of times us on the call on the council will know of something taking place in the community and Will try and recognize someone but this was being driven by his colleagues and the people in the community And so it's not one of the nine of us grabbing this and trying to grab attention or anything like that This is his colleagues in the community that he represented driving this and so I think it's going to mean that much more to the family And the department so again, I I thank my colleagues for agreeing to support this resolution absolutely hey arthur robinson i'm president of seneca babcock community black club uh chief moran uh what can i say he was a people person he'd come to all the black club meetings with the community officers once a month we had meetings and i think he was a no-nonsense person either if you had a problem in your neighborhood he had people there to solve it he didn't wait till it got out of hand or that he had him there and he was loved by everybody i tell you This honor should be his. Thank you very much. All right. Okay. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. No one is here from his family, right? Okay. All right. Next item. Item number one, DDA amendment for Western New York Veterans Housing Coalition. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number two, submission of monthly report. Okay. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number three, local landmark 75 School Street. Motion to send legislation items three and four. Second by Councilmember Lingo. Item number five, report of sale 447 Berkshire. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number seven, report of sale of 100 Butler. Motion to approve items 6 through 8. Same way, Councilmember Wingo. Item number nine report is so 357 Dewey motion to send the CD items 9 and 10 Second by council member Wingo item number 11 report is so 383 Herman motion to send motion to approve second by council member Montana item number 12 report is sale to 40 Leroy motion to send the CD Taking my customer Wingo item number 13 report is so 134 Moore Street motion to approve items 13 through 17 second by council member what Item number 18, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file items 18 and 19. Second by Council Member Firoletto. Item number 20, fund balance policy. Motion to send the finance to item 20 and 21. Second by Council Member Lumbeck. Item number 22, inter-fund loan BNMC phase. Motion to approve items 22 through 24. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number 25 Moody's 2019 rating report on the city of Buffalo motion to send the finance Second by council member for your level item number 26 changes vote for Allen Street reconstruction motion to approve item 26 through 29 second by council member while item number 30 single source purchase food waste collection service motion to finance second by councilmember Wingo I don't know for 31 a point battalion chief motion to send the civil service second by councilmember Wyatt I had a number 32 full store license 1105 Broadway motion to prove with conditions second by councilmember Wingo item number 33 full store license 2198 South Park motions and legislation I'm a 34 through 36 Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number 37, Restaurant Dance License, 166 Chandler Street. Say it again. I'm sorry, I didn't hear the motion. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 38, Restaurant Dance License, 2178 Seneca Street. Motion to send legislation item 38 and 39. Second by President Proctor. Item number 40, Purchase or Auction, Scrap of Vehicles. Motion to approve items 40 through 41. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 42, appoint Director of Administration and Finance. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Branzac. Item number 43, Fair Housing Report. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item number 44, items returned by Clerk. By mayor, without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 44 through 47. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 48, notice of appointment, temporary, provisional, and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Miscellaneous, item number 49, response to homes that request 182 Marbury. Motion to send to CD. second by councilmember Galumbo item number 50 Buffalo Lee working group law enforcement assisted diversion motion to send police oversight second by councilmember Skinner item number 51 letter of support for Buffalo Niagara Waterkeeper styrofoam packaging motion to send the CD councilmember Fontana item number 52 monthly City Hall incident report motion to receive and file Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 53, Seeker, Nagdek, for sub-29th memo. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Freelon. Item number 54, Open Buffalo Justice and Opportunity Coalition. Motion to send police oversight. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 55, Erie County Clerk's 2018 Annual Report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Belong. Item number 56, New York Immigration Coalition Safe City Fact Sheet. Motion to send police oversight. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 57, letter from attorney Carl Person, job creation in Buffalo. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 58, police advisory board body worn camera policy and program. Motion to send to police oversight items 58 through 60. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 61, used car dealer license 160 Abbott. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item number 62, New York City food service impact study. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 63, Roswell Park Cancer Center water pipe discussion. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item number 64, repairs to sidewalks and curves along Walden Avenue. Motion to send to City. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Petitions. Item number 65, special use 3171, also known as 3173 Maine for tobacco hookah vape shop. Motion to send to Legislation, City Planning Board, items 65 through 69. Second by Councilmember Fairlatte. Motion. Submission list, Civil Service Committee, item number one, Pam Principal Accountant. Motion to approve items one, two, and three. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item number four, Notice of Appointment, Tent Provision All Permanent. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Finance Committee, item number six, E-Payment Solution Vendor. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Thank you. Community Development, item number 7, 179 Sanders, North Buffalo Community Center. Motion to approve items 7, 8, and 9. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 10, Fruitville Advisory Council, 313 Cherry, 884 Virginia, 65 Grape. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 11, Request to Hang Police Remembrance Projects. Ms. Gordon, is this an adopt or an approve? What? Item number 11. Approved. Motion to approve. Thank you. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 12, East Community High School supports banning single-use plastic. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 13, Report of Cell 313, Cherry. Motion to approve 13, 14, and 15. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 16, Concerns Acquiring Properties 1242, 1246, 1252, Sycamore. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franzen. Legislation Committee Item Number 17, Food Store License 290 Kenmore. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Riviera. Item Number 18, Food Store License 366 Perry. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item Number 19, Food Store License 955 Tonawanda. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by Councilmember Golumbik, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like the same conditions that were on the previous store as well, so approve with the previous conditions. On the 955, right? On 955 Tanawanda, yes. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. item number 20 special use 3063 main for hookah establishment and this is a university district motion to deny for cause denied for cost second by council member white who will place the cause on record and right Item number 21, zoning map amendment 175 Louisiana and 96 Kentucky. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 22, special use 1000 Amble for tavern and outdoor dining. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 23, adaptive reuse 888 Delaware. Then I defer to the wishes of the District Council Member, Ms. Rivera. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I've met with residents and the developer, Mr. Paul Kochmeier, with regards to this development. There were some concerns, and many of the concerns were mitigated, but there's one that I want to put on the record, and that is the back carriage house. The developer and the community have agreed that there'll be only one apartment on the first floor and one apartment on the second floor, and I just want that for the record. So that's the only condition that we have. Thank you. The motion is to approve. With conditions. With conditions. With the conditions. State of... by district council member second by councilman item number 24 special use 29 criminal motion to approve second by council member fontana item number 25 special use permit 2637 name for a hookah establishment and this is the maston district motion to deny with cause second by council member wingo who will supply the cause for the record right Item number 26, SDVOB goals for the City of Buffalo. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number 27, local law entry number one, use of internet payment system. There are no objections. Motion to approve items 27, 28, and 29. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 30, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 264, Rental Dwellings Unit Registration. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 31, Linwood Lafayette Urban Development Action Area. I'll defer to the district council member for the purposes of a motion. Thank you, sir. So there was a lot of question on this and a lot of research that went into it. As a matter of fact, I don't think I've ever had a file where I had to send people down to the law school and really look at this. And I'll tell you why I am supporting this today. I'm supporting it based on... Number one, some people have put out there that we're giving a tax break. This item, and I want to be clear, does not give a tax break. It designates an area. For the developer to get a tax break, they must come back to this council with the project. And this project, one of the things about this project that I am pleased with is the affordable housing component. Now, I want to be clear that if the developer had went with 485A, which they probably would have qualified, we would not have the control to be able to include the community benefits agreement, which when we looked at the research back to 97, the reason for this article heavily leaned on minority business – opportunities in the project. The second thing is if we are ever going to change and make Buffalo more inclusive, and when I'm talking about that, I'm talking about economically in certain areas, there are going to probably have to be some benefits at times. This developer would not be able to get any tax break on every property, or the developer would have to come back to this council. And I want to be clear, and I want to be heard loud and clear. The affordable housing component is the only reason that I'm supporting this article at this point for this project. If a developer comes and asks for a market, full market rate, They need to pay for full market rate unless there's a reason we're becoming involved. But this one, from the beginning, I asked Montanti when they came to us, I ask because the people are asking for affordable housing and to see if there's a way that that could work. With Article 16, we do have that oversight and be able to monitor the project. But right now, there is no tax break being given. It's a designation. Now, I just want to say this because where some are concerned about the blight area, The article, section 691 says that the use of such rights and powers to correct such conditions, factors, and characteristics and eliminate, and there's a word there, or prevent the development and spread of deterioration and blight through the clearance, replanning, reconstruction, rehabilitation, conservation, or renewal of such areas. We also did the research to find out how the city acquired the garage, and it was through condemnation of that garage that is in horrible condition right now. And the city didn't have any plans to redo the garage. So to have a project on that site in an area where rents are very high and in the same area, where a developer just built a unit for our seasoned citizens whose rent is rather high, comparatively, but to be able to put people in the neighborhood. Now, I asked the question from Brendan Mahaffey and from Scott, Bill. If the tax break, if the gap in the project, for instance, is $1 million, and these are just numbers I'm making up, and the developer is getting a $3 million tax break, to me that's not fair. This should only be to fill that gap so that the affordable housing. And so what I was told is we could ask for even more affordable housing in that project. And I intend to look at every dime to see and make sure that we are not making a making it just easy for a developer to say, hey, just give me a tax break. I'll just throw it out to the wind. This has a purpose. And at the end of the day, one of my greatest concerns as we see our city grow, is will people be able to live in diverse neighborhoods? Will people be able to live and afford to be able to live? And I'll just state this. I have seen government give away tax incentives to market rate businesses. projects and market rate housing, sometimes 10 years. I know one was out for 10 years, and you heard not a peep. Now when we're talking about affordable housing, Now the question is why do this for a fort? Why do this? At the end of the day, the people who came here from the development over there wanted that dirt moved. I'm happy to say the dirt is starting to be moved and they wanted to see development. And so this Article 16 could be not just used here. I want to see it used. There's some places in Fruitbelt that I want to see this article used. because we want to make sure we use every tool in the toolbox to keep affordable housing. So, Ms. Glombeck, I know you had a question about it, so I wanted to make sure that this was very plain. Council Member Glumman. Council Member Glumman. Thank you. Thank you. I want to thank you and I want to thank Mr. Mahaffey for helping to clarify some of these items. Forty-eight hours ago, I would have been a no vote on this, but getting more of this information and knowing that we're going to get a second chance at voting on this. One of the questions I have, though, is what about any loans or grants that are going to this project as of right now, or will that be the second consideration? component that we will be voting on. Yeah, so this does not, thank you for the question, this does not even grant a tax break. It only opens up the process. It's just designating the area. So if they were giving any grants, if they were giving, that would come, that, that would be that would normally come to this council, it would still normally come to this council. So I just don't want people out there thinking, the council just gave this project without knowing the numbers. No, the council designated an area so that if the developer needs to utilize this article, that they can. Yes, sir. They would still have to come the same way for every project in this area. So this isn't a blanket, we vote today and then the developer just starts doing whatever they still have to come to this council and I'm gonna be clear again I won't vote for any project that there is not a community benefit with the article 16 it's just not gonna happen I've never stated before how I was not pleased with 485 a although this is all state we didn't make up these rules this is from the state And one of the reasons is because there was no community benefit from there. And if this developer had went in that direction, we would have no oversight. And the developer could basically say, I'm just going to go market rate and forget you. And I think we have to do whatever we have to do in order to make that happen. Yeah. I'll be willing to vote for this today, but that's not a guarantee that when the second vote comes around that I will... It's not a guarantee that I would either. It's not a guarantee that anybody on this council will vote for the tax break. Thank you. They would have to make it work. There's no talking for now. Thank you, Mr. Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was here for the meeting, which the public had an opportunity to speak of. They did bring up some legitimate concerns regarding the intent of the legislation, and you've went over the intent. I have not gone over those, the intent of the legislation. They brought the issue of the 60%, which also included the city right-of-way and the garage. So we wanted to dig down on those things, and the attorney for the Bureau was here, He didn't answer all the questions, and then the second meeting we had Brenda Mahaffey here, who really wasn't able to shine too much light on anything because the other attorney was not here. And with regards to the tax abatement, the question I have is if we give the designation – As far as the tax abatements themselves, and I know it was a 20-year, 10-years, and then there was another 10 years at reduced rate, is that automatic by right? For example, if we agreed to this, give them the designation, and it comes time for the tax abatements, at that point, is that something that's negotiable, or is that something that's there by right? Assistant Corporation comes with Karen Gordon. Are you asking whether once the designation has been granted and then they have gone to the state and have received the opportunity to use Article 16, if the 20 percent is going to be, I guess, a direct result of that? Then the answer is yes. So that is a question that we have because you say that we're not going to give a tax abatement today, But if we approve the designation, it goes to the state. If I write, they get that tax abatement, which is 20 years. So it comes back to the tax. I just want to make sure that's clear. So every decision moving forward as it relates to the specific projects... that's going to be taking place in the designated area has to come back for approval by the Common Council. So if let's say they were to put down supermarket or something there. They must come back to the Common Council to get the authority or to have the authority to do so and to get their authority to have what they probably called a pilot which is like a payment in lieu of taxes and that can be for 10 or 20 years depending on the lease arrangement that they have with Tia Montante. So I believe at Every point in the project as we move forward, there will be an opportunity for the common concept to weigh in and to make the ultimate decision as to whether or not the project that comes before them is worthy of that tax abatement. Did that answer? It does. I don't know if simply it'll come before us. The question was, will it come before us in the manner that it's the 10%, the other... Maybe somebody has the answer. Would that be something that... Congressman Escalo? Yeah, thank you. So similar to the 485A where you get the initial years, the exemption off of the... increased amount. You're still paying the amount of taxes should nothing have taken place on the property. In this case, it's my understanding that for the first 10 years, you'll get an exemption on that increased amount. You'll pay the base amount. And then during the second 10 years, the exemption will be decreased in equal... This is the actual language in there. During the last 10 years of the exemption shall be decreased in equal annual or biennial... Sorry, there's a typo here when I wrote it down. During the last 10 years of the exemption, there shall be a decrease in the equal annual or biannual amounts according to the formula established by the governing body at the time it gives its consent to the tax exemption, with the Common Council being the governing body. And also it's... And Scott is on his way down, so I want to make sure... And also, just to follow up on some of the other things that have been said, there's a lot that's been said and written about this item in particular and the use of the Urban Development Action Area. And I've got to say that I'm happy to see that the Council is hopefully going to be moving forward with this today and closer towards the first use of this Article 16 in the time that I've been here. In the past, we've had advocacy groups... Other people in here are ranting and raving. Other elected officials are asking us to not use 485A and other exemptions. And this particular tax exemption, this Article 16, is going to give us so much more control over the things that are going to take place in the surrounding area of these developments with these community benefit agreements. So I'm glad to see that we're moving closer to finally using this. You're totally right. The last budget, I remember making the notes on 485A. Who wasn't? Scott, if you can come down. Thank you. who wasn't pleased with the fact that a business could build a whole building and only put one apartment and never fill it. Never fill it. Never rent it out and get a tax break. So sometimes it boggles my mind when we talk about affordable and trying to keep people in the city of Buffalo who may not be millionaires. And then there's, you know, there's a problem. Now, some of what was brought up totally correct, Councilman Revere. It was I wrote down every concern, every concern and went back and did the work. Scott, if you want to ask that question again, this will do. Scott, we were talking about the designation for the area, if that's what we're voting on here today. But by designating the area, do we by right give up the tax abatements? Is that an automatic once we pass this designation? Does that then trigger by right the tax abatements that we refer to? Scott Billman, General Counsel for the City of Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency. Council Member, no. So each project would then come back to this body with a set of parameters, community benefit packet, and a request, if necessary, for the tax exemption and justification for that project. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, my support certainly would be on a couple of things going forward. Today we can possibly move this along, but going forward, the benefits, the public benefits, and I'm a big proponent, just as you are, many of us, on on the Common Council on Affordable Housing and the percentage, the MI, because we want to truly make it affordable for people that live and want to live in that area that wouldn't normally be able to live in that area. So that's something that my votes going forward would be predicated on those public benefits, and certainly the benefits to the developers themselves. We have to look very carefully because this is taxpayers' money that we're doling out, and we want to make sure there is a true public benefit to the community. And I'll say this, and I'm thinking about the area where I want to see this used in the Fruitbelt. We have a piece of property there that's falling apart. It's been there. Developers move away from it. Let's utilize that in some other areas where we can build up these neighborhoods also, and those neighborhoods where people, again, may not be able to afford to live, that's where I want to see those breaks in those areas also. It's just, to me, only the right thing to do. All right. Anybody else to speak? I see a lot of lights, and I was going by your hands more than anything. Councilman Franz, I think you're good. Yes. Yes. After talking to Mr. Mahaffey yesterday for about 20 minutes, You know, I was inclined, I had a lot of questions about this, but after conversation with him, I will vote for this, the affordable housing component. There's a, the city owns a parking garage that we're going to sell to them. That this is not a tax break of any kind that has never come before us at this point. One of the things, I don't know if Mr. Billman in his research has found out, we have done this very seldomly. this kind of program, this urban development action area. It was indicated to me that we did this in 1997. I don't know if Councilman Fontana might remember, but it was done for a building. It was done for one parcel. Do you remember, Mr. Billman, what that project was? I don't specifically. I think it was one of the structures on Main Street, probably the 600 block. Market Arcade? It may have been. It was the Market Arcade. Market Arcade, was it, Rich? Yeah. So we did it for, well, Rich has a good memory. He's younger. So we voted, he and I, in all likelihood, voted for this in 1997, and it was, you think it, he thinks it's the Market Arcade, and you think, you kind of said the same thing, right? Mr. Billman? scott i i think so that that does make sense it's that time period that makes all that makes all kind of sense because you know the historic structure and you know you're developing it and you know they they say well this area is not a blighted area well i well main street needed to be developed i wouldn't have necessarily called it a blighted area i mean there were things that had to jump start and happen that haven't been happening until the last few years so i think in this instance we have used it once we had to wait 20 one 22 years to do it again but I think in this with this explanation in this area I think it would be appropriate thank you thanks sir customer just one last question there are things that are negotiable the tax abatements are non-negotiable is that correct The way the statute reads, the first 10 years, the full exemption on the improvements. The second 10 years, the tax then incrementally goes back on for those improvements. And I think the language is by annual decrements or buy-in. So you can have the reduction twice a year or once a year. But that part would be good. So that part is negotiable? Yes. That's a good question. Thank you. Because it may not be needed all the way through. Okay. at the same rate and that's that's when you drill down into the numbers any other questions comes from in front of us the cost benefit analysis was there a analysis done of how many units are going to be reflected in the 20 percent it won't be until we they come back because we need to know the numbers yeah we don't know that um i'm just wondering what's the total tax break essentially for the first 10 years as opposed to then how many apartments are we better off charging full taxes on it and doing something for the residents with the tax money we receive as opposed to doing this those are the questions i was told without the tax benefits the project doesn't work so that's another thing that was the affordability so that's what we heard um it's mindful too that this is a non-tax site currently or was when the hospital used the site so we're not really going to negatively affect income to the city because this is all added revenue this hospital didn't pay sales tax i'm pretty sure they were exempt The base evaluation of the property is probably high because we rate the non-profit non-paying parcels high so that it increases our taxable load, which is fine, such as churches and such. Many Catholic churches had high estimates of value. In reality, they weren't worth as much, but they weren't paying, so no one minded. So it seems to be a net win, but I would like to see the numbers as to how many apartments is reflected in 20%. That's important. Are we talking about 10 apartments? Are we talking about 100? Are we talking about 50? It would be nice to know. To give up, to vote on something without knowing the amount of apartments is a bit worrisome, and that's where, if we have a second bite of the apple, I think that's important. Yeah, because we're not voting, again, on the tax break at all. And we will have all of that information. There is a connection, though, between the tax break. seeking that and an understanding that this council very fairly looks upon the affordable housing aspect of this. And if any developer came back and they didn't have that after we do this, it doesn't guarantee anybody, just as Joe said, as Councilman Golombek said, it doesn't mean that anybody on this council would vote for the tax break if it just does not make sense to them. Thank you. All right. Council Member Skam. Council Member Skam. Thank you. Very briefly, I know we're not discussing any particular project or tax incentive right now, but I think Council Member Franczak made a good point talking about the Main Street and it needed a jump start or a kick start back then and I think that's something we need to keep in mind moving forward when if we do start negotiating these projects to keep in mind while there is it is just one particular project we might be talking about but the trickle-down effect that can have and the other the additional development that that can spur is important we need to keep that in mind as well and across Main Street also exactly all right motion motion to approve second by councilmember Fontana and on number 32 full store license 2245 Genesee Street motion to approve second by councilmember Fontana with thank you with conditions oh with conditions no alcohol no tobacco no alcohol no tobacco as per the district councilman resolutions item number 73 waiver her to hurdle alley Street art festival Motion to approve items 70 through 75. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 76, Historic Landmark and Districts for Michigan Avenue. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. All right, and we're going to send a reminder to Legislation on 76 and 77. Second by Council Member White. Item number 79. Home will request for Patrick and Missing service credit motion to adopt item 79 and 80 second my councilmember Wingo Item number 81 budget and personnel amendment junior data control clerk motion to approve second by councilmember Wyatt and our number 82 Commissioner of Deeds motion put that items 82 and 83 saying my councilmember Wyatt who has the floor can we revisit item number 42? which I don't know what 42 administration and finance 22 under the controller number 42 under administration and finance motion motion to visit revisit item number 42 second by councilmember for 11 I know this item was receiving file but the individual who were appointing does not have a city of Buffalo address Okay. I just caught that. So what do we, what can we do with that to make sure that they have a city of Buffalo? So they do have time to move in. Okay. Yeah. It's not mandatory that they have it now. They have so many months. We can get you the number. It's like up to three months. Yeah. Okay. So we can we instead of receiving a file and can we leave this on the table so that we can follow up in three months? Because I want to make certain that that person lives in the city of Buffalo. you can or we can have council staff put it on that list so that we know to come back to it as soon as okay not just leave it hanging yeah is that fine yeah okay so the motion stands thank you mr. chairman motion take item 84 from the table second by council member wing oh and then I get it I'm in the negative okay to take it off the table right me too All right. So two are in the negative to take it off the table. So we're still able to take it off. All right. Let the record reflect that Council Member Franzak, Council Member Glumbeck are in the negative to take it off the table. Item number 84 is submitted resumes for the vacancy for the city controller. All right. We have this item before us with two in the negative, but the majority to move this. And I'll be very honest why we need to move it this week because we have until next Saturday. Council Member Franczak was out of the country last week, so I didn't want to move the item. I'll be out on a mission trip with our young people next week. So I wanted to be here to move this item. And by charter, we have to move it in 90 days. So this item is before us. So we can do a roll call vote on this. You need to have a name and nomination. Anybody want to make a nomination? I would make a nomination for Vanessa Gluszewski. I'll second it. There's a move, a nomination in second. Any other nominations? I can't nominate from here. Motion to close nominations? Second. There was another nomination coming from Wyatt before. motion to nominate Barbara Miller Williams is there a second for the motion to nominate Barbara Miller Williams because I can't second councilmember Scanlon all right now I like to recuse myself from voting all right there's a recusal Richard Fontana Richard a Fontana who was a part of the process is there a second for his recusal second second by councilmember Franczak so councilmember Fontana will not be voting all right Is there a motion? Any other motions? Motion to close? Motion to close. What are the names in nomination? Uh, Ms. Luschefsky and Barbara Miller-Williams. Okay, just a second. All right. Second by Councilmember Wingo to close. All right. Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Barbara Miller-Williams. Councilmember Fontana. Rick Houston. I'm sorry. Councilmember Fronzek. Nemo. That's Latin for no one. Councilmember Guillemot. Councilmember Golombet. Gluszewski. Council President Pridgen. Barbara Miller-Williams. Council Majority Leader Rivera. Barbara Miller-Williams. Councilmember Scanlon. Williams. Councilmember Wingo. Barbara Miller-Williams. And Councilmember Wyatt. Bill Williams. Barbara Miller-Williams. All right, thank you very much. Next item of business. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2019 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service Day. Following civil service, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2019 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2019 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2019 at 2 p.m. Special committees, committee on education, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2019 at 12 p.m. Committee on police oversight, Tuesday, April 30th, 2019 at 10 a.m. Any announcements for your councilman friends? No. Thank you, Mr. President. As I think everybody in western New York and certainly Buffalo know that the Easter season is very big in Broadway, Fillmore, and we'll see you all at the Broadway Market. I always see you there with your family every year and many other people. And a lot of tourists, too, because I go there and I don't recognize a lot of people. So normally I know everybody in there, so I'm glad to see everybody come from all around. And in addition to the, you know, the churches are doing very well to visit the churches and to visit the East Side and certainly the Broadway Market. On Monday, the day after Easter, which is known as Dingus Day, which is April the 22nd, At 5 o'clock, we hope to see everyone at the parade. The parade started with two or three units and eight units and got to be a huge, huge parade of two hours with thousands of people showing up celebrating the day after Easter. Broadway Fillmore on the east side of Buffalo so hope you all come down on five o'clock on Dingus Day and prior to that come and celebrate Easter in the Fillmore district on the east side thank you and just a warning to those who are coming to Broadway market there's some businesses across the street that are booting cars so if you're going to the Broadway market and you're not going to those businesses I would suggest you not park your right I mentioned your resolution to Ed Riley at Channel 7, which was just serendipitous. I didn't even know you put that in because I said that all these should have been a much better neighbor than that. They should not have done that. They wanted to have somebody in the parking lot saying, don't park here unless you're going to shop here. Don't be booting people. And then charging whatever they want to. That was not – they're charging $60 to get that boot off. That was not being a good neighbor to the community. It was sending a bad message. I think your resolution couldn't have been more timely. Right. Just if folk want to park in the Broadway Market, if that first floor is, there's no spots on the second floor, the roof, you can park right on the roof. There's plenty of parking still up there. There's 1,000 parking spaces there. So don't be afraid to go up on the top of the roof. And then you can avoid any kind of unpleasant situation like you just mentioned. Absolutely. Thank you. Council Member White, you had a note? Oh, no breakfast, no lunch, no dinner? Oh, okay. All right. All right. Okay. Motion? Motion. Second by Council Member Firoletto. We adjourn.