5, 4, 3, 2, 1. President Pro Tem Bowman? Present. Councilwoman Everhart? Present. Councilmember Ferraletto? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Present. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of I would ask that you please remain standing as we have today's invocation. I would like to welcome to the floor Pastor Angela Stewart of the Metropolitan United Methodist Church. Let us pray. Father God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you for your many blessings. We ask Lord a special blessing upon the city of Buffalo and all the leaderships. Lord, we ask that you lead and guide them in a mighty way and let them do your will. And Lord, please let them bless the people that they are serving. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Stewart. Councilmembers and memoriams, Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. It's with deep sadness that I know everyone in this room knows the passing of Jalen Griffin, who was 12 when he went missing and would be 16 not too many days coming up. He lived in my district and he was missing since August 2020. And I have a unique interaction because I was a new council member that year and I had a backpack drive at the central terminal, which I have every year, so going up and down the streets in Broadway Fillmore. And I actually met him and his mom when they were hanging out with their mom's friend on the porch on Clark Street. And the mom was very funny and thought that it was great that a council member was there and I was able to say what we will be able to offer. take 30, 40 minutes to chat with them and not so long after that, Jalen went missing. He went to down Memorial Drive to telling his parents that he'd go to a store on the corner of Broadway in Memorial. To tragically and almost horrifically, basically horrifically, was found deceased this weekend. The DA is now ruling it a homicide. While knowing this has occurred in my district for many years, it actually was the community. It was Pastor Tim Newkirk, it was his mother who had previously passed, friends of the family who did not stop the fight to keep looking for him. Who urged the Buffalo Police Department to not make this case cold and to encourage people to produce leads. So that detective, I'd also like to highlight Detective Benz, who was one of the detectives that followed a lead to get to this point. And for all the community members that refused for him to be forgotten, for refused to have his story forgotten, and ultimately the culmination of all that effort led to where we are today in the discovery of him. And so I speak on the behalf of my district and arguably part of the city of Buffalo that wants to find who is responsible for this heinous murder. And I think that oftentimes it's easy to live in a world with rose colored glasses. There are monsters that live among us. who murder a 12 year old and take them from their home. The most heinous crimes that you can imagine. And it just brings up and highlights the sincerity of what we deal with on a daily basis in the world. The second I would like to, who I know there will be a few other colleagues who will join in, is Yuri Hirshtishin. And so Yuri was a big person in my district when caring for the central terminal. And he was a very modest man. He did not want anything to be about him. He did everything from beautification projects to was the executive director that held the central terminal board together to make sure that it wasn't demolished so that it can now see light of redevelopment as of we are today. He was a giant, but his actions made him a giant, not his personality. And so there are many beautification projects that I know that wouldn't have happened in my district without him. And the last time I saw Yuri, he said, look, I'm terminally ill and I need to see X, Y, and Z done before I pass. And we had kind of an intimate moment where we talked to each other. I said, well, God bless you, Yuri. And he said, no, Slava Ukraine, because he was a very, very proud Ukrainian who helped lead efforts and sending relief over there and making sure that those that immigrated here found safe housing. So Slava Ukraine, Yuri. Council Member Glombek. Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, want to remember Yuri Roshishin. He was an amazing man because of the number of things that he was involved with, literally in every single part of the city of Buffalo and probably the county as well. I was fortunate to see him, we did a little brunch about two weeks before he passed away at the Ukrainian American Civic Association on Military Road in the North District and He was a little grumpy because he didn't like and anybody that knew your he would understand this he was grumpy because he didn't want to be the center of attention and and it was nice to see him he used to stop by on saturday nights at the croatian club until he got sick and literally he'd have a coca-cola one coca-cola we talked because he said he had a long ride home and he'd give me updates on what was going in the north district he's going to be very very sorely missed by many people in so many different communities but as my colleague mitch said especially from the ukrainian american organizations Also we lost Nancy Bamchick, was a former Black Rock woman. I was friends with her son David years ago. Haven't seen him as much since he got married, but she's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. John Vogel from All Saints Church. passed away about a week ago after a long illness. I would see him at mass there periodically on Sunday mornings and he would give me a, always, I'm good, everything's good. I think he was in his 80s and he would say, I'm 87, I'm good. No matter what happens, I'm good. But he's going to be very sorely missed by his wife and his family as well. Leah Elizabeth Pichetti would show up at my block clubs on George Washington Park. She is the mother of Dave Pichetti, who's the block club president. She too had a long illness and she passed away over the past week. And she's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends. And last but certainly not least. It was my friend Ron, also known as Mountain Man Maida. If you would have run into him in a dark alley or a bar, you would have been frightened because he was a big man. He had long hair, he had a big beard, he had a A cowboy hat that had three cobras skulls on it and you would be like, my gosh, this guy is frightening. Gentle giant, big Ben, just a wonderful man. He made it to his 80th birthday and he passed away. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his son and two daughters, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to join my colleagues in remembering Yuri. I had great experiences with Yuri in the community. I know he worked for the county for years, and he was always helpful. I had to call him about a couple things with constituents. Always willing to lend a hand and a great community servant. And also Judy Weber from the Lovejoy neighborhood. She was a great leader in our community. and Judy was actually the president of the East Lovejoy Coalition and neighbors for many years. a great leader who I actually succeeded her. I was the next president at Block Club and she was that kind of person who always checked in on you and made sure things were going okay and at the wake this Saturday. So many stories about really how much she did similar to others. She wasn't the one that always wanted the accolades, but she really did help our Lovejoy community and she'll be sorely missed. I would ask if we please keep in our thoughts Mr. Wilbur Fulton who passed away this week. Wilbur was a lifelong South Buffalo resident and a Marine Corps veteran. He's the devoted husband of Beth, proud father to four Buffalo firefighters. William, Ray, Billy, and Danny, and daughters Sheila and Shelly, and grandfather of 13. If you knew Wilbur at all, you would be blown away by his incredible ability to impersonate people. And just his incredible musical talent, and just being an all around wonderful man and funny man, and he's going to be greatly missed by his family and friends. I would also ask that we keep in our thoughts any members of our first responder community or armed services who may have lost their lives since our last meeting in service. In particular, two members of the Syracuse law enforcement community, Syracuse police officer, Michael Jensen and Onondaga Sheriff's Office Lieutenant Michael Housak were killed late Sunday evening during a shootout. So our prayers go out to their families, their friends, and the entire Syracuse community. So for those who were mentioned here today, and maybe some we didn't mention but are thinking of, I ask that we take a moment of silence. We have a few presentations before the meeting today. I'd like to start with welcoming President Pro Tem Bowman to the podium. Thank you so much. Arthur Robinson has served the Seneca Babcock Community Association for over 25 years, probably closer to 30 years. And anybody that knows Art knows that he gets things done and he has served this community so well, this block club well. He's done so many things over the years that it's hard to name everything. Art was a housing court liaison. He served on countless boards. He's affectionately known here as the council, as the 10th council member, because he attends our meetings and our committee meetings regularly. And Art has... the CPC, the capital budget, I said housing court liaison, board of block clubs. As someone that has taken an interest in government, taken interest in their city, and he has left a lasting impact. And I also want to thank his wife, Roberta, because she allows us and lends us to the city. And she also makes a wonderful chili at the block clubs. So, you know, we really appreciate his wife. I just want to read a couple of whereases. Arthur R Robinson had a prolific tenure as the Seneca Babcock Block Club President, repeatedly exemplifying his steadfast dedication and unwavering service to his community. For over 30 years, ART has been a pillar of support and guidance for residents, readily offering assistance with a wide range of issues from snow and grass removal to housing concerns. ART has always acted as a liaison between the residents and city hall, introducing beneficial programs and facilitating neighborhood cleanups with unparalleled dedication and enthusiasm. Council Member Nowakowski, I'll let you come up and say a couple words. Thank you, President Pro Tempso. Those that know Art Robinson, love Art Robinson, and I met him when the Fillmore District had one part of Seneca Babcock and the Lovejoy District had the other. So he held me accountable and said, no, no, no, this is on your side of Seneca Babcock. Don't just run down to Fillmore or to Lovejoy. But in the world, people Oftentimes like to criticize and complain and they tell you all the things that they want to see done and not do anything. Art spent his 25 years doing something and being a part of the solution. And that's what his legacy to me will always be and the residents that I serve and represent. And really when you look back after 25 years and you see everything that community activists and community members do, Another part of Art's legacy will be really one of the golden rules of life is he's leaving the block club and the community better than once he found it. Job well done, Art. You know, it's funny. 25 years, I don't even know where it went. I mean, it's gone by so fast. I put in 40,000 community hours, over 20 years in housing court, 20 years at the board of block clubs, over 50 boards I've been on. with the city and other organizations and that. It's just been totally amazing. The only thing I can say is, I hope others will follow me and do the same. If everybody gave just one hour a month, my gosh, look at how beautiful our city would be. And I want to thank Debbie Lombardo, Doreen McLean, Brian, you've always been there for me, Brian Polarski. I mean, these people worked with me, Jack Wagner's up there. To get things done. It started out weird. It started out with a protest march against a company that wanted to put concrete crushing in our neighborhood. I never wanted to be president of the block over that, but it just seemed I got thrown into it and just kept into it. And it took 15 years, but we finally stopped the company. I don't give up. Mark Schroeder used to call me the bulldog. He says, when you get a hold of something, you don't let go of it. And I said, that's how you gotta be nowadays. But I wanna thank you all so much for this, and please keep it going. Thank you. Next we have a presentation from Councilwoman Everhart. So President, hello everyone. Hi, are you all awake? I like a little noise. So today I have a unique honor, not really unique, but a little unique. When I was asked to give this presentation, as we all know, this is Autism Awareness Month. And so it made me smile knowing that I would be the one giving this proclamation because my son Zaire is on the autism spectrum. And so I spent many years educating myself around autism and making sure that he was getting the necessary things that he needed in school so he could be successful. Zaire had a very hard time starting out in school and I remember the teachers would call me and they're like, he's having temper tantrums and I would be like whose kid are you talking about? Because my son was never a kid that acted out. He was always quiet and and so that started our road to figuring out that Zaire has Asperger's syndrome, which is on the spectrum of autism. And I came across many, many amazing organizations in the city of Buffalo that provided my son with everything that he needed so that way he could be successful. And he ended up at city honors and excelled in academics, but that was because of the advocacy of these different groups. And so today I have the absolute honor of bringing down the members of Buffalo Autism Project. And so I'm going to read a little bit of this before I pass it over to these two beautiful ladies. So whereas the Buffalo Common Council acknowledges the vital contributions of organizations dedicated to supporting individuals and families affected by autism spectrum disorder, Whereas the Buffalo Autism Project, a 501c3 nonprofit organization founded in 2017, has been a beacon of hope and support for the Western New York community by providing an abundance of quality information resources and events surrounding best practices on ASD. The Buffalo Autism Project's mission is to increase hope, awareness, and acceptance of ASD striving to empower individuals and families with the knowledge and tools needed to navigate the challenges with ASD. Now, therefore, let it be proclaimed by the City of Buffalo Common Council on behalf of all of its citizens that we hereby honor and commend the Buffalo Autism Project for its unwavering commitment, to providing quality information, resources, and events to increase hope, awareness, and acceptance of autism spectrum disorder in the West New York community. Thank you, ladies. So I think you have one more question. Yes, you do. Come on. Sorry we didn't dress the part today. We dressed as if we were going to one of our events with our kiddos. So we're here in jeans, but Laura is one of the co-founders as well as myself, Teresa. And we are wildly honored to be here today in front of you to accept this. We have spent the last several years working with families in the community to spread hope, awareness, and acceptance of autism. And we appreciate you recognizing us here today, so thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks so much. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, everyone. That's better. I wonder if I could have Dave and Frank come on down for a moment. As elected officials, we are often working with, collaborating with the men and women of organized labor in this community. And I don't think their value or their importance in our community can be overstated. These are the men and women that build this community. literally and metaphorically build this community. And when there is a threat to their livelihood, a threat to their jobs, a threat to their well-being, it is a threat to this community. And earlier this year, the men and women of organized labor were being threatened, in particular the members of the National Association of Letter Carriers and the American Postal Workers Union. When the United States Postal Service was discussing potentially closing down the William Street Processing Center. As a community, we banded together and said no you're not. You're not going to close this center. You're not taking these jobs out of this community. And while we banded together as a community, there were two men in particular that led that fight, and they're standing up here with me today. David Groskopp, the president of the National Association of Letter Carriers, and Frank Reseteritz, the president of the American Postal Workers Union. As I mentioned, when there's a threat to the men and women of our local labor community, there's a threat to this community as a whole. And I want to thank the two gentlemen that are up here with me today for their tireless work on a daily basis on behalf of the men and women of organized labor. But in particular, over the past couple of months that were very difficult, fighting against the United States Postal Service, the federal government, Fighting against the federal government to tell them that you are not closing down this processing center. You are not taking these good paying jobs out of this community. You are not going to negatively impact the lives of the men and women of this community or this community as a whole. So I wanted to thank David, I wanted to thank Frank for coming in today. And wish you all the best in your continued efforts on behalf of the men and women of organized labor. And welcome you both to say something if you'd like. So Frank, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's a classic example of. A community effort to put an end to something that's an injustice. And from the political leadership help we received, to the postal workers, to the area unions, the AFL-CIO, and mainly the public. The public who did not want to see their mail delayed. And special thanks is to every one of you. I remember who was on the picket lines, I remember who was at the press conference, I remember everybody. And the Buffalo Common Council has been with us from the start on this issue, literally from the start. And they were there at our press conference across the street from the post office. They were there at the informational picket right in front of the post office. They were there at the public meeting. As a matter of fact, the sign you made up for the press conference kind of stole it after the event. It's pasted on our office door. It gets a lot of traffic all day long. It's got the seal on it. It gives you guys a lot of recognition. But I want to thank you all for supporting us. I feel humbled right now, don't you Dave? Absolutely. Working with this guy was a great guy to work with first of all, I should have mentioned his name first. But it's a humbling experience just standing up here of how you backed us right from the beginning, it's humbling. And when you're humbled in life, you never forget that experience. We're not going to forget it. Thanks a lot. Are you going to say something? Sure, I thought you were going to walk out. That's okay. No, no, Frank said a lot here, it's absolutely humbling. When we were putting this thing together, we attacked this a little bit differently. Normally, obviously, we're federal employees and those are the first representatives that we go to. Again, we're from Western New York to circle the wagons, right? But we had a major problem that the guy that normally helps us do this, Brian Higgins, had retired. I was very nervous putting this thing together because the guy that's the heavyweight champ is not in our corner anymore. So I'm thinking, with Frank, what are we going to do here, right? So in my head I'm going, Everybody gets the mail, right? Why does this have to be a federal issue? So at that point, because it's not normally how we fight these issues, I said to myself, we're getting everybody involved. We're getting the state involved. We're getting the local government involved. We're getting business folks involved. We're getting business mailers involved. We're getting everybody involved. And that's exactly what we did here. And I spent long nights, 6 in the morning, 10 o'clock at night, making lots of phone calls to line these folks up for the public meeting, for the public picket, and to get that survey filled out. There's a bunch of people I want to thank. First of all, again, I'd like to thank Buffalo Common Council President, Mr. Scanlon, for these proclamations, Pro Tempio President, Bauman, Again, you guys got your yin and your yang over here whether you know it or not. You got Fillmore District Member Mitch Too Tall, Nowakowski. And right next to him, obviously is Mastin District Councilwoman Zanita Too Short, right? It's absolutely perfect, right? They were, like Frank said, they were at our press conference. They were on that line. They were great. And I thank them immensely. Same thing, Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. Byron Brown showed up at our public meeting. And again, I don't think he got the ability to speak, but it didn't matter. What mattered was he was there. We saw that. Again, all of you on the Common Council, right? Mitch introduces the Common Council resolution in support of the USPS Buffalo PNDC to stay on William Street. Again Mitch, we thank you for doing that. We thank all of you for signing on to that. It means the world to us. Labor is a community. I say this all the time. The community is labor. I tell Peter this all the time sometimes when we're talking internally about politics and things, and we all might not agree on things. But what I tell him and I tell everybody is listen, sometimes labor's got to put its agenda aside for the betterment of the community. If that means we got to take one on the chin as far as labor goes so that community survives and thrives, that's exactly what we're going to do. So again, Buffalo and Western New York, we thank the community immensely for everything you did. This guy next to me, right? This guy's been doing this forever. How long, Frank? 44. At 44 years, Frank's been doing this. I'm the short timer here, I only got like 32. Okay, right? So again, my sister unions were under attack, whether that was the APWU Buffalo Local and the National Postal and Mail Handler Union 309. Frank's the lead on this thing, Frank's the architect, my job, I always say this, we're the muscle. The letter carriers were going to come in and we were going to protect our fellow sister unions in this instance. And that's exactly what we did. So again, I'd like to thank Frank and all his leadership and everything that his crew did to get this thing up and going and allowing us to assist him in making this a successful venture. I'd also like to thank, again, the National Postal Mail Handler Union, 309 out of Buffalo. We also have tonight here with us, or this afternoon here with us, our fearless Western New York Area Labor Federation President, Peter DeJesus. We also have President Emeritus Richard Lipsitz, the field coordinator from the Alf Austin Morgan, this guy does an incredible job getting the word out. And project manager Lily Corrales. The Alf has 140 affiliates, 145,000 active and retired union members. And Peter got that call out there and a lot of people responded to this and we're forever thankful for that. Last but not least, I'd like to thank my executive board, all the men and women that help me out on a daily basis, Executive Vice President Mike Levering, who's here with me, my Vice President Renee Bogan, my Secretary-Treasurer Kim Fitzgerald, my Assistant Secretary-Treasurer Tom Rybecki, who's here in the blue shirt. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, Tom just retired with 36 years as a letter carrier in the United States Postal Service. Thank you. Also like to thank my sergeant in arms, Zeb Robson, he's here, my insurance rep, Judy Kirsten, my director of retirees, Ken Hankin, and my five trustees, Doug Dittando, Mike Miskell, Jamie Jablonski, Colleen Kruiser, Andrew Harrison, and last but not least, my editor, Jessica McGinnis. Again, total team effort, Western New York, all the way from the top, all the way from the bottom. This is what happens when everybody puts all the other stuff aside and moves in one direction as a whole. We do this very well in Buffalo. I know whatever politically we got all our problems right, but we put those things aside when the community's at need. This is a perfect example of that. Again, thank each and every one of you. So I have a proclamation for David and for Frank, for each of them, but I just wanted to read the final resolve. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed that the Buffalo Common Council commend and recognize David Groskopp Jr. and Frank Rezitaritz for their exceptional leadership on waiver and dedication and successful advocacy in the fight to keep the United States Postal Service William Street location open. safeguarding their livelihoods of postal workers and preserving a crucial community institution for a generation to come. Gentlemen, thank you again. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. On a motion by Majority Leader Leah Halton Pope, seconded by Councilwoman Zineta Everhart, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 2nd, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting. If you haven't had a chance to review any of the late files, clerk from the top please. Item number one, name and baseball diamonds as so shown park, Don Morris Fields as so shown park. Motion to receive and file items one through three. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Able number four, 197 to a one Brinkman and tool for 208 to 10 Subner for DDA extension. Motion to send items four and five to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Able number six, planning board findings for March 25th, 2024 meeting. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number seven, enter fund loan request for federal aid local project agreements. Motion to approve items seven and eight. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number nine, permission to accept and enter into agreements for Ralph Wilson Park Conservancy. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number ten, permission to enter into First Amendment to GOC sub grant agreement. Motion to approve items 10 through and including 13. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 14, notice of status change, water treatment supervisor. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 15, report of bids, guard security for City of Buffalo pools. Motion to approve items 15 through and including 18. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 19, notice of appointment for supervisor street sanitation. Motion to send items 19 through and including 23 to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Tem Pullman. Item number 24, food store license 175 Wadden. Motion to approve items 24 and 25. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 26, property manager license. Motion to approve items 26 through and including 29. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 30, ARP subrecipient agreement. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 31, Bureaucrat Stabilization and Remediation Funds Amendment. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 32, Permission to Accept Oath B.I. Sediment Funds. Motion to approve items 32 through and including 35. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 36, BASA Board Attendance. Motion to receive and file items 36 through and including 38. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item 39, Notice of Appointment for Labor 2. Motion to send this civil service. Seconded by President Pro Tempulman. Item number 40, Notice of Appointment, Council Intern 3. Motion to adopt items 40 and 41. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 42, by... Pedestrian Advisory Board memorialize the New York State legislation to pass safe streets. Motion to send items 42 through 44 to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 45, Seeker Negative Declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Petitions item number 46, Special Use 61 Manchester. Motion to send items 46 through 50 to ledge and city planning board. Seconded by council member Nowakowski. Submission list, civil service, item number one, COA for senior housing policy specialist. Motion to receive and file items one and two. Seconded by council member Ferraletto. Finance, item number three, cash flow report for February 2024. Motion is to receive and file items number three. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Community Development, item number four, bicycle pedestrian advisory board sidewalks no removal resolution. Motion to receive and file items four and five. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Legislation, item number six, response to resolution 24-149. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council President Pro Temp-Volman. Item number seven, mobile food truck. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number eight, property manager license. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number nine, ordinance amendment chapter 154, fair housing. Motion to approve nine and ten. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 11, special use 40, Manchester Place. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 12, special use 492, Rhode Island. Motion to approve items 12 through 17 with conditions on 12 and 16. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Rivera- For the record, I want to read out the conditions to the use permit. The conditions will be there shall be no bar on patio. There shall be no music on the patio. Use of patio should be restricted to customers served by wait staff only. Patio capacity shall be limited to applicable codes. The petitioner shall place signs to be conspicuously posted on the patio which should read, please be respectful of residential neighbors. Business use of patio shall terminate the following times each day and not to resume until normal business hours the next day. 9 PM from Sunday through Wednesday. 10 PM on Thursday, 11 PM on Fridays and Saturdays. And just for the record, that's on item number 12? Pardon me? That's item number 12? That is- 492 Rhode Island? Correct. Just for the record. Yes. Okay. Item number 18, Bash, Buffalo Affordable Safe Housing. Motion to receive and file items 18 through 20. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Resolutions, item number 51, fee waiver pursue peace memorial walk. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Header number 52, resolution supporting New York State enacting a ban on menthol flavored cigarettes. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Golombek and Council Member Farrell-Leddo is in the negative. Item number 53, trailblazing sign for Sexton, Dennis, Sherfield, King, Sr. Motion to approve items 53 through and including 55. Seconded by Councilmember Glumberg. Item number 56, ordinance amendment chapter 414, special events. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 57, Castro Family Picnic Fee Waiver. Motion to approve items 57 through 59. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 60, Create Municipal Code Violations Bureau. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmembers, I think we're all very familiar with housing court. I think we've all spent plenty of time there. Unfortunately, a lot of times we're there for the same property repeatedly. There's a serious log jam at Housing Court and it's kind of wreaking havoc on our neighborhoods. We have properties that are being written for Housing Court and languishing there for several years. While they continue to deteriorate and create blight within our communities. What I'd like to do is look at establishing a municipal code violations bureau. There are some other cities that do it. Not many cities in the state of New York actually have a housing court. We are one of the very few that actually have it. At our disposal, we do have a division of administrative adjudication. A few years ago, we changed the way we adjudicate traffic tickets in the city of Buffalo. We now do it internally as well. Far too often, there's a number of issues that can be created by housing court. You have properties that are there for month after month, year after year. They create continued blight within our communities. In addition to that, if you are a well-meaning, well-intentioned property owner and you're written for housing court, it's very stressful. And you go to court then, and it may be delayed, you're back again, it can create a tremendous amount of stress on you. Then there are the unscrupulous property owners who use it as a tool. They know they're, they'll say hey, go ahead, write my property for court. I know it's going to be there for a long time. I can sit there forever, I might not show up to court, this and that. Nothing quite frankly happens most of the time. So what I want to do is move things internally. Hopefully we can adjudicate things faster. And ultimately the goal here is compliance. You want properties in compliance, make sure they're not creating blight in our community. But more important than that, they are healthy and they are safe. Health and safety has to be paramount when we're doing these things. It's the most important thing when we're inspecting these properties, writing for court. So I want to thank my council colleagues for supporting this resolution. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you Mr. President, and if I'm not already a sponsor, I would like, with your permission, to be added onto it. As you know, over the course of five years of being on the council, the conditions of properties in my district have been probably the leading concern. As I walk in my district, I go to block clubs, I'm seen in the neighborhoods, I'm seen in public. It always goes down to slumlords that are leaving their properties in deteriorated conditions, creating health and safety concerns. And so I am not the council member when some people say they think that inspections are on their back or this and that. It's dignity, it's making sure you're taking care of your property and making sure that you're not letting your neighbors or people live in substandard housing conditions. And when you go into housing court, it's sometimes the most demoralizing place to go because you know that there could be LLCs in my district that own 50 properties. That are charging $900 to maybe $1,200 a month in rent to live in structures where you need bowls to collect the water. And we're not even talking about lead. Fire hazards, ingress and egress, serious concerns that we would now allow anyone to live in. So if we're going to talk about rebuilding the city of Buffalo and we're talking about getting new infill housing, we need to talk about the housing that we already have. And so this, as you know, is you brought up a good point, is that, because I was a staffer in City Hall for many years and worked many times when I worked for the Niagara office was to come up with payment plans for people that find themselves in arrears and the law department at all times always work with those constituents to make sure that they're not penalized. And to make sure that they're connected to resources and that folks that are really trying to wholeheartedly fix their properties can do that. But there is a significant amount of people that are exploiting our housing stock in the city of Buffalo. In my district, I don't get away with having a festival or letting people come in and speak. I actually have to do something and hold people accountable for the neighborhoods that I represent and leave in despair. So I'm happy to see this and to explore this. Oftentimes when I was looking at what was before the body today, there's another section that I believe that we also have to enforce too. And that's making sure that when we adjudicate this, if people are not paying their fines or their fees, that it's attracted to tax so that they ultimately have to pay the piper for leaving people in despair and leaving our neighborhoods blighted. Thank you, Mr. President. President Potempo. Thank you, Mr. President. I too would like to be added if I'm not on this already. And I spend a lot of time in housing court. As my colleagues do, and frankly, attorneys and slumlords have figured out ways to delay, install, and that's at the detriment of our residents and our neighbors as we're left with the blight in these houses. So I'm willing to explore anything that will help us be able to track down property owners who refuse to have good quality of life for the residents in our city. So thank you for putting this forward. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Council President. I'd like to be added as well. I've been in housing court on one particular case for 12 years. It was a building that belonged to a doctor who had the wherewithal to fix his property, but he also had the resources to try to wear us down in housing court. Delays after delays, hearing after hearing. 12 years until the gentleman finally had a breakdown because we didn't let up on him. He ended up selling the building. Today the building is used. It's an office for an assembly member, it's lofts, it's stores. But it took 12 years to do that and we have similar cases where we've been in court and our staff, including Mitch who used to attend court cases for me, my staff who are currently attending court cases. Certainly we have to look and work with courts, but we should be working with the administrative judge to make sure that they deal with this. This is something that's not sustainable. We have an old housing stock in the city of Buffalo And there are, like you mentioned, unscrupulous landlords, speculators who invest in properties and LLCs. And you spend so much time, and by the time you're finished with one LLC, they'll switch it over to another LLC. And we're always in court. We find them, and just before we find them, they switch over to another LLC. So there are just a lot of loopholes in place. But I think the courts could probably do a better job of moving these cases off their dockets. They shouldn't be in court for 10 years, 12 years. So we have to bring it to their attention that this is not good for, it's not good for the neighborhood, it's not good for the health and well being of people that live in those properties. So I agree, I'd like to be added to that as well, thank you. Yeah, and I think you bring up a good point. You've got a property that's in housing court for 12 years. So is that 50, 100 times it was before the housing court? So you've got lawyers from the city over there, inspectors from the city over there each time. It's an incredible financial burden on us as well. Council Member Glombeck. I'd like to be added as well, please. Add Council Member Glombeck and Council Member Ferletto and Council Member Wyatt as well. Majority Leader Halton Pope and Councilwoman Everhart. Everybody. Item number 61, direct the law department to draft an ordinance amendment at a New York State property maintenance. Motion to adopt and send the remaining to lead. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. This is a resolution just asking the law department to update Chapter 137. There are a number of... violations within the New York State Property Maintenance Code that our inspectors can't currently go out and write a violation for. And I'm talking things that are directly related to health and safety. Smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, emergency egress, things of this nature. So we're asking that Chapter 137 be updated to reflect all of the codes that are, or the standards and the violations that are in the New York State Property Maintenance Code. Item number 62 have been withdrawn. Item 63, fee waiver for South Buffalo Farmer's Market. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 64, ordinance amendment chapter 165-45, journeyman electricians. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 65, request the City of Buffalo law department to update on collection of unpaid housing code. Motion to adopt and send the remaining to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. This resolution is asking the law department to come in and update us on the use of New York State Real Property Tax Law 905. In 2014, Councilmember Bowman's predecessor, Rich Fontana and I, Councilmember Fontana and I initiated legislation here looking to attach fines and fees written through our inspectors that could be attached to people's tax rolls because they were not paying. Fines were going unpaid. So after several legislative sessions in Albany, we were able to get it passed, thanks to our local delegation. And this is just asking for an update, how effective it's been, how often it's been used, and quite frankly, if there's any updates that need to be made to it, so thank you. Item number 66, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Gombach. Item number 67, name and baseball, Diamonds, as social park, Don Morris Fields, as social park. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Mr. President, if we could revisit items 24 and 25 under permits and inspection. Motion to revisit items 24 and 25, seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. And then motion to send. Items 24 and 25 to legislation. Seconded by Council President Pro Temp-Bowman. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on Education will be Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024 at 11 AM. Committee on Legislation will be Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on Community Development will be Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members, announcements for your districts. Council member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to, can we go back to number 67? Motion to revisit item number 67, seconded by Council Member Golombek. I just want to thank my colleague Councilmember Ferralotto for being thoughtful on doing this recognition for Don Morris. Don founded Shoshone Baseball in 1957 and He's branded for 30 years. He also coached, and he even coached Councilman Perfero Leto. But it's unfortunate that he passed and we weren't able to acknowledge him before he passed. He done a great job for North Buffalo baseball and I really wish we could have gave him his flowers while he was here. However, the diamonds at Shoshone will have his name. And I think that's still a recognition that his family will appreciate for his laboring in that vineyard for many, many years. And the young people who are affected because of his work. And so I thank my colleague for his efforts and I thank the family for lending down to us for all those many years and partaking and assisting developing young talent and giving them the wherewithal to really have confidence in playing baseball. Thank you. Council Member Ferraletto. Thanks, I just want to second everything that Council Member Wyatt said. Was the he was the executive director of the league for over 30 years he coached while he did that he was a coach Before he even before he ran the league. He was my coach for the Dodgers when I played there in the early 90s and I didn't have any out of the park home runs, but I did have one inside the park home run I'm very proud of. But his whole heart went into Shoshone. It was an unpaid position. Every year they have a parade which starts the season. You'd see him on parade day. He says it feels like Christmas Day. He was just all in. There's over 1,000 boys and girls that play baseball and softball there. So we're just grateful for all of his contributions and happy to be a part of naming these fields after him. Thanks. Okay. Motion stands. Announcements, Majority Leader Helton-Polk. Yes, thank you Mr. President. The Ellicott District stakeholders meeting will be on Saturday the 27th at 10 AM at persistence prep. I'm making sure that members know and constituents show for that. Thank you. Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, Council President. Just a reminder for our Mastin District residents, this Saturday is the Mastin District clean up. We will be kicking things off at Canisius University. This will be an all day event from 10 AM to 4 PM. In addition to being able to pick up supplies, you may also visit Delavan Grider Community Center or 995 Kensington at 10 AM, we will have garbage bags, garbage pickers, gloves, everything that you need. We are asking that all Madison District residents, even if you are not able to come out to this massive event that we are planning, that you just go outside of your house and pick up some garbage for the day. We'd appreciate it. And also just a... Early reminder to the Mass. District residents, there will be no Mass. District breakfast on Saturday, May 11th. We will be joining forces over again at Canisius University for the second annual Buffalo Black Caucus. That will also go all day from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be more information in the upcoming newsletter. Thank you so much. Nothing else? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Great work. And I'm sorry about last week in here. It's not fine. Let everyone...