Call council member Farrell little council member Fontana Council member Franzak here council member Golombak council president pigeon Council member Rivera council member Scanlon council member Wingo council member Wyatt here Under the liberty and justice Our council chaplain, Chaplain Al Warner. Reverend Al. It's a day of weaponry, Mr. Council President. This is a significant piece of equipment that I brought. You can see a shovel on one side, a stick on the other. Mr. Berry, just come up and hold this for me before I hurt myself or someone else. Thank you. Some of you may remember, if you've been around long enough, signs of hope and life. We talked about it. I was in the hallway and asked Mr. Golumbac, struck up a conversation. I started talking about Council meets, we talk the problems of the city, the challenges of the city, the difficulties of the city, but that more and more there are signs of hope and life, not just in one district, but in all of our districts. And I've sent around a sheet and asked each Council member to begin looking and thinking and pondering on two or three signs of hope and life in their districts. I'm about to do that again, and I want to kick it off today, but I want you to then start pondering science and open life in each of your council districts. Isaiah 43 says, I'm doing a new thing. Will you perceive it? I want to be able to perceive the new thing. And this crazy stick is part of what I believe is the new thing. April 11, just a few days ago, I was at a groundbreaking. Actually, at the groundbreaking was Councilmember Wingo, the council president, the mayor. And of course that groundbreaking was at, involved the Sabres and the Bills, but we weren't in Orchard Park. This groundbreaking wasn't even at the harbor center at Senate. It wasn't at the harbor, it wasn't at the medical campus. Do you remember where that groundbreaking was? I definitely do. 347 East Ferry. 347, and these were the shovels that were used for the groundbreaking April 11th at 347 East Ferry. Rich Jurelik was there from the Sabres, Thurman Thomas from the Bills, a whole host of folks that came together for a $300,000 groundbreaking project at 340 Sundays. Can I suggest to you that we've not done enough groundbreakings in some of those neighborhoods and that this is a sign of life? at one end of this but a shovel for heavy lifting and hard work at the other end, Mr. Rivera. You know the prophet Nehemiah in the Old Testament? Turns out he had to hold a sword in one hand and a shovel in the other because there were enemies trying to keep the construction from happening. As I watched that project happen with the Sabres doing the street hockey rink and the Bills doing a football field at 340 7 East Ferry, I was reminded that life is moving out from downtown into our neighborhood. Are we ready to start it? Later that same day, April 11th, I came back. And by the way, was involved in that groundbreaking and saving with Reverend Terry King, who many of you know. There was a whole host of folks that were there that were part and parcel of what was going on that day from the private and public sector. And then later that night, some of you saw on television, City of Buffalo, Deb and I were back again, Sinatra and Company sponsoring a job fair with Home Depot at 347 East Ferry. So in the morning we built recreation and the night we talked about jobs. I think both are part of signs of hope and life, recreation and the employment opportunity. So watch and start thinking about the signs of hope and life in your district. I'd like to think that I'm going to be able to bring a shovel, a golden shovel, from each of your neighborhoods, each of your districts, to the Common Council Chamber as we celebrate signs of hope and life. Let's pray. Father, thank you for what you're doing in one location, and Lord, thanks that it's bigger than any one location can hold. Thank you for bringing together public sector and private sector. Thank you for bringing together the religious community, leaders from all over, servant leaders that came to the microphone that day to celebrate team effort in bringing that neighborhood back to all you intend it to be. And Lord, I pray now for every Common Council district. I pray signs of hope and life to spread, signs of hope and life to multiply. I pray that hope will rise again among our citizens. Thank you for this session today. Blessed with your presence, we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. And your homework is looking for signs of hope and life, two or three, in each of your council districts. Thank you, Chaplain Warner, council members, and memorials. Council Member Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. We lost – City Hall lost Robin Robinault last week. Robin was the cleaner for the City of Buckwell. She did the 15th floor. And very, very nice woman. And it ends up that we had a little bit of a connection. Her sister Sharon lives down the street from the establishment that I own, and I've known her for many, many, many years. She is going to be – Robin is going to be very, very sorely missed by her sister and her family and her friends. Thank you. I didn't very much. Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of Monica Conrad, who passed away over the weekend at age 93. Mrs. Conrad was a long, long time resident of South Buffalo and just an incredibly lovely and kind woman who's going to be terribly missed by her children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and many, many nieces, nephews, cousins, and friends. Also, I'd ask that we keep in our thoughts and prayers Kate Fitzpatrick, who is the mother of Kathy Fitzpatrick, who many of us know who works here in purchasing, has been an employee here for, I believe, 34 years. She lost her mother at the age of 92 the other day. So I'd ask that we please keep the both of them and their families in our prayers. Thank you, sir. Councilman Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to keep in prayer that the family of David E. Groom Sr., He passed away this week. His son, Julius Grooms, will be preaching his home-born celebration this week, Thursday. Thank you. Where at, please? It will be at Ebenezer Baptist Church and Lackawanna River. Any others, Councilmember? All right, hearing none, we remember four Soldiers who gave their life for our country, and remember all of those who we may not know of who have passed since our last meeting, giving their lives for the freedom of not only our country, but for so many others around the world. We pause in these chambers for all of those names for a moment of silence. Thank you. On the motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on April 3rd, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections? Any of the late files that are in front of you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. I know that we have just been given, did we get all of them out already? Yes. So all the late files have been distributed. And we have one item to take out of order. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 89 out of order. Seconded by Council Member Perlund. Item number 89, discharge item 18367 from ledge. Motion to adopt the discharge. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number one, submission of monthly report, March 2018. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franza. Item number two, establish Broadway Fillmore Historic District. Motion to send to legislation items two, three, and four. Second by council member friends act and if I could just ask a question and maybe comes from her friends I can help because I see the historic district, but I see all the others Were these items for instance in that there's one in the Mastin district? And I'm just asking so I know where these items that were requested by the preservation board to be put on No, I don't you know. No this was initiated a a Preservation of Buffalo Niagara, Jessie Fisher, working with a community group, not imposing it on a community group. She was working with James Serafin, who was a trustee at Corpus Christi Church on Clark Street, which received a lot of support to restore parts of the church over the years. He was also instrumental, many of us have heard of the Matt Urban Center at 1081 Broadway. Although a lot of Americans think that Audie Murphy was the most decorated veteran in American history, it actually was Matt Urban who lived on Broadway. So he was involved with the project to save Matt Urban's boyhood home on Broadway and have a plaque put up and not have it demolished. And then also Mr. Serafin was involved with the Francis Fronchak House, no relation to me, who was a well-known east side figure in the Polish community. He was Erie County Health Commissioner. He was also known by American presidents and diplomats throughout the world. In fact, he was almost shot during the Russian Civil War. And so his house was on the verge of demolition, and Mr. Serafin went to court and also got the involvement of the Broadway Fillmore Neighborhood Housing Services with Steve Carnath, who's involved with this initiative. So to landmark, I don't think the Preservation Board really knew anything about it, to tell you the truth, because this was done organically. It was done with the community, not to the community. And I attended two community meetings at 1081 Broadway on this where citizens could come in. I attended the Preservation Board hearing on the recommendation to... designate this district and the overwhelming majority of people spoke in favor of it there was one gentleman had some trepidations But he didn't live in the neighborhood, but he owned some property I think that's the right way to do it. Mr. Yeah, so it's not you know It's not it's coming like a helicopter coming in and saying we're gonna do this it's it's coming from the neighborhood and and the key neighborhood person that was involved in many projects who work with Preservation Buffalo Niagara. He also has worked with the Central Terminal. He actually wrote a successful grant for them, was the gentleman I mentioned, Mr. Serra. So it's coming from the neighborhood, and they had community meetings in the neighborhood, so make sure everyone's got a chance to And I think that that's good because then the community is involved. We've had other situations where even the homeowners were involved. So that the East Huron and the Kensington, any knowledge on those same type of things? Because I'm just wondering, who makes the decision when something comes before? So do they just kind of wake up one morning and go, let's landmark this house? What's the process for it? Yeah, no, I think he's just making sure. Mr. Chairman, we have set a public hearing date. We set it for May the 8th for both items two, three, and four. May the 8th at what time? That would be at 2 o'clock. May the 8th, so that the public who's watching here in these chambers will be the public hearing for 2, 3, and 4. So that's for the Fillmore Historic District, 20 East Huron Street and 983 Kensington Avenue. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number five, pilot agreement for 8 Hurdle and 100 Beck. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyeth. Item number six, report of sale 283 Bissell. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number seven, report of sale for 839 and 841 Prospect. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number eight, report of sale 122 Goulin. Motion to approve items eight and nine. Second by Councilmember Lombet. Item number 10, report a sale, 143 Waverly. Motion to send to CD. Second by President Proton. Item number 11, report a sale of 208 Whitney. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item number 12, abandonment and sale portion of Dearborn Street. Motion to send to CD, items 12 and 13. Second by Council Member Weiss. Item number 14, 2018 bond ratings reports. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fontans. Item number 15, certificate of determination. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 16, debt statement of the City of Buffalo. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fiala. Item number 17, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file items 17 and 18. Second by Councilmember Fiala. Item number 19, Common Council Meeting and Budget Hearing Schedule. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. All items 19 and 20. Second by Councilmember Gell-Lombeck. Just a note on that, in case the public saw the first submission, we have changed the budget hearing slightly. so that number one, the public hearing will be held on the 15th at five o'clock, of next month of May and we wanted more time for the workshops rather than just the public hearing where we have to not spreading out the commissioners over three days bringing the commissioners one after another for their initial report or a conversation with the council and then having the real time the following week to dig into to really get into the weeds of this budget. So just wanted the public to know in case they saw the first notice, don't set your calendar on that first notice this has been amended. Thank you, next item. Item number 21, request approval of extension of contract. Motion to approve. There was one extension that I've raised in caucus. I don't know if that was taken care of, because this looks like the same as it. I'm sorry, I can't. Was this the one? Mm-hmm. Which one is HR? 338. Okay, so we didn't get to that one yet? Yeah. So this one is okay? All right. Seconded by Councilmember Fierlato. Item number 22, position of allocation maintenance. Motion to send to Civil Service items 22 and 23. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 24, change in contract for Gloria J. Parks. Motion to approve items 24 through 27. Okay. Second by Councilmember Wyham. Alrighty, thank you. Next item. Item number 28, permission to engage in agreement for comprehensive recycling analysis. Motion to approve with conditions to be supplied by Councilmember Rich Fontana. Which item is that? Item 28. 28 conditions. Councilmember Fontana, you have the floor. Thank you. There's the educational component part of the budget and part of the contract that comes through our recycling provider. And within that contract, the provider of the service is to provide the city of Buffalo with $60,000 a year in educational funding to help promote recycling. And at yesterday's caucus, I referenced that line within that contract that I've been familiar with for many years, and I asked that they use that line to pay for this contract rather than add to the deficit of the user fee, which would be put on the taxpayers of the city of Buffalo. So they've agreed now to pay for this with those educational funds and not further burden the taxpayers of the city of Buffalo with $60,000. Since this is... highly related to recycling, and it's a study of what comes out of the back of the trucks. I'm okay with that because it's kind of a one-for-one. If we were spending additional tax dollars, I would ask that a city employee do this, but since it's designated as educational funding, it's a direct use. I'm okay with that. So I'd like to have the approving motion read that the funds to fund this contract come from or be reimbursed by the contract itself. amount of $60,000 within the contract with our recycling contractor. So you're asking that it be reimbursed or that it be paid directly? Either one. I don't want to tell them how to pay it, but if it's going to be paid out of the user fee, then I want this money to be put into the user fee as a income, as a revenue. So there's going to be an expense and a revenue, or just an expense paid by the company. So whatever way they do it, it should be net zero at the end. Okay, so I want to be very clear, because we've got to put it for the record. So are you asking for payment or reimbursement? Yes. From the, give me the fund that you... The contract for recycling with the city of Buffalo. Okay, so we got that for the record? Yeah, the educational component. All right, and I'm making sure Corporation Council is all right. Is that good? All right. That's enough for the record. Thank you. Second by Council Member White. Next item. Item number 29, permission to enter into agreement with NFTA to reimburse expenses. Motion to approve items 29 through 35. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 36, mobile food truck, Big Blue. Motion is sent to legislation. Items 36 through 40. Second by Council Member White. item number 41 a point building inspector motion to send civil service items 41 through 48. second by council member for your love item number 49 2017 annual report buffalo traffic violations agency on motion to send finance items 49 and 50 taken by president protege item number 51 mayor's impact team obtained and told vehicle motion to approve with conditions The condition is that they be not take-home vehicles. Sir? Council Member Fontana. All right. Condition set that these should not be take-home vehicles unless your home is being serviced. Is that for all of 51 through 54? No, that's just item 51. Just item 51. Okay, so item 51 those conditions the then the approval is on 52 53 and 54 without those conditions next time Nope comes remember once all of them because even if the police are gonna be undercover We don't want them taking undercover cars home because I know it's no longer undercover. So the condition applies to 51 through 54 yes, all right condition applies to 51 52 53 54 Second by whoever seconded already, but in case I didn't councilmember Fontana Thank you item number 55 request to purchase to to auction city vehicles Motion to approve second by councilmember Wyatt item number 56 by your promotional expense Motion to send the civil service items 56 and 57 second my councilmember what yeah, okay? And they're going to that just wanted to make sure they were in a civil service. Okay? item number 58 items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval and disapproval motion to receive and file items 58 through 63. second by council member franza item number 64 notices of appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to send civil service in my present pro temp scandal Item number 65 request budget public hearing on May 15 motion to receive and file and I'm 65 and 66 second by councilman for your law item number 67 motorcycle on pedestrian traffic concerns motion since a CD second by councilmember Fontana item number 68 monthly City Hall incident report motion to receive and file second by councilmember Winkle I Item number 69, Seeker Negative Declaration for 269 Amherst. Motion to adopt item 69 through 72. Seconded by Council Member Freelon. Item number 73, Toxic Fish Consumption Assessment. Motion to send it to CD and Public Works. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Council Member Scanlon. Oh, I thought you had the floor. Item number 74 concerns removal of principal from Discovery School number 67 sent education So my comes very scantily who has the floor Thank You council president This letter is in response to the Buffalo Public Schools mismanagement of the removal of the principal at Discovery School number 67 and the lack of communication between the district and the parents of the students in that school and the lack of communication between the the superintendent's office in my office. Just to provide a little background on what took place on either February 15th or February 16th for personnel reasons which I am not privy to and which for these purposes are really irrelevant, the principal was removed from that school. On March 21st, through an act of the Board of Education, he was officially relieved of his duties as principal. On March 22nd, an acting principal was appointed. So that is five weeks in between him being removed from the building and someone being appointed, and there was zero communication between the Buffalo Public Schools and the parents of that school. There's five weeks where they were not informed that the principal who was entrusted with the well-being of their children was no longer in the school and that what it would appear there was no administrator in the building. The only information that any of the parents received was a Facebook post from the school itself on March 21st, the same day as the vote to remove the principal from the school, which stated the vote was going to take place. And the post was... Posted after the 12 p.m. Deadline Which the parents could notify the board that they would like to speak when I was notified of everything taking place I reached out several times to the superintendent's office and never heard back so on March 29th I penned this letter in the morning and delivered it to his office later that afternoon. I received a A letter hand delivered to me also dated on March 29th magically that this letter was going out to the parents. So now we're talking six weeks after this principal was removed from the school, the parents were finally going to be notified. In the interim, there was a PTO meeting which took place. No one from the administration attended. No one from the Board of Education attended. The new woman who was going to be taking over as temporary principal did not attend. So, I can tell you this, that if I was a parent of that school, I would be up in this building looking for some answers, not sitting around. And I know a lot of people that are parents of students in that school were up in arms about how this was handled. So what I would like is to have this item sent to the education committee. I'd like someone to come down from the administration and explain how these things can continue to happen. On this day and age, we couldn't utilize some sort of technology, whether it be telephone, email, a robocall, informing the parents to listen. The principal's been removed, again, for personnel reasons. You don't have to explain why, but he's been removed. This is the process going forward, and we'll keep you up to date just so you know what's going on with your children. And I can handle a lot. I can sit down and discuss a lot of things, but one thing I won't tolerate is our children being put in danger. And that's what happens when the actions of adults, or the inaction of adults, have not notified these parents of what's going on with their children, that's exactly what happens. Their children are put in harm's way, and it's unacceptable, and I want some answers. All right. So going to education, second by Council Member Wingo. Thank you, sir. Item number 75, scheduling conflicts due to a weekday fire examination. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 76, petition for speed enforcement and safety measures to Parkway Streets. Motion to send to CD, Public Works, and Police Oversight. Say that again? Police department. Is that the police department? I wasn't sure if it was the police oversight. I didn't know whether you wanted to make it work for yourself. Second by Council Member Golombak. Item number 77, special use for 269 Amherst. Motion to send to legislation city planning board item 77 through 79. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Civil Service, item number one, appoint telephone operator. Motion to approve items number one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. Goodbye, President Prochaska. Item number 11, notice of appointment, temporary provision on permanent. Motion to receive and file. Say goodbye, the majority leader. Finance, item number 12, capital debt management policy. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development, item number 13, transfer of 493 Michigan, 499 Michigan, and 1214 Arsenal. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Second by Council Member Ferriero-Lito. Item number 15, heat and hot water concerns at Frederick Douglas. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferriero-Lito. Item number 16, dissolution of the VNRC. Motion to adopt. um second by councilman oh second by councilmember phillip item number 17 330 broadway designated developer agreement help development corporation motion to deny second by councilman why item number 18 response to investigation of shinda management property i'm sorry for the record uh item number 17 the reason for denial um is help development corporation met with community members who were concerned about their proposed project, they agreed that they would not go forward with the help three development project as had been announced until they could meet with neighbors and they did not, they did ask to be reconsidered. And my response was after they have met with neighbors, but they agreed with the denial. So that for the record. I'm sorry. Item number 18, response to investigation of Shinda Management Corporation. Motion to receive and file 18 through and including 21. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Legislation. Item number 22, special use 1854 hurdle. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion now is to recommit. uh second by councilmember wingle item number 23 special use 494 franklin there's uh no objections motion to approve items 23 and 24. second by the president pro temp item number 25 full store license 143 wadden avenue motion to approve with conditions uh second by the majority leader item number 26 property manager license mayfair buffalo realty Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Weil. Item number 27, tire handler license 2140 Genesee Street. A motion to deny with causes enunciated by the district council member. Council member, you want to speak to the record? Provide them in writing. You'll do it in writing? I think I'll have a stronger case. All right, so for the record, the council member will submit in writing the reasons for the denial. Thank you, sir. We're not trying to stop him from changing a tire here or there. This large scale tire handler, they could go up to 1,000 to 2,000 tires. and the location just doesn't have the room for it. So that's part of the reason. But I don't want to stop him. If he wants to install a tire on a car, he's more than welcome to. I'm not trying to put him out of business. But this handler issue is something we have to get our handle on, because it's from four to 1,000 tires. That's quite a bit of tires to have on stock. Over at Niagara and Rhode Island, my grandfather ran an auto shop there for 40 years. They didn't have 1,000 tires in the shop. They had a nice little selection of tires on some racks within the place, and that was it. Now these guys want to carry every little size, every little selection, and I understand there's more tire sizes and selections now than there were in the past, but it can't be at every single location. Correct. So the only reason we ask is because Corporation Council has asked us whenever we deny anything. Size. Size is the problem. They just don't have the extra space to put the containers in a fashion that they could look proper. Thank you, sir. That's entered into the record. Item number 28, Taxi Cab Ordinance Amendment Recommendation. Motion to refer to the Common Council's Taxi Subcommittee and the Law Department. All right. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 29, response to PVS chemical, PUD 229 elk. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 30, 229 elk, negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Friulano. Item number 31, property manager license. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Friulano. Item number 32, 229 elk street and 83 Lee street. Motion to approve with conditions set by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. All right. Second by Councilmember Fontana who has the floor. Oh, that's fine. Item number 33, appeal preservation board decision for 21 Mayfair. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Freelon. Item number 34, letter of intent for PUD and major site plan. Motion to approve with conditions set by the DEC. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 35 3199 Main Street concerns restaurant dance license there are no objections motion receiving file items 35 and 36 second my council members scale item number 37 special use permit for 30 21 Bailey motion to approve with conditions Item number 38 2017 full store license renewals motion is to approve my Item number 39, use of 3223 Bailey for a gas station. If there are no objections, motion to approve items 39 through and including 42. By Council Member Wyatt. I have a receiving file. You have a receiving file on which number? 39 through 42. 39, 40, 41, and 42. How does it file? Receiving file. Right. So just for clarification, that is a motion to receive a file. Next item. Item number 43, 238 Carlton Street. Well that was discharged and I don't know if it's coming up in the resolution section or is it technically before us? This is the item before us. This is the item. So it's to approve. This is the moving. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Yeah. So this has been seconded by Councilman Golombic. This has been the building on Carlton that caught fire. And the reason I'm asking for, well, that we just approved it is because when the present owner bought it, he already knew that it caught fire. And he, and I would assume he knew that in the fruit belt that they have asked that no more properties be demolished. And so he has no problem demolishing this to build a new house, but doesn't want to fix the houses there that he knew the condition of it. This is one that I wholeheartedly feel we should landmark. So, next item. Item number 44, education BPS district settlement proposal for city honors. Motion is received and filed. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Resolutions, item number 80, fee waiver. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Should be approved. Is it an approval? Number 80? Yeah. 80. Is that an approval? No. It's a fee waiver approval. Oh, approval. Yep. Motion to approve. Same. Second by Councilman Fairlawn. Item number 81, Ordinance Amendment for Preservation Standards. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilman Fairlawn. Item number 82, Public Meeting in Regards to Spectrum Franchise Agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second. Second by Councilmember Fontana. She's going up on rates again. I understand. My goodness. Councilmember Fontana, you have the floor. Well, there you go. The bill is more than your gas bill and more than your electric bill currently, and now they're going up even more. And this really is about that issue. This is not to negotiate the franchise agreement in public, of course. Some people are getting the wrong opinion as to what this says. But in our franchise agreement, it gives us the right to poll the public on the service that they're being provided. And essentially, we haven't done that in quite some time, so it's time to do it. And it's a good time because, you know, if you have a television in your bedroom or a spare room or your kid's room, and right now coaxial cable is running through your house to that television and they get limited channels from the remote control, you're not going to have that ability anymore. So you're going to have to pay $8, $6.99, maybe $10, depends on who it is or what you have, to get a box. And you're going to pay that all the time. Maybe you get the first year for free. So they're going to tell us all about this, let us know. Time Warner would normally come in and speak to us on these issues. We haven't heard from Spectrum, so we reached out to Spectrum and they are willing to come to the meeting, discuss the issue at length, and then hear from the public. And I think residents have a right to tell the cable company what they feel about the service, whether it's good or bad. But the franchise agreement might come up, but it's not really for that purpose. at the last meeting me and mr weyer were talking we heard that the administration might have been talking about the franchise agreement with time warner with spectrum and i guess last year some meetings did occur But historically, this council has been part of the negotiations right from the start. I've been in many of the negotiations over the years, sometimes without the administration, just to get something working. But we would like to be included in any talks the administration is having with Spectrum because many of the needs and wants of the city taxpayers are brought through this council, and they should be reflected in that agreement. I agree. And, I mean, these bills are astronomically high. I think I pay about $180. and $80. I went to a member's house from the church. She's 92 years old, in the house, and still does Meals on Wheels, but mostly in the house. And she had the cable on and I said, you know my bill's a hundred and something dollars. She said, mine's is more than that. And I thought, wow, 90 years old and we're chained to this stuff. So I just put another box in my house The person from Spectrum told me don't put any... I told him to come and wire it up. She said, don't put any more. Spectrum told me, go buy a Roku for $29, put it on your TV, download the app for Spectrum, and you can get it for free. You don't have to pay for it. Now, you also then have to have... by spectrum in order for it to work. But now all the TVs in the house are on the roll cool and one on the box, two on the box. But it's ridiculous the prices that we are paying and reading that is going up. It's just going to make it so much, so much more difficult, especially for poor and struggling families. who many of the students need the internet for their homework research and everything else and you're right, it's higher than the gas bill for some people in Buffalo. That's high. And it does affect residents of lower incomes higher because over the years, their take on premium channels actually was higher than than more affluent residents of the city of Buffalo. And I asked the question, well how are they, why is that the case? And they said that residents with lower incomes stay home more, they don't have a car potentially, they don't go out as much, they don't have as many entertainment choices. So the entertainment choice that could be delivered to the home in the most affordable fashion was the cable. But now it's going up so much, you wonder if residents still could have that situation. Because we were talking back then of bills of $50, $60. Now, as you're saying, with the internet, it's gone up tremendously. Now, Time Warner, and Adelphia, and now Spectrum, It was set in the, we mentioned the word monopoly in this resolution originally, and it threw off an alarm across Erie County. And they're not a monopoly by choice, of course. As Tom Tarapacki says, it's a virtual monopoly because there's no other players in town that will use our right-of-way to run cable. So it's the only technical cable company because to open up another cable company, you have to build the entire city of Buffalo out. You can't just come in and do Lovejoy or North or University. You have to build the whole city out. So even if you're near the Buffalo line, you can't come over the Buffalo line and build a cable system unless you build the whole city. So that's cost prohibitive in these environments. That's why there's no other companies doing business. What other news stations have reported that we've turned down competition. We've never turned it down. Anybody could come to the city of Buffalo and be granted a franchise agreement. As long as they file the application, do it properly, build the whole city, talk to the PSC. All those items have done correctly. They can have a franchise agreement tomorrow. But no one comes. It's like we have something for sale, but no one takes it. So there's no collusion here to keep Spectrum the only game in town. There's nothing like that at all. It's just the way it is financially. And they shouldn't be burdened with the fact that someone to call them a monopoly, it's not really fair. Because they didn't buy the company and kick them out. There just never was another company. So they've been the only one in town since the beginning of Delphia building the system. I think things are going to change in a little while with technology. I do too. Because right now, just like the phone, where, you know, I think that... Sooner or later it's going to get to the point where you can just through the cape and you really can in many ways Where you can just get your services through your internet and move on they're gonna out price them We're gonna talk about in budget as well But this is gonna hit our budget as well because there's a over a million dollar line in our budget close to it For the cable franchise fee we collect 5% for them doing business within our right-of-way and As more people, as you mentioned, with the technology go to streaming, we lose that 5% in revenue that's given to the company. So this could affect the city budget down the road as well. Thanks, sir. Next slide. Item number 83, transfer funds, city fire alarm phase 2. Motion to approve items 83 and 84. Second by President Bruxelles. Item number 85, call for full cleanup of West Valley. Motion to adopt 85 and 86. Second by... Council Member Golombak, who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. In regard to item number 86, this is a longtime project that I've been working with Messrs. Frizzlin and Yachts. It's the old train terminal on Amherst Street. on Tonawanda Street actually between Amherst and Niagara. There's a small part of a paper street, Dearborn Street, that is more or less landlocked between the property and railroad property that is going to be hopefully sold to them. That's going to open up and allow them to be able to put up some, I think, 30-some apartments back there. That's one of approximately 20 projects that myself and other people in the North District have been working on. And as the Reverend said, you know, there's good and there's hope and there's more that's coming to all of our different neighborhoods. because uh you know i don't think it's just uh the residents of buffalo but it's we on this council that get frustrated when you only see one area it seems downtown you know gets all of the money all the attention but you know we also know that it takes time for the good that's happening in other parts of the cities of the city to expand and it is starting to hit the North District parts of The west side that I represent North Buffalo and Black Rock and Riverside There's approximately 20 projects that we're working on that I think a third of them are going to come That are going to start this year and the remainder next year and hopefully all 20 of them will be Completed within the next year or two. Thank you, sir. I next item item number 87 approval of abandonment and sale portion of dareborn motion to send the cd second by councilman item number 88 appoint catherine to preservation board motion to approve did you say point catherine you didn't want to attack that last name did i say right anybody who knows catherine f schweitzer you notice she said appoint catherine It was ready to go. Second by Councilmember Franza. And I do want to say, obviously this appointment that replaces Paul McDonald on that board, Paul McDonald was placed just because his time had expired. And actually in these last, couple of months we had several good conversations in which he educated me on some of the decisions and so ended up being a good working relationship and I do want to thank mr. McDonald for his service to our city because it is a volunteer post and for caring about preservation we didn't always agree in government you don't have to always agree but he was always a gentleman and And so we know he will not disappear from the preservation community. He will still be there Still be a lightning rod for what he believes in it as he should but I do want to publicly thank mr. McDonald for his service and sharing that board and being a part of that board and even staying on beyond a the date when his appointment expired. And according to our charter, he cannot be reappointed twice. He can't be reappointed consecutively after his term has ended. Councilman Frenzel? Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I appointed Paul McDonald to the Preservation Board when I was council president because he was a hard, strong person. rock rib preservationist, plus he's an architect, so he understands the buildings. I also know Katherine Schweitzer very, very well, and she was instrumental in bringing in when she was at Buffalo Preservation Niagara, when they had the very successful, prestigious National Trust of Historic Preservation National Conference in Buffalo a few years ago, and she helped organize and orchestrate that. And she took them all, it was a big hit, because I've been to some of those conferences. And we put our best foot forward in Buffalo. I think we are about the best of virtually all the cities that I've been to, cities as big as Chicago, and cities you might not, like Spokane, Washington, Portland, Oregon hosted the convention Los Angeles big city, so we're in a league with important cities and she orchestrated and Helped manage the the entire convention all over the city including one of their sessions Was in the central terminal in my district which just received five million dollars from the state of New York. So Catherine was very helpful And what I'm excited about the councilman for your letter actually introduced me to her I was she talks about processes and wanted to make sure the processes are right within on the on the preservation board and I was excited about that you know not just somebody waking up one day saying no we're gonna pick this house but why did we pick that house what other process is there and training so I think she's going to be a fabulous addition to the board All right, next item item number 90 home rule request to pass for BSA bonds Motion to adopt second by councilmember Wyatt item number 91 unpaid tax policy motion to adopt item 91 Second by councilmember little and councilmember Rivera you had a floor. Thank you very much. Mr. President this resolution supports the creation of an unpaid tax policy for the City of Buffalo. It directs that anyone doing business with the City of Buffalo, anybody that has any consideration, whether it's planning board, zoning board, any approvals that they consider whether or not the individual or the developer has paid their taxes. As you know, we all pay our taxes. If we don't pay our taxes, they foreclose on our properties. If you go to... the auction, if you have any unpaid fees, you cannot bid on properties. It should be no different for developers or anybody else that does business in the City of Buffalo. And especially at a time where we're going through budget deficits and we need to close the gap, we need to make sure that everyone that does business in the City of Buffalo. So we're directing our law department to put together a policy with regards to unpaid taxes, to make sure that we consider unpaid taxes whenever we're deliberating, whether it's the planning board, zoning board. As a matter of fact, there was something before the zoning board or the planning board, and they could not consider the fact that the developer did not pay taxes. Well, this will allow them to consider that. Anyone that comes to the City of Buffalo for any approvals or a benefit should pay their taxes and we ask and direct them to come before us before or on July the 24th with this policy. This is a creation of a policy and certainly we can tweak it wherever we need to, but we need to have a policy, a clear policy going forward for everyone. And I would hope that we could get it done even before then. And this is why, you know, we're going to budget, I mean, going to our new budget in July. And I think that should be in place for anybody. I think if someone comes to this council with a license for a tire handler, well, why should we give a license for you to open a business and you owe the city money? And just so I think it's a good resolution. I really was under the impression that that was already in place for certain things. But I agree, for everyone. And that way, I think it's a hammer. But at the same time, then we are not giving more services to someone who hasn't taken care of the services that we've already produced. So I definitely hope that law department can move on this before we are into July 1st, because it doesn't seem like it should be that difficult. Uh to do well, but I know law has a lot of stuff. So let me say but they got big brains And all of that and they that so I know it can be done council member. Wyatt. You have a floor. Thank you Mr. Chair, I'd like to be signed on on this. I think it's so important and I don't know just to ask corporation council Um when we give people license do we check to see if they owe taxes? I mean, I know it may be an arduous process, but I definitely agree. If you're going to do business in the city of Buffalo, your stuff should be in order. And if we are responsible to make sure our taxes are paid, anyone that's doing business should be in, you know, maybe we should look at some thresholds, but I think it's something that we need to look at at least. So the question was? Yeah. Assistant Representative and Councilor Karen Gordon, generally we don't. There are some. variances certain licenses that are not per se city they're mandated or their standards are handed down by the state that has to be taken into consideration there might be somewhere we have the wiggle room to do so and it might be somewhere we can i will look into it that is busted by me i would let the council know um is this item going to committee We're adopting it. We're adopting it. So it'll be, so the law department is now being instructed to start the address. Now we could adopt it and send the remainder to committee so that we keep it up on the board. And Mr. Chairman, this is not just with regards to one developer that was an article in the paper. Absolutely. Not too long ago, and they have paid their unpaid taxes for the record. I have checked with. Tax department their taxes are current this is going forward for any developer any individual so I don't want to single anybody out and and so would you would you like to amend that motion by Adopting it and sending the remainder so that we have it up on the board motion to adapt and the remainder to what committee? to legislation. Legislation? Second by Councilmember Whyte. And, yeah, I so I think in transparency, because if the state, if there's some licenses that the state says, well, you can't do that, that's when I think we start to do our home rule, work with our state folks, because if we can't bring in the income and we've got to then run to the state for money, why would the state then say, on that license, you can't do it? I think that we need to do this. It's so important to do it. And you're right, for the right reasons for all of us. So that people who, and some people just hit hard times, and let's say it. You hit hard times, then you've got to wait to develop something. And I don't mean, but at the end of the day, we didn't have it. And I like being honest and transparent and saying we didn't have it, we didn't know that it wasn't there, but going forward, we should. Council Member Fontana. Yes, sir. Just for Corporation Council's certification, the problem has been the LLCs. They're starting to open up a new LLC for every single entity. So that one else LLC might not own something, but further looking into it with the principles may show that the principle of another LLC owes us money. So that's somewhere we might have to look into because that's really what's going on. The county is having trouble collecting on some of the judgments because essentially they're like, yeah, sure. I owe the I owe this judgment within Erie County. The judge handed it down. But I'm not doing business as that anymore. I'm doing business as this. And it becomes a problem. So if we could find a way to help safeguard around this LLC situation, proliferation, I think that could help in this situation as well. Because I fully agree, if the license is issued, if something's handed through, you're given a piece of paper, or there's a real estate closing, or if you're granted a license, then your obligations to the City of Buffalo should be paid in full by that time. Maybe not to apply, but before you get it, they better be, they better definitely be approved. Absolutely. Thank you, General. Next item. Item number 92, home request for William J. Cooley. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 93, sport complex feasibility study. Motion to adopt the resolves. The remainder to CD. Second by President Peralta. Item number 94, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt. Council Member Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at 945 AM. Following Civil Service Committee on Finance, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at 10 AM. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at 1 PM. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at 2 PM. Special Committees, Special Committee on Finance, Monday, April 30, 2018 at 5.30 p.m. Council Member Revere, Mr. Chairman, motion to revisit item 38 in ledge. Which number? 38. Motion is to revisit item 38 in ledge. Second by Council Member Golombet. Mr. Chairman, if I might, on 38 Ledge, it's the food store license renewals for all the stores in all the districts. And Council Member Wingo has some that he wishes to take out from the approval for the purposes of a hearing on some of these stores. And he has the list of those stores that he will tell you about. So the... Why don't we do this to make it clean? Let's rescind the motion to approve the motion second by council member wyatt and then we will approve Removing the following stores the following stores are family dollar number five zero four zero That's 736 these delavan that would also be dollar general store store number 14886 That's at 663 each ferry And then that's also Dollar General, store number 8960 at 212 Holden Street in Buffalo, New York. These three stores are in the Mastin District, of which we've made several attempts with how to reach out to the store's management and leadership. Even on the district level we have not received a single solitary response all of the requests to clean up around the stores have gone unheard and One store made one attempt to clean not to clean up what to repair the parking lot where the register for the water drain Literally had shifted off of the drain They put a garbage can on top of the drain so that the cars wouldn't drive into the hole in the parking lot. I'm We've made several attempts to try to get that repaired. They made that repair But then again to there are rodents and all other types of things happening around the recycling receptacles and also the garbage Dumpsters so these three stores we will not be approving until we had a hearing We have a hearing tonight at the Delavan Grider Center 877 East Ferry Which they have not confirmed as well and again, like I said, we've reached we actually in Maston District We have a voluntary meeting with all of our food stores every other month, and we have roughly 85% of all of our food stores attending these meetings, of which these three stores have yet to attend, and we can't, for whatever reason, reach the meeting. The management, one manager's name is Jim. We can't reach him. Another manager's name is Andy Erie, and we've only made contact with him once. So these individuals need to come out to this meeting tonight and explain to us the reason why these stores are in such deplorable condition, unsafe conditions, as well as the fact that there is no clear management or leadership at those stores. All right, and then what I was checking with Corporation Council just so the public because we use the word hearing some might Take that literally as a council hearing and then want community meeting community meeting So that will take place. It may be a hearing of the Mastin district I just want to make sure so that you wouldn't be challenged on the fact that so community meeting on those stores I just this clarification if I could I Do you not have to have a community, I mean not a community, do you not have to have a hearing in City Hall for those or with licensing? No. You don't have to have these stores, you don't have to have division of licensing? That was a question. Karen, I'm sorry. Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counselor. I didn't quite catch your question. With these delis, because Mr. Wingo is extracting these out for review, they're not reviewed immediately. Would the community meeting be sufficient? to satisfy the Charter about having a meeting regarding these stores, or does there have to be a hearing in the Division of Licensing also? I do not know what a division of licenses actually does as it relates to that, so I cannot speak to that. But I believe that for the Common Council in making the decision whether or not to approve it, they can do so once, if they can do it here with quorum, of course, but anything outside might be a matter of, I don't know, consultation, community meeting, that kind of stuff, but approval would probably still have to be done with quorum on the floor. So what Mr. Wingo wants to do, that's kosher, basically? Yeah, I think he's just trying to have community meetings, and that's totally fine. Okay. Run by a council member. Got it. Yeah. Thank you. All right. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Mr. President. Can we revisit briefly item number 75? I think we received it. Oh, yeah. So we've got to finish that. Sorry. So we approve this item minus those establishments stated by Council Member Wingo. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Thank you. Councilmember? Can we revisit item number 75? Majority Leader? Motion to revisit item 75 my comes were white before. Thank you. This is a letter I sent to Gladys Herndon Hill the Commissioner of Human Resources regarding some scheduling conflicts Which have surfaced as a result of scheduling the written portion of next month's Buffalo firefighter exam during the week Historically the exams were administered on a Saturday I know the previous exam was on a Tuesday, but prior to that they were always administer on the weekend and in an attempt to attract the most higher caliber of candidates I think we need to ensure that as many people in the city of Buffalo can take the exam. Scheduling during the week prevents some people from taking the exam due to work conflicts other and in addition to it just being not just being during the week but also the first week of May some young people who are in college also may have finals that week which would prevent them from taking the exam. So when I contacted the department, I was informed that it was on a Tuesday because of a scheduling conflict at the convention center, which I understand. But I would ask that we attempt to be much more proactive when doing this. We spend a lot of money and a lot of resources administering this exam, and I want to make sure we're getting the best bang for our dollar, our best bang for our buck. As we all know, we are... undertaking an overhaul of the hiring process of both the Buffalo Police and Fire Department to ensure that it is as transparent and as inclusive as is possible And I think the only way that we can do that is if we present Provide the opportunity for as many city Buffalo's residents as possible to take these exams. Are those usually on Saturday? They're usually typically they're on a Saturday. The previous one was on a Tuesday, but historically they're on a Saturday. I It's too bad. Thank you for bringing that to our attention. All right. Council members, any other announcements or revisits? All right. Hearing no revisits, any announcements? Council member Wyatt. We're on announcements, right? Yep. Okay. Yes, sir. I'm just going to announce to the University District residents to come out this Saturday April 21st at 9 a.m. At the Olmstead High School at 319 Suffolk We have our quarterly meeting and we have a lot of exciting things to talk about So I'm asking the residents especially those residents who haven't come out, you know a lot of times we talk about um having information, well, this is your opportunity. You know, these meetings are, I'm going to try to move them around so that more people can attend. But it's important because I need to hear from them. I can't go to everyone's house and knock on their door. This is an opportunity that we come to you, we provide you a breakfast, and we have a nice, agenda that we go through and we give you an opportunity to give an input but we have some exciting things going on so this saturday april twenty first nine a m homestead school hope that you'll come out and join us for our community breakfast and we also have a community cleanup that's going to be taking place with the National Pan-Hellenic Council in the Deltas on Saturday, May 5th at 9 a.m. at Edwards Saunders Community Center. We hope you'll come out. And also the headliner, our University United Festival will be taking place on Saturday, June 9th from 11 to 8 p.m. We hope that the community is coming out in a big way. We're getting a lot of hits on Facebook about this event, but I'm excited because again, this is about giving the community this momentum to be proud. You know, so for a long time, we didn't have things in my district. And now we have something that people can be proud of and we bring the community together. So we hope people come out on Saturday, June 9th at 11 a.m. and our parade is at 10 a.m. starting at East Amherst and Bailey. Thank you. I think some of the hits on Facebook was because you were dancing in the commercial. And so many people were surprised to see Councilmember Rasheed and see Wyatt dancing. And so I think that they, you know, they hit it and liked it. I even liked it and shared it. Councilman Wingo. Again, I would just like to reiterate the meeting that we're having tonight at the Delavan Grider Center regarding the food stores that are in the Mastin District. That will be tonight, 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center at 6 p.m., 6 p.m. And, again, we meet with our food stores. on a bi-monthly basis to ensure that the communication is always open and we are encouraging all of the community to come out tonight to express some of their concerns and desires so that we can continue with this open dialogue so that we can make sure that our community stores are community assets and that these food stores are community assets. So again, that's tonight at 6 o'clock at the Delavan Grider at 877 East Delavan. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Wyatt. Sorry, I got overwhelmed. Tonight we have a community meeting regarding Checkers Bar on Hurdle Avenue. We want residents to come out and voice their concerns or opinions. We wanna make a motion to support this, depending on the community, next council meeting. So I hope that the residents will come out at the Daily Planet coffee shop at 5.30. Thank you. And so that everybody knows, today is April 17th, as you all say today. and if it's on a playback they might show up on the thursday april 17th today there you go all right anything else council member to adjourn second by council member scanlon