Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Francik. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At you. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Council Member Warren. Present. I stand for the pledge.
 of the United States of America, in which we do the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, our nation, and of your God, in which we will be in justice and glory. Morning prayer will be by our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. I guess each of you had a celebration of resurrection over the last few days. We're certainly in a city that's experiencing its own resurrection as well.
 As I mentioned to each of you, it's a historic day in terms of churches of western New York. They have pooled together 50 different leaders from Easter Sunday to Pentecost Sunday, each to write part of what's become a daily devotional for the 50 days of that period. And in a few moments, I'm going to read a couple of quotes from yesterday's author, Pastor Gillison from Mount Olivet, who's prayed for the opening of this council, as well as his son, Duane. Both have been here over the last couple of years.
 In addition to that, the church then, this devotional ends on June 4th. That Friday night, June 9th, we're gathering at the Key Bank Arena for a gathering similar to what we did in 2013 when 13,000 came together at the arena for a celebration of Good Pride together. We're calling this one Pentecost together.
 So it's an exciting time as the church takes on legs. Let me give you a quote or two from Pastor Gillison yesterday's devotional. He entitled it Experiencing Resurrection and quoted John 11. He said to her, I am the resurrection and the light. Pastor Gillison said this, God has a way of working things out in our favor. He can breathe new life into dead situations we're facing.
 He closed it with this, We should take great encouragement from the fact that whatever temptations, struggles, or disappointments we may be dealing with, especially those that seek to hinder our relationship with God, the same God who spoke life into Lazarus can also bring the resurrection life of Jesus Christ to any dark, dead place in our life. Some of you know what it's like to have dead, dark places in your life, in your own life, and in your family.
 We've gone through some personal tragedy recently in our own family. We feel that weight of death very close to us. But God specializes in coming to places where things are entombed and speaking resurrection life over those dark, dead places in our lives. I want to pray that not just for the council today, but for the citizens of our city. Let's pray together. Father, we've just come through a holy week season.
 But you know, some folks are still more in Good Friday than they are in Easter Sunday. They feel the pain of death and loss and grief and hurt more than they feel the power of life, new life, abundant life and resurrect. Some of those sit in the chambers this morning. Some are part of the Common Council, or for Debbie and me, this is our own experience right now. Some of the citizens that will be watching this on television are feeling the pain, the hurt.
 Lord, I pray even now, coming alongside that, and I agree with what Pastor Gilliston wrote so powerfully, that you're the God who speaks resurrection and life over the dark, dead places in our life. Father, today we invite you, the God of life, the God of light, the God of abundance, to come alongside those that are hurting. Share, mourn with those who mourn. But Lord, thank you that joy is coming in the morning. I pray even now for this second, your abundant, close presence in our city.
 And we thank You that You're the God who loves us good days, bad days, ugly days, every day. In Jesus' name, Amen.
 Vice-member of the Lumber. Thank you, Mr. President. The AMVETS post on Review Place lost its former commander, Dave Hook, a couple of days ago. He is going to be very, very sadly missed by his wife, Loretta, by his son, Brian, and by the members of the Riverside Black Rock community. Also, he was very active at his church, St. John's United Church of Christ, on Amherst Street. Thank you.
 I teach a course at Buff State on Buffalo history, and we do tours in the neighborhood. And Dave was great. If I called him up and said, hey, I want to bring some kids so that we can do a tour of the neighborhood, can you open up the church? He said, you tell me the time, you tell me the place, and I will be there. But just a good guy all the way around.
 Also, Sharon Tchaikovsky, 54 years young, passed away this past week as well. She was very, very active in numerous organizations, the West Turtle Association, Black Rock Canal Park, former St. Florians, currently at Assumption Church. She will be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, her community, and in particular, her sister Lisa.
 Thank you. Council Member Franzen? I'd like to remember a block club activist. Her funeral was yesterday at St. Adelbert's Basilica, which is fighting to keep its doors open. And they had a good room in the Vatican. But there was Alice Iacoboski who lived on St. Viescu Street. I think she's the mayor of that street.
 If anything that happened in that community, any rumor or anything you thought that was going to happen, Alice would call. You know, she got, she called, she was so persistent, it was unbelievable. Calls just come out every day. She and her husband Danny, who passed away about ten years ago, when he passed away was at the loss at that time. But I mean, she just kept it going. She picked the clock, kept talking.
 And she had the nicest house on the block by far. And it was a great alternative to the role model. And so she was good. Absolutely. Hilliard. Mrs. Hilliard. Mrs. Hilliard. You know her.
 Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. President. We mourn the loss of one of our staples in our community, the wife of the pastor of the Humboldt Baptist Church, Sister Hilliard. And again, I want to stress that the reason why I'm not saying her first name is because the way we were raised, you don't say the first name of some people. So she's always going to be Sister Hilliard to me.
 So we want to acknowledge that we are thinking about Pastor Hilliard and his congregation as they mourn the loss of their First Lady, their Elect Lady, Sister Hilliard, who was a staple in our community, who also was the glue and adhesive in a lot of areas. Not a very loud person, but a person who you knew when she was around.
 So we want to just say that they have our condolences and they also have our prayers. Thank you, Mr. President. And I asked Council Member Wingo to announce, because he's a part of the leadership of the Baptist Ministers Council, but she will be missed. It's a quiet woman who got it done right by her husband's side. Council Member White, this is a little bit unusual, but I just wanted to...
 Send our prayers for the two little boys who were killed in the 90 the other day. You know, when you hear something that happens to children, it just hurts. And this is an accident that occurred, and the little boy was ejected, and he was hit again. So, you know, this family is going through a great deal, I'm sure. Unexpected coming back from vacation, but we're praying for that family right now.
 I was a member of the Fountain Center. And along with my colleague from the university, we had a Benepark Montessori, former student and then graduate of Buffalo Public Schools, 18-year-old, a young man pass away or die in a pool over at the morning in a hotel. The family, I don't know what the name of the family said, but he was 18 years old. They did teach swimming at Benepark Montessori. I heard he could swim, but there was an accident that happened in that pool, and unfortunately we lost a youth to that.
 to a water accident. And every summer and spring we talk about it here. Tell the youth to be careful around waterways. Stay away from the ship canal, the Union Ship Canal. Stay away from certain bodies of water here in western New York because they're just not safe. Here we lost a young individual, the prime of his life, to a pool. Unfortunately, there's no one there to sit next to.
 Hearing none other, we of course remember our men, women, civilians, and military who have given their life across this country for the freedom of others and the freedom of those of us living in the United States of America. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. We don't have a special presentation today. Oh, he's busy. I was going to ask
 There is a question on social media of what is Dingus Day. And I was going to have Councilmember Franczak give us a two minute breakdown of what Dingus Day is. Like I saw it so much yesterday, like what is Dingus Day? And because I know you know,
 Council Member, would you grace us today? The thing is they make so much more sense than Fast Tuesday in New Orleans because they party before the fact, and then they fast. If they're practicing Catholics, they'll fast. They'll give something up for Lent.
 you know, for the Easter holiday, for the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ. So they'll not eat meat on given Fridays, every Friday. And then they'll give something up they like to do. I know Mr. Bloomberg gives up cigars. I don't know if he did this time, but he gives something up.
 And many people do. So the idea of Dingus Day, which originated in Poland in the Middle Ages, is that you have the celebration after you've sacrificed to have something to look forward to, not before. Oh, we're going to party and then we have to give something up. This way they have this goal, something to look forward to.
 And so on the Monday after the resurrection, on Monday, Dingus Day Monday, Easter Monday, they really let all things fly. They eat the traditional foods, and Buffalo is noted for this, with all the varied ethnic vendors and merchants, whether it's the polar sausage, fresh or smoked,
 or the ham, or the nice homemade breads and butter lambs. My wife makes her own butter lamb at home. She craps it, because her mother taught her how to do that. So it's all about family. It's all about tradition. But as we know in this country, we have kind of a spring tradition known as Sadie Hawkins. You know, it's a time when young people, when they're partying and celebrating and having a good time,
 You might have, you might be attracted to, young people might be attracted to each other certainly. So at the party, which deals with adult beverages at times responsibly, and good cheer, and good food, and now we have a great parade here in the city of Buffalo. It started with 20 floats, and now it's, oh, it's 120 floats.
 The Eastside comes alive with the traditional Polish colors of red and white. And the parade comes and there were parades afloat of people with the churches, images of the churches, images of the community and the neighborhood, people in support as this council is for the Central Terminal. But it's an ethnic celebration. The Broadway Market really comes alive and is packed with thousands and thousands of people. And there's the tradition of the Pussy Willow, which is a spring festival.
 plant that comes out with the little buds on it. And, you know, in the old country it was a bucket of water, and so you'd go chase, you know, your intended or someone you'd like to get attracted to, and you'd run and chase them with a bucket of water. The girls and the boys and with the pussy willow and give them a little friendly tap with the pussy willow. There's lots of dances, lots of partying.
 I got home early for me. I got home at 2 o'clock when I hit the bed, 2 a.m., so that's not bad for me. You know, so I got to make sure I walked to all the venues. I walked to every venue so I could see what's going on everywhere. Interestingly enough, things got so raucous in Poland.
 in the 13th century that one of the bishops gave a decree to outlaw dingus day. Dingus schmingus is what they call it. And I always assure people that the Buffalo City Council will never, ever outlaw dingus day. So, you know, it's a good time had by all. I've seen many people on this council have walked in the parade. I don't know if Joe has any other wrinkle on it because I know he's got, he has parties in his district too. Okay.
 He used my two minutes. You got that. More than that. Thank you, Mr. Lombreg. Mr. Friend, Council Member Friend, hopefully those who asked the question, now we are even better equipped to answer that. Thank you.
 All right. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 4, 2017 are approved. The late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing none, we will hear the entire agenda. It does not take away your right to object to the late files when they come before you if you have not had time to review them from the top.
 Item 1, submission of 311, calls monthly, report April. Motion to receive and file items 1 through 6. Seconded by Council Member Fairlady. Item 7, debt statement of the City of Buffalo. Motion to send to finance item 7 through 11. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 12, foreclosure of tax user fees and sewer rent liens. Motion to receive and file items 12 and 13. Motion to receive and file item 12 and 13.
 All right. I'll catch up. Next. Item 14, encroachment within right-of-way, 1012 Sycamore. Motion to approve items 14. Excuse me. Item 14 is in Fillmore. Yes. 14 is they're asking for a wheelchair lift, and I would be in support of that request. Motion to approve items 14.
 Second by Council Member White. Item 15, changing contract to an award pumping station roof replacement. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Second by Council Member DeLombe. Item 17, handicap access ramp 120 West Eagle. Motion is now to approve.
 Second by council member glomber I'm 18 which request proposed outdoor patio within right away to 29 Lexington motion It sent the legislation second by councilman Fontana 19 reported bids paving 2017 group motion to approve items 19 through 22 and then by president protein 23 point assistant filtration plan operator ocean ascended civil service items 23 and 24 saying about
 24 is time sensitive. If we could just do 23, I think he talked to you about it, Council Member Revere, because it's an employee that they need right away. Oh, is that item number 24? It all moved because we had to regenerate.
 So that would be the item 24. Yeah. You should remember that was the last name of the reviewer. I know it's not related to that. So motion is to approve item 24. Yes. If everybody's okay with that, he just needs it done. Motion to approve. Second by President Proctor. Item 25, approval of EMS Medical Director. Thank you.
 Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 26, food store license 1517 Broadway. Motion to send to ledge items 26 through 33. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 34, permission to request purchase of prisoner meals.
 Motion to approve items 34 and 35. Seconded by Council Member Wingold. Item 36, Buffalo Sewer Authority 2017-2018 Budget. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 37, items return to city clerk without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 37 through 40. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Item 41, notice of appointment, council in turn. Motion to adopt. Seconded by President Poteau. Item 42, certificate of appointment. Motion to approve.
 Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item 43, notice of appointments, temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Miscellaneous items, item 44, the affront request to speak at committee meeting. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Fontana.
 Item 45, Brownfield cleanup, 837 Bailey. Motion to receive and file items 45 and 46. Second by Council Member White. Item 47, request support and opposition of non-residents carrying firearms. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Farrell. Petitions. Item 48, use 376 grant for outdoor dining. Motion to send to ledge, city planning board, and public works. Second by Council Member Windy. Item 49, use 225 Lexington for outdoor dining. Motion to send to ledge and city planning board. Second by Council Member Franzen.
 Committees. Civil Service. Item 1. Appoint Junior Data Control Clerk. Motion to approve items number 1 through and including number 8. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 9. Notice of Promise. Temporary Provisional Permanent. Motion to receive a 5. Second by the Majority Leader. Community Development Committee. Item 10. Report of Sale 307 Chelsea.
 motion to approve second by council member Fontana 11 reconstruction of the Trico plant motion to receive and file second by council member Wyatt legislation committee item 12 appoint member to the Commission on citizens rights motion is to receive and file second by council member Wingo item 13 mobile food truck
 Items 13 and 14, motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, Property Manager License, Jonathan Akers. Items 15 and 16 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit both of those items. Second by Council Member Wilde.
 Adam, 17. Used car dealer 742 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions 17 and also approve with conditions number 18. Second by the Majority Leader. Adam, 19. Used 681 Fillmore. That one is approved. Second by Council Member Clunton. Adam, 20. Used 322 West Ferry to operate a restaurant. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member, by the Majority Leader.
 And 21, use 541 Fillmore, minor repair shop. 29, motion to deny. It was also denied in the planning board. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Do we need a reason? No.
 Can you state a reason for the record, or is it because of the planning board? It was the applicant never showed up to the legislation hearing nor to the planning board. Plus, there was considerable neighborhood testimony at the planning board and the legislation committee in opposition to this because of the proximity to residential homes. Got it. State that for the record, please. Yes.
 Next item. Item 22, use 2157 South Park. 22 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Seconded by President Brooks. Item 23, use 402 Connecticut, outdoor dining. 23 and 24 both are approved with condition.
 All right, 23 and 24. Second by the majority. Item 25, granting retroactive membership to the New York State Retirement System. 25 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by the president. Probe 10.
 and 26 period food safety education program for deli stores 26 motion to adopt second by councilman y and 27 application for landmark site 794 potomac 27 also originally came without recommendation the motion is now to approve second by the majority and 28 introduction of unified development ordinance motion to receive and file second by councilman
 So can we have a motion to revisit item 27? Motion to revisit item number 27. All right. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. Corporation Council doesn't want you to state something like that.
 Thank you. I'm having some computer difficulties. I was trying to pause it. We got you. 794 Potomac was nominated to be landmark. It had three different public hearings at the Preservation Board. At all three hearings, the Preservation Board said that it met five of the nine criteria required to landmark a building. Over 150 of the residents in the neighborhood signed a petition in support of the landmarking and proposed.
 We have the motion to approve, which I believe was already made. Right. Yes. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item. Resolutions. Item 50, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt items 50 and 51. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 51A, lay file, investigate Oak Grove. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Can I revisit number 26 in legislation?
 Motion to revisit item 26 and my customer in front channel is before I would like to read adopt the resolves and leave the rest In legislation so the remainder really sure all right motion now is to adopt the resolves and the remainder to legislation I'm a consumable friends. I think that's I don't have the sorry come on. I'm fine town Yeah, thank you very much if we could an item number 51 is it no no what was the 51 a if we could I?
 adopt the results, send the remainder to legislation. That'd be helpful. Adopt the results, send the remainder to legislation. Adopt the results, remainder to legislation. Item 51. Thank you. Perfect. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 52, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479, Traffic. Motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Mouad. Item 53, Identifying Antiquated Sections of the Buffalo City Charter. Motion is sent to legislation. Corporation Council Economic Development permits an inspection.
 All right. And there's a second by council member, there is a substitution there. And just so for the record, the substitution changes the Sunday activities. It's actually section 425.1. And basically, the law right now.
 states that you cannot have activities in the City of Buffalo on Sunday until after 2 p.m. There's not supposed to be any sporting events. There is not supposed to be any theatrical performances, recital dancing, or motion pictures in the City of Buffalo or any other exhibits. So anybody right now who has a sporting event, goes to the movies or shows a movie, is actually outside of the law.
 And then there is the law of glue. It's not supposed to be self-help in any of the stores. Not only do you go to almost any store in the city of Buffalo and just buy glue off the shelves, it's only supposed to be sold to 18-year-olds.
 And spray paint. I think spray paint, they kind of try to, some stores try to enforce this, but other than that, you're not supposed to be able to self-serve glue. Or markers. Wide tip markers. So any of you who sent your children to the store in Buffalo to get school supplies, they need wide tip markers to get to law. So that'll be interesting to hear back from Corporation Council when that comes up before us.
 And the boot blacks. We don't have boot blacks anymore. We have shoeshine guys, but they're supposed to actually have a badge with a number, a shield with a number and all kinds of stuff, and they can't work on Sundays. So I'm combing through the charter right now to look for these kind of antiquated things and bring us into maybe 1999.
 Next item 54 trailblazing sign in honor of Chris O'Neill motion to approve second by Councilor, the love of a 55 waiver fees for Buffalo City swim racers motion to approve with condition second by council member And comes remember very much we did receive a call from Buffalo swim racers
 They receive money from last year's budget amount, I think $70,000. And they're required to, I guess, get permits or licenses in order to be able to do programs out of Cazenovia Park
 And I think it's unfair that an organization that is being funded by the city of Buffalo through recreation, I think it's different than a one-time event where people are –
 getting licenses or we're waiving fees. In this case, I don't think we should be waiving a fee. I think they should automatically be included. So I did speak to Andy Rabb. We should be getting together to reach out to an agreement where they can use the facility over at the swimming pool so they don't have to pay the fee.
 We're going to waive it this time and hopefully we'll have an agreement between Parks Department and Buffalo Swim Racers so they can provide this service out of Casanova. You made a statement that it was approved with conditions. I'm sorry, let me go back to it was approved.
 Just approve. Just approve. I just want to mention that it's not like any other fees that we waive that's a one-time thing. This is a program that's being provided out of Cazenovia Park or the swimming pool over there and they're treated like events.
 And they're really getting funded to provide a service out of that location. So a special condition on this. Right. So we just have to have an agreement with the Parks Department and Buffalo Swim Racers. Not a problem. All right. Next item. Item 56, waive fees, Castro Family Reunion. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Furlow. Item 57, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Frenza. Item 58, Commissioner of Deeds.
 Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committee. Look, there's another item. 59. That was 51A, the late file from... Well, that's 50... 51A. That's 51A? Yes, sir. We adopt for the Fontana investigation of Oak Grove? Yes, sir. Okay.
 Announcement of community meetings, regular committees, committee on civil service, Tuesday, April 25th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, April 25th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, April 25th, 2 p.m. Councilmember's announcements. Councilmember Fontana. Related to the resolution we did earlier today, the Oak Grove Construction Company requested a public meeting to be held, and we decided to hold the meeting in West Seneca because that's where the...
 proposed use is at 422 Mineral Springs Road in the town of West Seneca. So our good friend Sheila Megan, Council Members Hanley and Hart have agreed to host at their Senior Citizen Center in West Seneca on May 4th. So for people watching in Kysertown, South Buffalo areas, and West Seneca, May 4th will be just a public meeting for the company to talk to the public. There won't be any other officials there other than the council members.
 The town board officials are welcome to come as far as the planning board goes, but that's not going to be a session where it's decided where the item will be taken up. Just a public information session, May 4th, starting roughly around 6 p.m. Every house in the area is going to get a personalized letter from myself, and in West Seneca, the town council members in West Seneca will be doing the same for their constituents. This has been a great collaboration between my district, Mr. Kuhn,
 Scanlon's district as well as the two council members in West Seneca, all working together to educate the public on this proposed use. They want to crush cement and rock outside along Mineral Springs Road. I'm against it, the residents are against it, and the zoning does not call for it, so they would need a change in zoning. Today our resolution called on the DEC to investigate the use that's currently going on there, which I think is illegal, and the change of the grade, which could cause flooding downstream from their site.
 And we think it's a bad use. Hopefully the residents come out. I'm sure they will. And hopefully the town board and the planning board all vote against this. And what we don't want to happen is down the road a judge shall overturn the town board's decision.
 So we're trying to make as much noise about this and let every judge in town know that the residents of Kaisertown, South Buffalo, and West Seneca do not want to see outdoor cement crushing in the town of West Seneca on the city line. So it's a little easier when you're a judge not to feel the heat, but in this one, they're going to feel the heat. So thank you. Yes, sir. Any other announcements? Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to invite the residents of the City of Buffalo to come out for our monthly task force meeting for MWBE. It takes place April 24th in room 1417 at 11 a.m. That's MWBE committee meeting, April 24th.
 2017 and room 1417 at 11. I also want to remind the residents of the University District that they can check in with their council member right in their community. I'll be at the daily check cashing on Wednesday, May 3rd from 10 to 3 p.m., not a.m., not a.m.,
 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. right on Bailey. They can check in. They don't have to have an appointment. Any of their concerns, they can stop in and see. And, you know, you started that. I want to follow behind you. I had one over at the Daily Planet in North Buffalo, and it worked out really, really well. So I'm going to do another one, and I'll do another one on Main Street. But this one is going to take place May 3rd right at the Bailey Check Cashing, 3101 Bailey Avenue from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
 Third thing is our third annual University United Festival. We are looking forward to a great event on Saturday, June 10th.
 We're going to have a parade this year from 10 a.m. to 11. I'm going to be making this announcement at every meeting. This is a really important event for my district. We had, and for a long, long time, we didn't have events in our district. Now we have one. And we're really celebrating. I want to thank UB for their partnership with the Viet Rotary Field. And this year's artists, we have Lainey Williams and Drew Hill. And it's free.
 Free. Free. Again, Saturday, June 10, 2017, We Are One, third annual University United Festival. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? All right. Hearing none, close the adjournment. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. We adjourn.