Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrell-Leto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scalin. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge.
 to the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our
 We are glad to be joined by the Reverend Dr. James A. Lewis, who is a pastor in our city. He is also the overseer of the Western New York District of the Full Gospel Baptist Church Fellowship. He's also the head of our Zoning Board of Appeals for the city for many years through several administrations and now the retired chaplain of the Erie County Medical Center and still a member of the Erie County Medical Center.
 the chaplain for the Buffalo Police Department. We welcome him for our invocation. To be in City Hall. We thank God for all of you that serve in your respective places, and we ask for God's blessings to be upon you at this time.
 Gracious Father, thank you for blessing us with these great leaders who are concerned about the welfare of our community. We thank you for giving our governmental leaders wisdom to identify and courageously address concerns that impact our nation, our city, and our lives. Thank you for blessing their lives, their families, strengthening them. Lord, your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. You rule throughout all generations.
 You always keep your promises. You're gracious in all you do. You help the fallen and lift those bent beneath their loads. The eyes of all that look to you are in hope. We give them their food as they need it. And when you open your hand, you satisfy their hunger and thirst and every living thing.
 Lord, we praise and bless you in the holy name forever and forever. Always remember that John Maxwell told us a great leader's courage is to fulfill his vision comes from passion and not position. Thank you for allowing us to come to Resurrection Sunday and live through Dingus Day. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Lewis. Councilmember's memorial. Councilmember Wingo.
 Mr. Chair, today we'd like to recognize the life and the legacy of Reverend Philip Houston Hutchins, Sr., who was in a category all by himself. He is one who will be sorely missed by the entire community of the city of Buffalo and will be missed by the faith-based community, particularly the Baptist community, especially when it came time for devotion.
 He was a praise and worship leader, and he loved to lead in song. He had one of the most unforgettable voices. The man could preach, he could pray, and he could sing. I think somebody out of a home-going service said he was a triple threat, and that he absolutely was. I remember Reverend Hutchins when I was a little boy at New Zion Baptist Church at 318 High Street.
 And he was a servant then. He was a servant all through his life. And he was the kind of person who brought levity to most situations. And I really appreciate the friendship that I had with Reverend Hutchin over the years, particularly when we were at the minister's conference, Buffalo. He wouldn't want to sing devotion unless I was there.
 And I appreciate him for allowing me to place such a special part in his life. There are myriad videos of Reverend Hutchins and myself partnering up together for the Citywide Revival every year. We fought to make sure that he did not lose his spot.
 singing at the citywide revival every year. I will absolutely and unequivocally miss Reverend Hutchinson as well as the faith-based community here in the city of Buffalo, the residents, and of course his eight children. I know that Josh said that they were the Fab Five who lived here in Buffalo. They're the great eight, and that consists of Brian Phillips, Phillip Jr., Nicole, Jermaine, Josh,
 Nadia, Nadia, and I'm missing one, Venetta. So we thank God for the family and we wish that God will continue to wrap his arms of love around them and give them peace through this trying time because there is no experience that you will ever experience like losing a father that you were close to.
 So my heart goes out to the family, and I hope that the city of Buffalo embraces them with all the love and care that we have. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. My asking for the prayers for.
 two incredible people who lived in my district. The first one, Robert Harper lost his son, Leona is the sister and nephew. Brian Harper passed, 33-year-old young man who had just got a promotion. Leona said that this is a young man that
 takes any negative and he puts a smile on his face and he makes a positive. So we're going to miss this young man and my prayers are with Bob and his children. And also I lost a incredible woman, a black club leader from the Minnesota Black Club, Evine James Brown.
 didn't know about Yvonne's history, started as a young woman at UB and was an organizer then and a dancer. She became a teacher over at Performing Arts when it first opened and at her home going,
 It was so many people that talked about how she impacted their lives. As a matter of fact, my last meeting with her was to address the issues of her block in our city as it relates to absentee landlords. And we are pushing for increasing fines because of her leadership. I know her husband, Greg, is going to miss her because they were a tag team.
 Many times I would have conversations and Greg was an attorney. And so I know his heart is broken. He was married to this woman for 43 years. And so our hearts are broken because we're going to miss her leadership and her love and care for her community. So I'm asking for the city of Buffalo to keep them in their prayers. Thank you. Council Member Nookowski.
 thank you mr president i would like to us to all hold the name um in our prayers for jill beck who was the unofficial queen of kerry street she had a beautiful garden and was one of the um you know the most uh visited uh members of garden walk because of her her artistic and thumb and um ability to garden and to grow beautiful flowers and welcome to everybody and the filmwork district um to her backyard thank you anyone else
 Hearing none others, I echo for Reverend Doctor. Just recently, Philip Hutchin, Sr., many of his children belonged to the True Bethel Church and known his children since they were children.
 babies. It was a whole lot of them. We thought it was a whole lot of them then when they were so small, but echoed the words of Council Member Wingo in his contribution to our city. I know that we, this is the United States of America, but I feel remiss. We do not remember hundreds of people who have lost their lives in Ukraine. Daily, continuing as we speak,
 um tragically children husbands wives shopkeepers we pause these chambers for a moment of silence for all of them and for the brave people of ukraine who have lost their lives in the last few weeks we pause in these chambers to remember all of the names have been called we pause for a moment of silence thank you
 We have a presentation by Council member Brian J. Thank you, Council President. April is Autism Awareness Month. Today we've invited a couple of representatives to join us from Autism Services Inc. Can I ask that Todd and Neil from Autism Services come down and join me at this time?
 We put together a proclamation in honor of Autism Awareness Month and just wanted to read a little bit of that. Whereas Autism Services, Inc. is the only agency in Western New York who solely serves autistic people by providing a variety of individualized programs and services to support children, adults and their families.
 This program uses theatrical presentations, musical performances, and art exhibitions to allow the population at Autism Services Inc. to engage with the public, facilitate communication, and socialization, all while increasing awareness.
 We, the members of the Buffalo Common Council, hereby proclaim that Autism Services Inc. continues to grow, go above and beyond to raise awareness and empower the members of the autism community in our city. We celebrate your commitment and encouragement to support the rights of people who are on the autism spectrum to become full participants in society. So at this time, I'd like to offer you guys an opportunity to say some words.
 First, I just want to thank everyone for recognizing the program and for having us here this afternoon. I put in the honor of having people with autism have their own voice. I have Neil Sanders speak on behalf of Autism Services. Thank you.
 Hello everyone and good afternoon. My name is Neal Anthony Sanders. We would like to thank the Common Council for this recognition of our arts program at Artism Services. The art program, which was created by longtime staff member Veronica Federal Coney back in 2002.
 Our long time teaching artists, Todd Lesmeister, started the same year and has been with us for almost two decades, otherwise known as 20 years. Our program is an individual driven program that works to build the strengths and interests of each of our artists. Our artists work has been shown in many galleries in the Western New York area.
 including Hallways Big Orbit and the Birchfield Penny. Their work has also been exhibited in galleries in such cities across the United States of America as Toledo, Ohio, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Erie, Pennsylvania, and New York City, New York. Once again, on behalf of Autism Services,
 I personally would like to thank you for helping us educate the entire community and about autism so that we can achieve acceptance and awareness, our diverse population.
 all year around, especially into the early, early part of the 21st century. And as we head into the third year of the 20s, I just want to take a moment to tell you that it is 2022, and we are in the 22nd year of the 21st century. And not only that, we are in the third decade of the 21st century. Thank you all. Enjoy the rest of the meeting.
 Thank you very much. Do you want to see a picture? Great. Thank you so very much. Thank you, Neil, for such a great speech.
 On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Councilmember Wyatt, the minutes of stated meeting held on April 5th, 2022 are approved. Councilmembers, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are in front of you? Seeing no objections to any of the late files, we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us. And I've taken away your right to pause the meeting to review any item that you may have. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. We are going from the top.
 Item number one, emergency notification for USS The Sullivans. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Councilmember Noah Kosti. Item number two has been withdrawn. Item number three, appointments to the Erie County Board of Health. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number four, appoint Director of Urban Affairs. Motion to send to civil service items four, five, and six. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number seven, inter-fund loans.
 Motion to send to finance, items 7 and 8. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number 9, 2022-2023 Budget Hearings and Workshop Tentative Schedule. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 10, change order for MLK Casino, Kitchen, and Fireplace. Motion to approve items 10 through 14. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Through 14? Through 14. Okay. Put on a second. It is 14.
 14 is not going to CD. Mr. Chairman, Council Member Rasheed Wyatt had some concerns and his concerns were satisfied. Good. So motion is now to approve. Thank you, sir. So the marked agenda says CD, but we're now approving. So that stands. Thank you.
 Item number 15, appoint equipment operator permanent. Motion to send civil service items 15 and 16. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 17, permission to accept hot dog bill, bill out systems and fan kit donations. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 18, appointing our Deputy Corporation Council. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item number 19, Dance Hall License 763 Main Street. Motion to send to Legislation. Second by Council Member Villalba. Item number 20, Full Store License 257 Forest Avenue. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Conditions be provided by the District Council Member-in-Law.
 Item number 21, mobile food truck Breezy Bowls. Motion to approve items 21 and 22, if there are no objections. Second by Councilmember Gallambe. Item number 23, restaurant dance license 253 Allen Street. Motion to send legislation items 23 and 24. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 25, appoint deputy commissioner. This is a late file. Would you like to send it to civil service? Civil service. Councilmember Bowman, you want to move this?
 Second by council member Bowman. Item number 26, appoint administrative assistant. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 27, BSA board attendance. Motion to receive and file items 27 through 30. Second by council member Noah Cousins.
 Item number 31, appoint park utility work permanent. Motion to send to civil service items 31 and 32. My council member, Fairlough. Item number 33, appoint legislative aid. Motion to adapt items 33 through 35. Second by council member, Columbeck. Ms.
 Miscellaneous, item number 36, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board. Motion to receive and file items 36. 37 is a late file. This is a report we can receive and file that as well. 38 to receive and file second by Council Member White. Item number 39. I'm sorry, Council Member White, you had a floor.
 I just wanted to speak on item number 37, the BFSA. All right. I know, Council President, we had the BFSA in, and I know Council Member Nowakowski, we went and talked about a lot of the things that we would like to see from the BFSA as it pertains to the budget. I don't know if they reached out to us or reached out to you to have a conversation because we asked them while they were here that we could use their assistance and help
 as we prepare for the budget. So again, if we can have chief of staff reach out to them to see where they are, because we wanna take them up on the offer. I hope they take us up on our offer. We wanna work closer with them. I think again, we have a great deal of funding in our budget right now, but that's not gonna last. And we need to be putting something in place that will sustain us.
 And so we could use their expertise and insights to help us in making those decisions. So we really would like them to reach out. I know we're going to start getting the reports regularly. They're going to send them to the chief of staff.
 But we need their expertise. And so we want to reach out to them and make sure that we can get that. Absolutely. And I think we talked about what they're required to do before budget, which really comes in sometime right on time or, you know, not enough time to be able to really utilize that information for an organization that is taking over a million dollars of our money.
 So I do think that that is important. It would also be interesting to know whether they have filled the seats that are empty so that they have enough people that they can have a quorum. So we will direct Chief of Staff.
 Also, we have asked Chief of Staff to begin a running, as we had with the former Chief of Staff, of those things that we have asked for so that we don't get lost and it doesn't get lost, but we keep up on it. Thank you. Thank you. Item number 39, helping Black students feel safer by embracing cultural identity. Motion is sent to Education Committee. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Petitions item number 40 special use 125 and look for tavern outdoor dining motion is sent to legislation city planning board items 40 to 42. Councilmember, you're a little submission list civil service item number one senior counselor typist motion is to approve items one through and including five or to receive and file that sorry. Okay. Majority Leader Revere.
 Finance, item number 6, Certificate of Necessity for Capital Projects. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Item number 7, ECIDA Boundary Funding. Motion to approve 7 and 8. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 9, Buffalo Urban Development Corporation Miranda of Understanding. Motion to recommit. All right, motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Villalobos. Item number 10, December 2021 Cash Flow Report. Seconded by Council Member Villalobos.
 Motion to receive in file number 10, all the way to and including
 43. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Community Development, item number 44, reported sale, 21 spies. Motion is to deny. Motion to deny and the reason is stated here in the record. Second by Councilmember Wynne. Item number 45, petition to reroute Dingus Day Parade. Motion to receive and file items 45 through and including 58. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Legislation item number 59 ordinance amendment for chapter 437 taxi cab deliveries and sightseeing buses. Motion to approve item 59 and to approve item 60 with conditions. Second by council member Columbus. Item number 61 special use permit 2227 South Park for tobacco. Motion is to deny. Motion to deny and the district council member provide the reason in writing.
 Resolutions. Item number 43, fee waiver for Flag Day Parade, School 54. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough. Item number 44, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 44 and 45. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 46, EID Prayer and Community Meeting Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 47, permission to the Pride Center of Western New York to hang flags for Pride Month. Is this an approved? Yes. Or is it an adapt? Because it doesn't have to go to. You can adapt. Motion to adapt. Second by, who is this from? Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 48, Councilmember Scalin is excused from 4-19-22 meeting. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 49, Pajo Research and Monitoring. Motion to adopt the results, remainder to CD.
 All right, second by Council Member Bowman. This item is special to my heart because we get a lot of calls in our office, at least for potholes all during the year, winter, spring, summer, a lot of claims that happen.
 And then we have a lot of accusations that one side of town has more potholes than another side of town. So I think that data is important.
 information is power. So we're asking for information from 311. So it's important that people call in pothole complaints to 311. And what I was told is that in order for a claim actually to be considered incorporation, council can tell me if I'm wrong or prove that there has to be a written correspondence into the city about a pothole, not just 311.
 Correct. So a lot of times people think that if they call 311, that then triggers if someone else then has an accident or has vehicle damage, and it doesn't. We're dealing with constituent right now. But if what we're asked for is every month, the 311 data specifically
 where those potholes were called into be provided to the council. And then also is asking for specifically where the Department of Public Works goes out to to patch potholes.
 Then working with council staff, we can build a kind of map to find out whether we have one section of town with more, one section of town with less, and then working with public works to see whether we have an underneath the street problem as we do in the fruit belt because we get not just sinkholes. I mean, not potholes. We get sinkholes. Half of a street sinking in.
 What came up earlier is that this council, and I remember asking for it in the budget, as for, I called it a potholes hour. 2019, it was in the budget. I'm not sure, and Commissioner Finn is out right now, but I'm not sure of whether that position was ever filled. The last we talked about it, it hadn't been filled and they were looking for someone to fill that position. One of the biggest problems about potholes in some areas of town
 is not only the freeze and thaw, but also utilities going into the streets and plumbing issues from houses. In the winter, most of those companies cannot get a hold of blacktop, so they are allowed to fill the hole with concrete, which is only supposed to be temporary.
 What happens is many of those folks do not come back in the spring, take out the concrete, and then repair the street. And I think the data will show, I think the data will show that in some of the poorest communities, that occurs more. Just because people don't know that their contract and many of the people in some of the houses are renters.
 landlord doesn't live there, landlord doesn't say to the plumbing company, come back, pull this concrete out, put the blacktop in the way it's supposed to. So you end up with certain sections of town with many more potholes. I think the data will show. And I could be wrong, but without the data, it is very hard to make changes. And so thank you for that.
 sending that forward. So we're asking for that data to begin one month from today. Council Member, go on. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I agree with you in many regards, although I think that we'll see that the entire city has been decimated. I think the biggest problem is gonna be that people don't trust 311. They don't call in.
 I know that in my district, we were doing some research on the potholes and I'll make up a street. You know, there was 14 potholes on the one street. The crew came out and they filled four of them.
 it ended up when we followed up it was because those four addresses had been called into 311 they didn't fill the remaining potholes because they then had to get to the next you know they had a list of 100 or whatever and so it's like you know you sort of shake your head but at the same time
 you know, if people weren't calling in every single pothole with every single address. And I can sort of understand in a, you know, catch 22 Kafka-esque sort of a way, why they only filled the four that were on their list, because if they don't get to the other ones, then they're going to be told what took you so long, you know? So I think that that's, at least that's one of the issues that we've had in North. You know, I also would love to see the city stat be brought back, you know,
 in the city. I remember when that first came in 15 years ago or so, one of the things was, was I think there was a 48 hour pothole guarantee and it actually worked because they concentrated on that. And, you know, one of the things, and once again, I'm only speaking from my district, but I have a feeling,
 In all of our districts, this is true. You know, it's those little things like potholes driving down the street and hitting the potholes on a regular basis, more so than the bigger issues, you know, that only affect maybe one block or one neighborhood or whatever. But it's that constant hitting potholes, that constant little nagging quality of life issues that aggravates the heck out of people. Those are the calls that I get to my office. You know, so, you know, I would love to see that 48-hour pothole guarantee. Yeah.
 brought back. I think that that would be something that would assist us. And I drive through almost all the districts in the city of Buffalo, and there's certain streets that are pretty nice in all of our districts. And there's other ones where it's like,
 you know, I try not to go down them. Tonawanda Street in my district, Evelyn in my district, there's two houses, as you were mentioning about the work being done. There's two houses that had work done and the street needs to be repaved, but they keep putting it off because they're trying to get the property owner to fix the holes in front of their property because they're afraid that, oh, we're going to get the street done and then they're going to come out there and they're
 I'm supportive in general of this. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And Council Member Wingo has to be added. Council Member Wyatt has to be added in caucus. Council Member Bowman has to be added. Council Member Nowakowski, Council Member Rivera is asked. I think it's everybody who wants to be added. Council Member Wingo, you have the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a very, very important issue as we all see that Buffalo has the tendency of having streets with potholes because of our winters. This is something that is unavoidable, but I believe the content communication with the city and 311 with this common councilman creating some type of overlay that we can see where all the potholes are will be very, very beneficial to us and where we actually reallocate or allocate some of our CIS streets at the end of the year so that they can be used.
 be done some of the things that we want done we don't know unless
 We know, right? So we want to make sure that this is something that the folks in our community and districts know that we are taking very seriously. And I appreciate you for allowing me to be added to this resolution because this is something even on streets that maybe have only four or five houses. Folks on those streets still deserve to not have to tear up their cars, get in the driveways. So, again, even though that this is something that is inherent to the city of Buffalo streets, being that we have, you know,
 winters as we do and the salt that we use and all of the science behind it all. Can't avoid it, but at least we can be more proactive regarding it. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Absolutely. And one of those things about the streets being opened up, and I proposed it to the previous commissioner, and I think early on in Commissioner Fenn's when he was hired, is we have to follow up on when, because to open up the streets, you need a permit.
 And I don't think that a utilities are different. They kind of get away with a lot more than what other folks can get away with. But when a plumber opens up a street, if he's opened up five streets and hasn't repaired any of them and he continues to open up repair, open up streets, he probably won't repair any of them. And that or he or she at the end of the day, we got to find ways to do this better.
 And we got to start with the data. So and I agree with Councilman Golomba. I hope that when we do this, we do find what we have been in the past. People have said it's more potholes over here and over here. So let's see. Let's look at the real facts and find out. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for putting this forward. And I'm glad to be a co-sponsor with you. But at the end of the day, potholes affect our quality of life, plain and simple.
 And it seems as though again, you know, when we instruct folks to do their job and if they're like Councilmember Golombek talked about if there's 12 potholes on one street but you got a 311 call for four, you only need the four, that speaks to the mission of what we are telling our public works folks to do. Because I had this similar situation. I called in where the pothole was, but there were three others connected. They just did the one.
 So, you know, it kind of calls for us to look at this process and how we achieve making sure that these potholes are addressed. And some of it to me, and I don't know, I guess, again, getting the statistics right.
 will help us, but there's potholes that I would think that people should be, the public works should be just driving around, just taken care of. It shouldn't have to take someone to call you to do it. And I know that I've talked to my staff, I'm driving through the district, I will call them and say, hey, there's a pothole, but I gotta get the address because it may be in the middle of the street. And part of it also, as I talked to Commissioner Finn, is how they do the streets and how they pave them. Because in many cases, we see that many of those potholes are started in the scene.
 And so that's where we should be going back to these contractors saying, hey, you got to come back and fix this. But again, we need the public to let us know. And if they got a call 311 or call our officers to let us know, we need to know those things because we have to hold these contractors accountable. In some cases, it may be a defect. But if we never say anything for two years, it becomes a big problem. We have to pay the bill. Thank you. Absolutely. All right. Thank you all for support.
 Item number 50 support percent 72 Sycamore restoration state grant motion to adapt. You want to adapt 51 also motion to that items 50 and 51 second by Council member. No, it's just comes from a mirror. Thank you very much, Mr. President or chairman.
 This resolution making Buffalo a welcoming city is something that the administration has been working on since 2016 when they commissioned a study by the Urban Information Associates.
 Buffalo has always been a welcoming city since the early part of the century when the first settlers came here and afterwards, when the Erie Canal was built and railroads brought Irish and Germans and later as a city became an industrial center, it brought Poles and it brought the Irish or Italians.
 And later after World War I and World War II, African Americans from down South, Hispanics and other immigrants, Buffalo continues to be a destination for immigrants today. And the city commissioned this to make city welcoming, to make sure that many of the needs of the new Americans, the new residents that are here,
 received the assistance, whether it was employment, affordable housing, secure housing, policing, language, access, translation, interpretation, health,
 health, making sure that people understood how government worked for them. I think it's very important. And I just want to commend the administration for ensuring that this study was done. And part of the study recommended that we pass an ordinance, not just a resolution, making Buffalo a welcoming city to ensure that it was codified and there were protections in place for new Americans that continued to come from all over the world.
 So today we're gonna pass this resolution with the understanding that we'll be filing an ordinance amendment, making sure that Buffalo is a welcoming and has those protections in place to assist the new Americans, the new refugees and immigrants that are coming to this country. So I just wanna thank the mayor, the administration,
 All of the resettlement agencies and all of the contributors. There's so many of them that Damon college United way. I just want to recognize them for all the work they did and putting this study together is very comprehensive, very in-depth. And it was done while our old director of
 office of New America and Jeff Lazzarine was here. And hopefully we'll be able to backfill that position soon to make sure that they fulfill all of the recommendations that were made in the study. I think the problem right now is that they've only done a few of the recommendations and my phone is like, and they only...
 The city hall is falling apart here. You might want to go back and take that out to take. So the recommendation is that we go back and look at the study and a
 apply the things that they recommended. I want to thank Council Member Nowakowski as well, who has been working on this along with me over the years. I thank the administration for Office of New Americans and the Council for Language Access because we approved all of that. So thank you very much. And we're looking forward to having our staff and law department work on
 ordinance amendment making Buffalo a welcoming city. Thank you very much. Can I join you on this resolution? Pardon me? Can that be added? Yes. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt would like to be added. Council Member Boland would like to be added. Council Member Fairletter would like to be added. That's everybody. Well, everybody, almost. All right, anything else? Thanks, we're moving on. Item number 52, fee waiver for South Buffalo Farmer's Market.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 53, support for eight days of hope citywide. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item 25? Council Member White has the floor and then I'll come back. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, my colleagues who are in support of this resolution. I think eight days of hope is a very, very important organization, the city of Buffalo. They just recently did some...
 work down in the south where they had tornadoes and hurricanes. And this is an organization that is able to bring on 1,500 volunteers. A lot of our processes in helping those in need has so much red tape. So much red tape is unbelievable. I just had a call from a woman who told me she applied for some funding to prepare her home. A year and a half later, she didn't get the funding.
 And now they said that she's over income because it was a year and a half later. Eight Days of Hope can really cut that out of this place, even though their process would be a lottery. But those who are really in need get an opportunity. My district saw what Eight Days of Hope can do in a week, the impact that they make. We do a whole lot of stuff for a whole lot of different people. And some of those people don't live in our city.
 developers and those get what they get sweetheart deals, but the people in need get nothing but frustration. Eight days of hope can help them tremendously. And the dollars that I'm asking for can not only help a core group of people, but also help communities, because when they help one person on the street, they help the people around them.
 Again, they're only asking for dollars for supplies. This doesn't go in their corporate, they're not trying to create a bottom line, they're not having trying to have a surplus, they're not trying to gain a profit, they're trying to help. As Steve Typer says, love and serve. The dollars that we can get here for them will go a long way. Again, I told the story of a woman that lived in my district who was a veteran that couldn't get a single dollar to help get a roof, a veteran.
 She went for several years with a hole in her roof. I mean, literally, I saw it with my own eyes. And our city couldn't help her. Eight Days for Hope can bring hope to those individuals who feel hopeless, that feel like here we got all these millions of dollars and they can't get one.
 So again, thank my colleagues who support this. I know that this will not help the university district because they have a cycle. They're trying to go through every district. But again, I'm supportive of individuals who need help, who need assistance, who are frustrated by the process. And I think eight days of hope can assist them. So again, thank my colleagues who supported this. I'd like to be added to the resolution, I think, that...
 I know that when Eight Days of Hope was in the University District, they did great work recently in the Mastin District. And I know of people in the Mastin District who really couldn't afford, and University District, but personally, some closer situations. Because I grew up in the Mastin District, and they were very thankful. So that's why I'm asking to be signed on. Actually, after looking at some of the amounts that were asked, you know,
 Today I was looking at that that may have to even be increased because of the amount of help that occurs.
 occurs and how they come into communities. I mean, I think all of our communities you've had it Councilmember Ruingo has had it, you know, me and Noakowski are probably fighting Bowman to get it, you know, it's like how do we get it over here, you know, and people may think oh, you know, that this is a council function. It is really not. It is just individuals who want to help and this helps them to get materials, this helps them to do those things to help people. So
 Council Member Bowman. Yeah, I would like to be added Mr. Chair and it would just be so nice to be able to have them in the Lovejoy District. It's one of my highest volume calls in the office is people that need help with their homes and they're working and trying to do it, but that extra 20,000 from a roof, that's just not possible for a lot of people. So I would love an organization like this to be able to help the Lovejoy District. So I'd like to be added. Add him. Council Member Winkle. Mr. Chair, I had a conversation with,
 a very brief conversation with Councilmember Wyatt before our meeting today, which, due to a technicality that I believe we could work out, I was going to suggest to not be added or to vote against this resolution. But as I'm sitting here and I'm thinking about how all the people of Maston District were actually held,
 by eight days of hope without the bureaucracy and how much it's needed for folks to live in houses where the roofs aren't leaking and where it's safe to walk up on the porches. And then what really, really kind of aggravated me as I was sitting here, just listening to Council Member Wyatt, was thinking how everyone ran down to the Naval Park to fix the Sullivan and to advocate for funding for the Sullivans.
 the ship in the naval park that's sinking. Now we don't want any of our amenities to sink. No, of course not. However, there are people who are living in conditions where their houses are sinking
 And I'm thinking to myself, you know, I'm not going to vote against this. As a matter of fact, I'm going to ask if Councilmember Wyatt will allow me to be added to this resolution as well. And I would very much appreciate the ability to help partner to see how we can make sure that all of the processes that we have in place are not, you know, inhibitive for Eight Days of Hope to do what they do.
 as making sure that the process is as equitable as possible to make sure that as many people can get help as possible and the funding needs to be increased then let's increase the funding as well i i i really cannot sit here in good conscience and think of a better reason to spend arp funding on if they should apply then to make sure that folks houses are being rebuilt and being made safe and being made clean
 So that being said, I would really much like to be added this resolution and whatever is necessary moving forward to create the structure by which we can make sure that whoever is
 is working with eight days of hope whatever the process is whatever the structure is let's make sure that it's something that we can use that is not full of bureaucracy help eight days of hope operate the way that they always been operating and to ensure that as many people as possible get help because the folks in mass and district were extremely pleased a lot of folks were let down because of the lottery system but the folks who were helped by volunteers from across north
 In America, between Canada, United States, and all of the states, it was incredible. And just to see that happen in my district firsthand was incredible. And that was right before the pandemic happened.
 We would really pretty much like to be added to this resolution. Thank Council Member Wyeth for being such a strong advocate for Eight Days of Hope. Steve Tiber is a great person. He has a great personality, and I believe that he was called to this work. He was a person who used a lot of his skill sets for the private industry, but he brought all of that skill to the not-for-profit world,
 He's building lives and he's creating hope and instilling hope in our communities. What happened in Madison District, I can't say enough about it. Thank you, Councilmember Wyatt again for your advocacy, your strong advocacy for eight days of hope and allowing me to be added to this resolution. Again, whatever we can do to make sure that this goes through, let's all work together to do that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Next item. Motion to revisit item 25. Motion to revisit item 25, seconded by Council Member Golombek. It's before us. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion is to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 53. I think the call was to, the motion was to adopt, but I think you wanted to send to CD the adopted resolves and send the remainder to CD. Let the record reflect that that was actually an intention and that is what was written in the item.
 All right. Announcement of committee meetings. The follow-up meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th floor of City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend.
 Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, April 26, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, April 26, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, April 26, 2022 at 1 p.m.
 Committee on legislation is Tuesday, April 26, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special committees committee on police oversight is tomorrow, Wednesday, April 20, 2022 at 11 a.m. I just want to read off the budget stuff so we have it out early.
 So, budget, budget hearings will begin Monday, May 9 2022 and following that will be workshops beginning the week of May 16 2022. Alrighty, so that everybody's prepared for it and customer and Wingo budgets. We're done with budgets. Yes. Okay.
 Announcements from, right, just making sure. We got everything done from our end, right? So that's, we miss them. Yes, sir. All right. Council members, announcements for your district. Mr. Chair, just for the record, I want to make sure that I do this before I go home and meet one of the most fierce people that I have in my house.
 which is as of today, a 12-year-old by the name of Janelle Angelique Wingo. I just want to make sure I say happy birthday to my daughter Janelle who turns 12 today. See, I did what I was supposed to do. I acknowledge her birthday in council, so I'm safe. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate it. Did she get a breakfast this morning? I don't know what she got this morning, but I know she got last weekend yesterday. Any other announcements? Hearing no announcements,
 Second by Councilmember Rasheed, N.C. White.