We are live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Here. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Here.
 President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. As we begin our meeting with our Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warren. For my scripture today, I'd like to just pull a sentence from Hosea chapter 2, verse 15.
 This is referring to Israel. And of course, as many of you remember, there was a Buffalo delegation that both Council President and I were part of to Israel. And they're suffering through the COVID crisis there just as we are. This is what the scripture says. I will return her, meaning Israel, her vineyards to her and transform the valley of trouble into a gateway of hope.
 Let me say it again. I'll return her vineyards to her and transform the valley of trouble into a gateway of hope.
 Everyone on the console is well aware of the valley of trouble that we find ourselves in today. As individual districts, as a city, county, state, nation, world, the valley of trouble is indeed all around us. But this scripture talks about the valley of trouble being transformed into a gateway of hope. I heard a phrase a couple of days ago that has just resonated in my spirit.
 The phrase was this, renaissance of hope, renaissance of hope. Let that be like water to dry ground, a renaissance of hope. It's easy to feel hopelessness or fear or panic. And so many of our citizens are there and leaders can join them easily.
 but the gate, the valley of trouble being transformed into a gateway of hope, a renaissance of hope. I want us to be hope bearers, hope spreaders, hope increasers, hope multipliers, not just in our district, but to our city as well. Let's bow in prayer to the God of all hope.
 Father, thank you for your goodness. I thank you for this scripture from Hosea, that you want to transform the valley of trouble into a gateway of hope. Lord, it's easy for all of us to feel the sense of trouble in us and around us. But today we declare out of that will come a new sense, a new deep rooted sense of hope, hope in crisis, hope in trouble, hope in challenge, hope in hope.
 at times when others are finding it difficult. Lord, I pray that that hope will influence the decisions we make, the way we lead. May there be a renaissance of hope in the city of Buffalo. And one of the names that you referred to in the New Testament is the blessed hope. Lord, let that blessed hope be ours today as the council deliberates. We ask all these things in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmembers, are there any memorials today? I do, Mr. President. Councilmember DeLumbeck.
 Thank you. Richard Barkowiak, a very, very nice man from the Black Rock West Hurdle neighborhood. World War II veteran, passed away this week. I knew him from the former St. Florian's Church. Just a nice man, you know, the greatest generation. And also Mordecai Morty Cotman passed away after a lengthy battle with cancer. He's going to be very sorely missed by his family and friends.
 Thank you, Councilmember Golombet. Any others? We remember Don Allen Jr., Donald O. Allen Jr., who worked for the city for many, many years, who really loved what he did for other people. He often traveled with us on disaster relief missions across the country. And then, of course, locally working with us.
 different organizations. He was a member of the United House of Prayer for all people, but he would lend himself out to anyone in the time of need. So remember those. Any others?
 Hearing no others, we always remember our Council President I'm sorry, I couldn't see. I'm on that one screen. Yes, sir. I believe I heard the President Prokosov? Yes, thank you, Council President. The City of Buffalo lost a couple of residents in the past few weeks that we are all very familiar with in South Buffalo. The first being Mary Theresa Mann, who we actually lost as a result of this pandemic.
 unfortunately. Mrs. Mann was the mother of five, the grandmother of 16, the great-grandmother of nine,
 She spent four years as a crossing guard in the city of Buffalo and left an impression on countless people. I have many, many early memories from my childhood of Mrs. Mann as I was friends with her grandkids and actually going to her house in the old first ward. And when I tell you she left an impression on you, she absolutely did. Mrs. Mann was also the mother, the mother-in-law, and the grandmother of several members of the Buffalo Fire Department.
 who serve our city. So obviously they learned a lot from their mother and are giving back to their community. So she is going to be absolutely missed and remembered by her enormous group of friends and her extensive family. Another person that we lost in the South District was Mr. William Griffin, who is the mother of Maureen Higgins, who works in compensation and benefits.
 Mr. Griffin was the father of nine, a very large family here in South Buffalo. He was a proud veteran of the United States Navy having served in World War II. And he is going to be greatly missed by his children and the extensive number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren as well. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? I'm sorry if I don't see you. Yes, Council Member Wyatt. Thank you.
 I just want to ask for the prayers for the passing of one of our chair deacon chair chairmans of our deacon board Um fitzgerald long the passing his father pastor nathaniel long He had a little illness and um, he's going to be with the lord So we pray for him as well as um, one of our members her son passed Um, danetta reed we pray for her and her family as well. Yes, joel pitts
 Anyone else that I'm missing? Yes, Council President. Thank you. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President. We lost in the Lovejoy District, Jeff DeBergolis, who was a longtime, grew up in Lovejoy. He owned Mr. Lovejoy's, which was a popular restaurant.
 on the corner of Lovejoy and North Ogden. So Jeff will be sorely missed, we're thinking of him. And I also wanted to send my condolences to the Allen family. Don Allen was a friend of the Lovejoy district. His father would always hang out in our office for a and stop down. So they will be sorely missed and we're thinking of the family at this time. Thank you. Any others?
 All right, we always remember our men and women who have given their life for the freedom of not only our country, but for the freedom of other countries across this world. We pause in these deliberations for a moment of silence. Thank you. We do have a presentation by Council Member Wyatt.
 It is my honor to acknowledge two individuals who are in the University District, but make a greater impact throughout the city of Buffalo. First, I want to recognize Steve Tiber and his efforts in Eight Days of Hope as they continue to make a difference in the city of Buffalo. A couple of weeks ago, they gave about 7,500 masks.
 in a district where many were affected and he saw a need. And he just did it. He didn't wait for someone to come and find him. He just did it. This past weekend, he gave away almost 1,400 bags of groceries, a week's full of groceries, not just one bag, a week's full.
 That is surely a commendable need during a time that people are in desperate need. And I just thank him so much for the effort that he has given, not just in the university district, but throughout the city. So we just want to recognize him for his efforts. You want to say something, Steve? Steve?
 I just want to say thank you. We love being in Buffalo and enjoy getting to know a lot of you. And we're here for we're here for a while. So we're excited to see what other doors God opens up and appreciate all of you and pray for you guys, all guys and ladies pray for all of you all the time, all the time. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. And also Mr. Brett Bagley, who is the owner of ABC Hardware and has been in business, I think more than 30 years, Brett. And he also has worked tirelessly in the community. He partnered with Steve with the mask that he gave away. He's also since recently a family was in a fatal fire.
 He's picking donations up for him as well. He's providing masks and support to those in the district. He's been a supporter of the residents in the community for a long time. It's just not something that just happened. So we just definitely appreciate the impact that he's been able to make in the University District, but throughout the city. I believe some of you have gotten masks from him. So he was the only one in town
 But he's not only paid where you bought masks, he's also donated. So again, we thank him so much for what he's done and the difference that he makes in the city of Buffalo, especially during this time of pandemic. Thank you, Brett. Thank you. Want to say anything? Yeah, we love the city of Buffalo and if you guys see me, so if anybody needs help, just
 you know, reach out, we'll do everything we can to help you and anything, you know, we try to help out with tents, tables, chairs, whatever you need. And of course, the mask, the hand sanitizer, these type of things, because I don't think this is going away anytime soon. So the good news is that we have new supplies coming in. And we're hoping we're hoping that
 the we'll have normal distribution that there won't be all this air freight that we're paying. So we're hoping that the prices will come down and we'll,
 That's where we're at. So if you need anything, my name is Brett. I'll give you my cell phone number. Anybody that needs it, Wyatt has it. So just ask, okay? Okay. Thanks, guys. Thank you so much, Brett. Thank you so much, Brett and Steve, for, again, making a big difference in our city, especially during this time of pandemic. It's greatly appreciated.
 And I just want to echo, if I can, Councilmember Wyatt, your words. Steve, who of course reached out to everyone about the bags of groceries, and when he told me in those bags of groceries, if it came from a certain church or organization, they put that church's name in the bag, like from that church, and I said to Steve, no, it's just saying it's coming from you.
 He disagreed. He said we have other branding, but he was more concerned about feeding people than getting attention. The same thing with Brett, you know, at the end of the day, we needed masks in our district and I mean, we need them all over the place.
 But we do have some districts where it's pretty hard to find them at all or for people to be able to afford them. And Brett stepped up and we were able to get hand sanitizer and all kinds of gloves, I mean, and the masks. So I think it's an appropriate way to begin our meeting, especially after what the Reverend Dr. Warner has put before us. These two heroes who may not be recognized like some other folks, but they're keeping people.
 and they're keeping them fed. Thank you both. Thank you. Alrighty. So we will continue and we'll see you all soon, Brent and Steve. We'll have to take you out of the meeting now. And we will continue with our meeting. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 14th, 2020 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files?
 hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause this meeting to review an item if you have not had the chance. For the public who is watching by Facebook, welcome. This is right now our new normal and this council has committed
 to transparency, all of our committee meetings are available on Facebook, are available for replay. And for those who need to read them, we will have very soon after each meeting, the transcripts available. I believe I've covered everything that we can go from the top. Item number one, declaration of state of emergency. Can we have the agenda on the screen please? Yes.
 I don't want it on my full screen. If we have it on the full screen, the only trouble is I will not be able to see. So council members, you will have to verbally alert me if you have something you want to speak on because I cannot see you. Item number one, declaration of state of emergency. I apologize. I don't have it on the screen. Does somebody have it on the screen?
 I don't have it on my screen for some reason. If somebody wants to call the items, that's fine. You want me to do it, David? Yeah, why don't you go ahead and do it? Okay. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. I'm sorry, I got discombobulated. Item number two, pilot agreement for Mount Aaron Village. Motion to approve items number two and three.
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. And on this item, this is Mount Aaron Village. The pastor and his partners have worked very, very hard on this project. The Mount Aaron Church has done one other project, much smaller than this one, and after they got their feet wet,
 They are now going to do a much larger project that will include, I believe, some retail space, some medical space right here in the heart of the city, especially in an area that has really waited and wanted development, and that development is starting to happen on the ground.
 Broadway and other areas. So we congratulate the Mount Aaron Church and all of the work. This gentleman had community meetings that I attended that were packed. And I went to one community meeting that was full and unless he stacked the deck, everybody in the room agreed with the development. So congratulations to them. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Yes.
 Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number four, February and March 2020 cash flow report. Motion to send to finance?
 Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number five, City Financial Status Report. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number six, Appoint Internal Audit Administrator. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number seven, Budget Hearing and Workshop Schedules. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Frioletto.
 Item number eight, change in contract city hall improvements. Motion to approve items number eight through 17. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. So Councilmember Justby, it goes all the way up to 19. Okay I couldn't see it. A motion to approve to 19. The motion stands adding to that motion or mending that motion for 18 and 19 to be included also. Next item. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Approved. Next item. Item number 20, appoint laborer.
 Okay, 23, 23, 25, 26 to civil service. Second by council member Fairletter. Item number 27, Seneca 1 parking garage rent transfer. Motion to approve. Second by council member Bowman. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Roll call.
 Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombet? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. It's approved. Next item. Item number 28, City Financial Status Update.
 Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 29, Buffalo SOAR Authority meeting minutes. Motion to receive and file number 29 through 32. Second by Council Member Wingo. Finance Committee, item number 1, permission to enter into contract for school bus, arm, camera services. Motion to approve. Council Member, you can approve too also. Did you move the legislation?
 We're in legislation. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 It's approved. Resolutions item number 33, fee waiver for habitat. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes.
 President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 34, COVID testing in Buffalo. Motion to adopt, sending the rest to community development. Is going to community development with the remainder? Motion to adopt the results and the remainder to community development? Yes.
 second by council member Wingo. And on this item, although we do see that there are some increases in testing, as a matter of fact, council member Wyatt had me on the conference call this morning with an agency who's interested in doing testing, Dr. Glick, Jericho road and others. I don't want to go down the whole list because we'll miss somebody, but others are starting to come to areas that need the testing the most
 And this resolution in which we have filed today continues to encourage that. I don't think that we could have enough testing sites because I believe as we've been told, that's what brings down the curve.
 So this is not in any way saying there are no testing sites. So anybody who receives it, including our county, we don't want somebody to think, oh, they're saying we don't have any. We're saying we need as many as we can, especially in impoverished areas and especially in areas where people do not have the transportation to do a drive through like a fast food.
 a fast food restaurant. You can't just walk up to the drive-through if you don't have a car. You got to be able in some way to be serviced in a different way. So I just wanted to comment on that so people would understand that this council is trying to ensure that the testing sites are all over the city of Buffalo, but especially in those impoverished areas. Anybody else? Okay.
 Next item. Item 35, Ordinance Amendment for Chapter 337, Preservation Code. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Chairman, I'd like to just briefly talk on this one. Absolutely, sir, you have the floor. Chairman, this legislation or this amendment to Section 337 of the Preservation Code was a result of a demolition that occurred in my district
 And I think everybody's familiar with 184 West Chirico.
 Our staff and Councilmember Bowman and I believe even Councilmember Golumbik had some concerns with the demolition that had occurred. We are looking to strengthen our preservation standards in the city of Buffalo. And what we've proposed, and this is only a proposal, we're going to vet it. People have contacted us via phone, via internet, and they're concerned with regards to...
 the amendment that we're proposing today. It is only a proposal. We will
 We will have committee meetings once we're back in City Hall where they'll have a chance and opportunity to speak on their concerns with regards to any part of the changes that we're making. But it will give the Presentation Board 45 days to process a landmark application for the historic properties subject to demolitions. And the other thing it does, it pauses demolitions.
 while it's being considered by the Common Council or the Legislative Committee. So there is a pause. We want to make sure that we have an opportunity to preserve buildings that should be preserved and landmark. We're looking to improve on the standards that we have right now in the city of Buffalo. And I just want to thank Council Member...
 Nowakowski, his staff, central staff, our attorneys, and Golombic for certainly making this an issue in the very beginning. So thank you very much. Can I just have a moment, Mr. President?
 I just would like to echo the sentiments of the majority leader. I did hear from various community members all the way up until 155 of this meeting, and I completely hear all sides. And I just want to reiterate that this is going to be sent to committee for a full discussion, and we look to improve this ordinance to make sure that what happened on West Utica never happens again, and that we have the best code possible. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. And staff, you're doing a great job, but when we're having discussion, can you go back to the screen so that I can see the other council members? I really, really appreciate that. Anything else on this item? All right. Thank you much. Next item. Item 36, local law intro number one, amendment chapter 20 and budgeting. Okay, motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Thank you.
 And Mr. Chair, if I can speak on this item? You certainly may. Thank you, sir. I put this item forward, and I thank my colleagues who have supported it, because we are in a situation right now of a pandemic. We are in a financial crisis more than what we were before. As I looked through the financial reports and I looked at the last year's audit, the amount that we budgeted of $509 million, we missed by $17 million.
 So we've had some challenges in our finances over the last couple of years. Putting this forward in no way states that we're going to lay people off or we're going to do something totally drastic. We should have done something a couple of years ago and we didn't. I don't want to point any fingers, I don't want to lay any blame, but we're in leadership. It's our responsibility to take the lead. And I think it's time for us during this crisis
 to get our financial house in order. And I know it doesn't feel good. It's not the best situation. But I think our governor has said, in crisis, sometimes you get the body politic to change. And we definitely need a change. Over the last three years, we have not hit our revenue numbers.
 The 17, almost 18 million from last year during our deliberations, we talked about our concerns of the revenues not being there, not being part of the trend that we would see. Perfect example, we asked that $8 million be set aside or budgeted for real estate. We didn't come close to that $8 million number.
 But we are short. But again, I think we have to come into grips that we have to take some real strong measures if we're going to save the city and not go back to a control board. Going back to a control board is not an option. It should not be something that we can revel in to say, oh, we were part of it, but it's something that we need to avoid at all costs.
 So this is nothing but something going forward to have a conversation, to put something in place that hopefully will stabilize our city and make some right decisions so that we can make sure that we have people employed by the city gainfully employed. And not just people that we are abandoning ship and not putting something in place that, again, we can continue this great conversation.
 blessing that the city has come into as far as rebranding our city and being the city that is just a great city of good neighbors thank you mr president if you have time yep sir councilman scanlon you're you had a floor can you all hear me yes councilman scanlon you're muted nope we're not hearing you we're gonna wait until we can hear you
 uh looks like we lost council member scanlon i'll send him a re-invite to the meeting right now okay mr president i had some comments councilmember golembeck you have the floor thank you mr president um you know i will i i'm going to vote no on this uh uh resolution um for a few different reasons um one of the things is is that i will be honest and say that i'll take some of the responsibility over the past several years of not fighting harder for a fund balance reserve
 But the reality is, is that I don't think any of us would have wanted to go to the mayor and say, Mayor, let's raise taxes. You know, because that's his purview, and we did not do that. The one thing that the council can do during budget is make cuts from the budget. We can't make additions, but we can make cuts. Right.
 Once again, I suppose I'll take responsibility for that because I wasn't leading the charge with trying to make cuts from the budget so that there would be money that would be put into a fund balance account.
 I think that, you know, discussing something would be one thing, but when I looked at the resolution when it came out last week, it looks like, you know, it's ready for adoption. We could have actually, if there was five or six votes today, we could have voted on it and it could have been passed as is, except for probably some minor technicalities with it. It includes this year's budget.
 for trying to do an increase in the reserve balance for this year. I think it's very interesting, and I was expecting it, that the Comptroller did a letter to us today in which I believe she said that we're anticipating a $35 million shortfall in this year. I don't think trying to find any money for the reserve
 You know, for reserves at this point would be wide, fiscally prudent. At the same time that we're trying to scramble for $35 million, where's that money going to come from? You know, I don't think that we are going to be able to find it without doing something drastic this year. And that's not with the budget that's coming up that we're going to get in the next couple of days. Okay.
 You know, I was here back in 2003 when we had the last and perhaps one of the worst, if not the worst, budget meltdowns in the city of Buffalo's history. And I'm going to make a prediction right now that this is going to be much, much worse.
 This is going to be very, very problematic. I think that, you know, basically, you know, what we should be doing rather than rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic, you know, the icebergs hit, we're already floundering. We've got to start bailing. We've got to start making some very, very serious
 decisions with this budget, making cuts and trying to find as much money as possible that we're going to be able to cut, you know, to directly impact our budget as is. And I don't think that we have the luxury right now to be able to look at a reserve fund. And I don't think that honestly, especially with being having to do the budget meetings and everything,
 online, it's going to be very, very difficult. So I'm in the negative on this. I think that this is something that perhaps we should talk about, you know, down the road, you know, so yeah, I'm guilty of punting at this point. But I think that the budget crisis is far, far more important that we have right now saving jobs of people saving services for the residents of the city of Buffalo is much more important than putting together a reserve account. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Council President? You're welcome, Council Member Golombet. Councilor, the chair recognizes Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. As I stated yesterday during our caucus meeting, I am greatly opposed to taking any action or having any sort of conversation right now that entails diverting any revenues from the upcoming budget and setting it aside for future use while we continue to be at the mercy of this global pandemic. We do not know how long this situation will drag out
 And we should not be setting aside funds for a future financial crisis when we are in the middle of one. As we should all know how difficult the decisions that could arise from this COVID-19 outbreak could be. As I stated yesterday, you know, Albany is telling us to anticipate up to a 30% reduction in state aid. Our sales tax revenues are being drastically impacted.
 Just a few days ago, we had the Senate Majority Leader in Washington telling municipalities they should consider filing bankruptcy because he's not inclined to provide assistance to states and municipalities. Now, I know today he said he'd be open to it, but he also indicated major caveats tied to that disclosure. So although I'll continue to hope for that assistance, I am not incredibly optimistic it'll happen anytime soon. But I pray that I'm wrong on that front.
 If we don't receive this federal assistance, the implementation of a policy like this would exacerbate the problems created by the pandemic by pulling revenues out of the budget that would pay for services and or salary and leading to additional reduction in city services or additional layoffs throughout the city of Buffalo workforce.
 You know, we see municipalities all across the country bracing for a 10, 20, 30% reduction in their workforce. And make no mistake about it, that if we do not receive that assistance, we're going to be in the exact same painful situation. We do not know how long this ordeal will play out. We don't know if there will be a second wave of this health scare and whether the corresponding safety guidelines, which have absolutely created a safer environment for everyone, still impact the city financially would be reinstated.
 or reinstitute it. You know, enacting a policy like this right now, I think it makes the council appear out of touch with what's taking place and the reality of what's taking place in the country and on the ground here in the city of Buffalo. A couple comments were made yesterday during our caucus about the fact that it's current and past policies that have created this situation. But when I look at the numbers, it seems as though we, just a couple of weeks ago, city of Buffalo was trending towards a surplus this year.
 And this health issue crippled the economy, not just locally, but obviously across the world. It wasn't our budgeting this year or last year that created this problem. I didn't hear the United States Senate Majority Leader last week calling out Buffalo and referencing their issues. He referenced municipalities across the country, states across the country that are in incredibly difficult financial situations.
 This is hit communities across the country. It is not an issue of improper budgeting by the administration or a lack of oversight on our part. This is an unforeseen global pandemic, which is, as I mentioned, really crippled the world's economy. Also, the narrative that
 was being spun by a couple council members at yesterday's caucus that no one's calling for this to take place in the 2020-2021 budget. That this is just a conversation, that no one's saying, you know, that we're looking to do anything this year, that we're not looking to vote on a policy but just have a conversation is factually inaccurate.
 I understand that conversations have been taking place for a few months regarding the fund balance policy, and I'm well aware that the city charter calls for the establishment of a fund balance policy.
 But this is not a group of talking points or a resolution to kick off a conversation that was filed. This is a local law presented to the Buffalo Common Council by city council members, just filed this past Thursday, not a few months ago when conversations were taking place. Calling for the establishment of this policy and for it to be enacted with this upcoming budget.
 It's not asking for a conversation to take place. It's a local law presented to a legislative body. And it's really, I think it's completely inaccurate to spin it any other way. So with that being said, I'm a hard no on this local law at this time. But I would absolutely be more than willing to and open to, in fact, eager to discuss ways to address our reserves in future budget years. So thank you, Council President.
 You are welcome. Anyone else? Council President, Council Member Dave Rivera. We'll go from Dave Rivera to Council Member Friar Leto after Dave Rivera is finished. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We're not just looking at last year and the year before that.
 we're looking at a longer period of time where we've gone through over a hundred million dollars in reserve funds and we're we're the ones that actually voted for them. The mayor sent his recommendation to this common council and this common council approved it. It's the fact that we don't have a reserve fund it's each one of our responsibility and I think it's our responsibility to make it right.
 And I disagree totally. We are having a conversation. You may... Yes, we submitted a...
 legislation. But that legislation does not have full effect until we deliberate, until we vote on it, until it becomes law. It is a conversation. It is an exchange of ideas. It is a debate that happens in between. That is the process. That is legislation. That is government. That is how we enact laws.
 We just don't say what we're sending it, we're approving. I don't think anybody was ready to approve it as it was yesterday or tomorrow. And I don't even know if this will take impact this year. But one thing I'm happy to hear.
 is that two council members that are voting against it today are open to it in the future. I'm looking forward to one day in the future, coming back to you and saying to support a reserve fund policy that will restore the city's fiscal health. So when we do have a pandemic in the future, God forbid, that we do have some reserve funds to help us. So we're not crying to the state and the federal government, help us, help us, help us.
 that like the Board of Education, other municipalities, they have a reserve fund. So I'm looking forward to this conversation down the road, perhaps not during this fiscal year, but down the road. And I'm glad to hear both you and the other council members say, hey, we're looking forward to holding that conversation because I'm looking forward to having that conversation. And I want to commend council member Rasheed Wyatt, who has worked diligently on this. And he is amenable.
 And he said it yesterday to having this conversation, to tweaking and changing it. That's part of the process. Exchange of ideas, debates back and forth. We're not just going to force this down people. And by the way, I don't need anyone to be my conscious to understand that.
 the impact that this is having on our community. We know it. I don't need somebody to tell me, oh the worst case scenario. We already know it. We watch the news, we see the news, we hear the governor, we hear what the federal government is doing. Thank you very much for making us aware. But we want folks to know that we're looking to make sure that we have these safeguards and guard rails in place so when we leave, we leave the city in a better position than when we actually began.
 Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I was muted. Councilman Fregoletto, I think you were next. Yeah, thank you. I talked about it yesterday. I talked about this in caucus. I think it's very important to have this conversation. However, the points that I brought up yesterday that I didn't feel comfortable addressing it as
 a ordinance amendment to a local law, I'm going to stand by what I said yesterday. And I don't feel comfortable voting in favor of what is in front of us right now, which the item we're voting on is a local law amending the charter effective for 2020. And I don't feel comfortable with that. I believe we should have these conversations, but for that reason, I will be in the negative.
 Anyone else? Councilmember Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am also going to stand firm with what I suggested yesterday in caucus with this coming to me, even though we've been having the conversations and we all understand that the conversations are needed. I do believe that this kind of caught me off guard and.
 Honestly, this is not a conversation starter. This is a proposed policy that's already been laid out.
 And again, it's really about the timing. No one could have predicted the global pandemic. And the reason why we're all in public service is because we believe we can do some good in these offices. And I don't think that anyone is trying to insult anyone as far as their empathy is concerned with the folks in their respective communities.
 But this is an ordinance amendment and I was under the impression after caucus yesterday that this would be substituted for another document and the only document change that is on this in comparison to what was filed before is section one which simply states this local law shall be known as the fund balance policy. That is the only change.
 from this document from what was suggested would be changed in order for us to start having the conversation on what a policy would look like. This, again, is something that is being presented to us with the intention to be discussed on this year's budget.
 And I don't think this is something that needs to go to committee at this point, being that we're considering it to be changed for this year's budget. I think it's a timing issue. You know, colleagues, I think it's a timing issue. So because of those reasons and the aforementioned reasons of both Mr. Golombek and Mr. Scanlon, I would have to say that I would prefer that this is not go to council as well. And that would be a negative to go.
 to committee. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. So this item, and I think Mr. Wyatt said on the last call, I want to make sure that it's well represented. He was willing to amend this. And I'll defer, although he didn't ask to speak that to him to be able to say it. I will weigh in just the fact that
 that in order for this to be a law, as stated, it would have to go to committee. It would have to sit and age. But at the end of the day, conversation is about the future.
 Again, I wouldn't, I don't think anybody on this call would vote next Tuesday to take this out of committee and send it forward. However, as I said yesterday, the reason for my support of the discussion, regardless of the form of how it has come.
 It is before us. And we do have to think about future years so that we do not have a titanic situation. I've been on this council almost 10 years. There's been a discussion that no time was ever right. And I think that even now the timing is not right. I agree with you all wholeheartedly.
 I agree the timing is horrible to talk about reserves, but I want to be clear because the public is watching it. I don't want them to think that when something like this comes before us, that means we're going to tomorrow be trying to find some savings. No, this is the process of government and you can begin a law change or an implementation in many ways.
 and this is what the authors have proposed, but it does not mean, and even the council member Wyatt has said, it does not, they are open to amendments. So we'll continue to have that conversation.
 But I think that everybody should know who is sitting even in the Zoom call or who is not, that there is not going to be a vote tomorrow to start plucking money out of city budget. We're all concerned. We want to keep people working, every one of us. We want to keep our city services moving. All right? Announcement of committee meetings.
 The following meetings are scheduled to be streamlined on www.facebook.com slash b-f-l-o-c-c. Regular committees for next week are postponed. Budget hearings for city departments is Tuesday, May 5, 2020. Buffalo Board of Education hearing will be Wednesday, May 6, 2020. A public hearing for the public will be Wednesday, May 6, 2020. Times will be determined.
 So just for the public, we again, for transparency and by law, our hearings have to be public. The governor's order does allow us to do it through social media. We want people to be engaged when the budget is released. This is just a question that either Tiana or Malcolm can answer. Will the budget be made available online right away so that people are able to look at the budget?
 So, Council President and to the public, from my understanding, administration have reached out to me. They will be filing it electronically, which means that it will become available as soon as we have it to the public. So that's very important. The public is really engaging a lot more and wanting to know and read. I mean,
 Everybody's at home right now. So they have some time to study government more than before. So that will be available by the administration on the city's website. And that will be available to the public. Our public meeting, our public meeting in which there is a public hearing, it will be posted how people, I'm sorry, Ms. Marks, did you announce how they could
 make comments for the public hearing? Council President, you are correct. At this time, I did not make that announcement. It will be another press release and advertisement on how the public can get questions or concerns to the Common Council.
 And I think the chief of staff is on it. He has the phone number and email right now that we can share with the public. Yes, sir. If anybody would like to comment on the budget and matters that come up with that, they can send an email to council staff at city-buffalo.com. And if they'd like to call in, the number is 716-716-7168.
 851-5105. And on May 6th, during the public hearing, which will allow public participation, they can comment directly on the Facebook live video at that time. Again, that email is councilstaff at city-buffalo.com. And the phone number is 716-851-5105.
 Oh, I'm not sure what that was. Does that mean our time is up? I got a bill here. I don't know if you all got that bill. No, sir. We've got the paid account. It's there's no time limit. All right. I heard a bill on my head. I got it. I got it. Yeah. This Saturday, we recognize this global pandemic has changed the way we do business, how we go about life.
 how we spend our time and we've all been involved in numerous initiatives, both public and private. We've gone through some very tumultuous times with our family and friends who have gone through this illness, this sickness, this virus, who has touched many of us.
 Our lives particularly, Council President, you know you yourself have been personally inflicted and we are grateful to God that he, you know, seeing you through that.
 But there are some people who are not so fortunate. And we are still, even though the numbers have decreased from yesterday to today, hundreds of people are still dying. Hundreds of people are still succumbing to this virus. And Mass Indifference wants the community to know that we are serious.
 about helping. And I'm going to say this publicly because we don't need anyone to think that any of us are lagging behind. But we have nothing to prove regarding our love for our community and the people in our community. We have nothing to prove to anyone with what we're doing, whether what we're doing is in public or not.
 I don't need you to see every house that I've visited or every dinner that I've given or all the things that we've provided to people to prove that we care about the people in our community. I don't need anyone's approval about how much I care about my community. What I really would like to do, though, is just for the sake of folks knowing that things that are available continue with some of the public services that we've been engaged in. So on Saturday in the Mastin District, we will be giving away masks.
 at Delavan Grider. And if you didn't know today, even right now at the Delavan Grider Center, there is free food for pickup right now. If you want to go to the Delavan Grider Center, there is free food available to you to pick up right now.
 now and I'll be the first to apologize if we've not done a great job at advertising what we've been doing to try to provide some relief to some of these families who are in need but if you go to the Delavan Grider Center right now they're giving away food
 And if you show up on Saturday between the hours of 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., you'll be able to get free masks. And, again, those are provided for us through ABC Hardware, but we pay for those.
 We don't want to take advantage. We do know that businesses need business. We pay for those masks for the community. You don't have to live in Mastin to come to Delavan Grider and pick up those masks. But again, we are providing those masks for the community of those who show up while supplies last, while supplies last. And again, the federal government has given away those stimulus checks.
 Please, do not pay absorbent amounts of money to have your checks cashed. There is a federal guideline that has to be followed. If that is the case, please, and I'm telling everyone who is listening to this broadcast through this Facebook Live right now, if you believe someone is charging unfairly to cash your check, Facebook Live it and post it.
 And if you've already paid it, post your receipts. That way we just don't have anecdotal data but we have the proof that some folks are paying $200 to get a check cashed. I can show you the inboxes that we've received in Mastin District from the folks who are charging and overcharging for folks to get their stimulus money. That is absolutely, utterly ridiculous, unconscionable.
 So please provide us with that information. But again, I know this was a quite long announcement, but we really want folks to understand that we are here for you. We are not social services. The Common Council is not social services. However, we do provide social services.
 because we care about the quality of life for our constituents. We work hand in hand with the county legislators to ensure that you are provided with certain services that are absolutely necessary. And again, with that said, Saturday between the hours of 10 and 2, we'll be giving away masks for folks in the city of Buffalo, as well as on Friday and Saturday,
 Open Buffalo under the direction and leadership of Franchelle Parker They provided of which we are a partner with them as well They're providing free masks and gloves for folks who come through We will announce the location and time that will be given by open Buffalo and Franchelle Parker We'll be letting you all know when and where you can pick those up. But in the meantime, please
 Please continue to reach out to our office. You can dial mass at 851-5145 We also have our Facebook page. So again, mr. Chair, thank you for this time I apologize for taking so much of it, but we just had to get some things make some things clear. Thank you very much Thank you, sir Mr.
 Thank you, sir. I just want to make a note of next week, Wednesday, May 6 is National Nurses Day in the United States. And I just want to thank them and, you know, make it known that they are a critical part of our first responders during this pandemic and always and just want to make a note of that. Thank you.
 Thank you. And to all of my colleagues, thank you for, I know this is all different and learning curve is a little different. Thank you for the bait. Thank you for the discussion because I think what the public needs to know, and I truly believe this, all of my colleagues that your hearts are in the right place. We're getting through this as best as we can. But the people of the city of Buffalo should know that I served with eight,
 colleagues who they care about their communities. So thank you all for doing what you're doing. Although sometimes people can't see you because we're in the house or we have to mask up and they don't see your face. But I personally know that each of you are doing the best you can in your district. So thank you. Motion? Mr. Chair? Yes, sir. Before that final motion is made, I
 I don't believe the motion was ever carried and seconded for the last item. The last item doesn't usually have a motion, and there are enough votes to send it to committee. So we don't need a second for the motion? If it doesn't have a second for the motion, Council Member Bowman's second. I'll make sure. I'm just making sure. Thank you, sir. Motion?
 Motion to adjourn. We stand adjourned. Thank you everybody.