Bollman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombek. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Present. Council president Pridgen. I'm here. Council member Rivera. Present. Council member Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Provost present. Thank you, let's stand for the pledge.
 I believe in the flag, you know, to the public, to the nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Councilmember Golombek, I think I have a note here that I'm just looking on my screen.
 uh that uh you invited uh suggested Cantor Myers is that correct? That is correct. So would you like to introduce Cantor Myers? Yes thank you very much um you know usually in uh October or November I've invited uh a rabbi or a cantor or somebody from the Jewish faith to come in and offer prayers for us um in the last couple of years with me getting sick and then with uh
 COVID happening, we sort of, you know, I forgot, I dropped the ball on it. And so I contacted a friend of mine, Sue Hessenthaler, who recommended Cantor Penny Myers and I jumped at the opportunity to be able to have her come in and offer prayer for us.
 Cantor Meyers had been the senior clergy member at Temple Beth Zion for I believe 14 years. She's won awards in teaching. I think she was nominated as a Teacher of the Year, and I believe in the musical field. She did volunteer and professional work in Durham, North Carolina, among other places.
 And it's an honor for me to welcome her here to the Buffalo Common Council and for her to open our session with prayer. Welcome, Cantor. Thank you so much. I'm so delighted to be here, certainly with some people I know very well, Bishop Pridgen, of course. And I'm going to offer you something a little bit different than what we would normally.
 use as a typical Hebrew prayer, just given the fact of where we are and the sociologic ways that we are here in this community. So again, thank you for offering me this privilege. I'm deeply humbled at this moment and I'm grateful for your leadership in the Buffalo Common Council. This prayer was written in 2014.
 and it was inspired by one of our sages Yehuda Amichai and Rabbi Rachel Barenblatt. When it was written, this was in memory of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, and many others, and certainly we know what these seven years have brought us. This was recited as part of a pilgrimage of lament in Berkeley, California,
 in December of 2014 and it was written by Rabbi Menachem Kreditor. Dearest God, we stand before you because truths that should be self-evident are not so evident in our country. And so we turn to you to breathe ever more of your spirit into us because we find we cannot breathe.
 The arms of armed forces wrapped around our throats, when we call out for justice, we call to you in defiance of a national system that betrays our noble ideals, where tanks and blood fill our streets, where every black man, woman, and child is 20 times likelier to be killed by police,
 We shout to the heavens with one unified voice, LAC, lives matter.
 We are called by scripture to pray for the day when we will beat our swords into plowshares and study war no more, when the surplus of war led by greed and deception will not spill into our streets, where swords and tanks and rubber bullets and tear gas will be beaten thinner and thinner, the iron of hatred vanishing forever.
 We pray to you, God, we pray to you because as our prophets have taught us, human suffering anywhere concerns men and women everywhere. We call to you, oh God, because your image was abandoned on rainy concrete days.
 for four and a half hours. We call to you, O God, because your spirit was choked out of a father who called out 11 times, I can't breathe.
 We raise our hands to you, knowing that the work is ours to do. Black, white, Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Hindu, atheist, young, old, gay, straight. These are your images, battered by those sworn to protect and serve. We are responsible.
 We are all responsible for what happens next. And so we pray to you, source of life, raise up our eyes to see you in each other's eyes, to take risks for justice, to bring through our unified prayer today more love and compassion into the world today.
 Ignite us to combat the hidden prejudice which causes police to open fire in fear, which transforms a child in a hoodie into a hoodlum, a person into a threat. We pray today not for calm, but for righteousness, to flow like a mighty river until peace fills the earth as the waters fill the sea.
 Comfort the families to all who grieve. Strengthen us to work for a world redeemed. May God bless you and treasure you.
 V'chuneka May the presence of your God be with you and may God look up to you. Yisadonai panayv eylecha V'yasem lachen shalom
 May we all truly know the feeling of Shlemut, that sense of wholeness, the sense of shalom, that of peace. May we walk with our arms linked together and let us say, Amen. Amen.
 Thank you, Cantor, and thank you, Councilmember Golumbak. I was able to spend, we spent 10 days together in Israel and learned so much from you and from many who were on that trip. And I know Al Warner was on that trip along with other Christian clergy and along with Cantors and all kinds of people. And I learned what a Cantor does, and you just did it. And I think it's very appropriate.
 that you represented today. So thank you, Cantor Maya. Thank you. And thank you all for your diligence in making ours a safer and juster place. Thank you. Thank you. Councilmembers, Memorias, Councilmember Golomba, did you, I'm sorry. I think I'm so used to you. Councilmember Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of Raymond Rabb. Ray, as he was affectionately referred to as, Ray is the father of our Deputy Commissioner of Public Works, Andy Rabb. He passed away suddenly over the weekend. So I would ask that we all keep in our thoughts and prayers the Rabb family. Thank you.
 Other hands, Councilmember White and then Councilmember Wingo and then Councilmember Krueger. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask my wife, keep my wife's family in prayer. She lost her aunt, Jeanette Jamison, who was a longtime member of St. Luke Ami Zion Church. She died of COVID, which still again shows us that this infection is very dangerous.
 and we all need to get vaccinated. So please keep her family in prayer. As well as the University District lost a strong, strong woman in Gwen Zinnerman, who was a long time block club president for Stockbridge.
 One of the first people who met me when I became council member was Gwen Zinnerman and her family. And, you know, she is a tremendous loss. And I hear from my colleagues many times when they lose people who were stalwarts in their districts. And Gwen Zinnerman was one of those people. So please keep her family in prayer. It was an unsudden loss. And we know that we lost someone that really cared about people. Thank you.
 Whoever was next, I'm not sure. Councilmember Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to ask the city of Buffalo and this body to keep in your prayers the family of Robert Renfro, Sr. and Robert Renfro, Jr. and the loss of their wife and mother, Perlene Renfro.
 PERLINE WAS 88 YEARS OLD. I SHOULD SAY 88 YEARS YOUNG. BECAUSE TO SEE BROTHER AND FRO, YOU WOULDN'T THINK THAT THEY WERE A DAY OVER 60.
 but we thank God for them. They were such beautiful spirits. Brother Renifro would call. He lives over on Leroy and Maston residence as well. Also members of the Faith Baptist Church, of course, of which I would like to share an encomium later on that. But I'm asking that we keep that family in your prayers because to live for 88 years is to see a lot of.
 And I know that she's seen a lot and Brother Robert Winfroy was still living and he now has to live without his heartbeat. So let's keep them lifted in prayer. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. I'm not sure who I say was next councilmember. No, Kowski was a Jew. I shouldn't call off so many names in a row.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to put in Bruce Kogan into memoriam and have the city of Buffalo think about his family and friends. He's a past president of the Stonewall Democrats of Western New York, and he was an advocate for LGBTQ equality throughout his whole life. And, you know, during his tenure, lobbied Councilmember Rivera many times from domestic partner benefits to strengthening the human rights law. You know, it takes a community and
 uh you know we have a vibrant one here in the city of buffalo so i'd like to just put bruce into memoriam thank you mr chair thank you councilmember ferreletta
 Thank you. We'd like to keep in our prayers the family of Anthony Dina, lived in North Buffalo for a very, very long time, has a wonderful family involved with many different organizations in the city that he volunteered for, as well as a past member of the City of Buffalo Zoning Board of Appeals. So like to keep his family in our prayers. Thank you. Thank you. Did I miss any council member?
 All right, as always, we remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and for other countries since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for all of the names read, all of those spoken, for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a spe- we have two special presentations. The first one will be by Councilmember Rasheed N.C. White.
 Thank you, Mr. President. This is my great honor and pleasure to acknowledge someone from the University District who I've known since she was a little girl. And she and her mom were at True Bethel, Michelle Madding, and she was an arm baby. And today, to acknowledge Dr. Alexis Sykes is incredible.
 I know we acknowledged her at church a couple weeks ago, Pastor. Alexis was not there, but for her to be in front of these honorable members and be acknowledged by the city of Buffalo, I think is noteworthy because we want to inspire our young people that you can be anything you want to be. You just put forth the effort. And Alexis has done that. So I'm going to since she's not in front of us.
 And since I have the proclamation in front of me, I want to read it because I think for something so esteemed, I don't wanna take a shortcut because this is a long haul and she showed dedication and determination. I was able to attend both her graduation from city honors in college. And so she's someone that I've adopted as my guide daughter and I have a bunch of them, but I'm so proud of her, but I just wanna read this real quick.
 Alexis Sykes was born to Michael and Michelle, excuse me, Michelle Manning and Michael Sykes in Buffalo, New York, on March 18th, 1993. She's a faithful member of True Bethel Baptist Church and also a long term resident of the university district. Alexis's mom is a former trustee. Grandfather Donald Manning is a deacon at True Bethel. She attended Cindi Honors High School, PS81 and Steffington Academy. Alexis earned her bachelor's degree in biology from Spelman College.
 a master's of science in medical technology and medical doctorate from SUNY Upstate Medical University. Her passion for medicine and science began at an early age, which led her to earn an internship at Waswell Comprehensive Cancer Center. Alexis has served as vice president of the Association of Women Surgeons, member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc.
 Secretary of Student National Medical Association, Meals on Wheels Coordinator, member of the Gold Humanitarian Honor Society, and Spelman Sister-to-Sister Mentor. Now, therefore, it is an honor and privilege for the City of Buffalo to extend our sincere felicitations to Dr. Alexis Scythe on a joyous celebration of becoming a surgeon. We extend our most heartfelt congratulations and the Lord's blessing to this exemplary woman.
 Congratulations, Lexi. Thank you. I just want to say thank you for this honor. Thank you for the proclamation. I did not expect this at all. And I do want to say I want it to become normal for students from Buffalo to start in Buffalo and then become whatever physician that they want to be. Surgery was a very long time coming as a dream of mine. So I'm really happy to say I'll be a surgeon working in Syracuse. But I still keep my mentors at Rockwell Park.
 And eventually one day, maybe I'll end up back at Roswell Park in surgical oncology. But it's been a blessing. And everyone knows me from Spelman, Atlanta, Georgia, from Syracuse. I am the girl from Buffalo. I don't just say New York State because we all assume I'm from one of the boroughs. And I don't know much about the city, but I always say I'm from Buffalo. And that's one of the things that they remember me for. So thank you.
 Congratulations. I want to thank Councilmember Wyatt for recognizing you and obviously he said it all and I'm just thankful you have been an example to so many about perseverance and
 And every single at the church, we do a report card Sunday, every marking period. And so I always bring up the young people who are on the honor roll. Lexus was always on. I don't know if there's ever been a time that you weren't on the honor roll. And then I had to stop doing the.
 what's your percentage because you always had the highest percentage. So I didn't want you to be the, everybody get mad at Lex this week, but this city is so proud of you. And I know that your parents are and your grandparents. And thank you for saying you are from Buffalo, New York. Congratulations, doctor. We had to call her by her name, Dr. Sykes. Congratulations. Council member Wingo. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. That's awesome, awesome news. And congratulations, Ms. Sykes, on all of your accomplishments, academic accomplishments, and of course now your career dreams. Congratulations to you. Mr. Chair, I would like to recognize Pastor James R. Banks II.
 Pastor Banks has been the pastor of Faith Missionary Baptist Church since 1981, 40 years. And as a pastor, you and I both well know that staying at a church for 40 years is somewhat of a feat. And he has done that. He has been at the same church before.
 for 40 years. This is his first church and his only church. And I'm pretty sure it'll probably be his last church. But Pastor Banks has been the pastor of faith for 40 years.
 And in that 40 years, even currently right now, he serves as the president of the Empire Missionary Baptist Convention Congress of Christian Education, of which he's solely responsible for making sure that all the Baptist churches in the state of New York have a curriculum that enhances and...
 built the capacity of their teachers and ministries in the state of New York. He also served as the first vice president of the Empire Missionary Baptist Congress of Christian Education in 2011. Every year we would go to the Sovereign
 Sovereign Grace Bible Conference in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And because of Pastor Banks' seniority, he is the senior pastor at that conference. And we're talking about hundreds of pastors who attend this conference every year. And he's distinguished himself. I should say God has distinguished him as the elder senior pastor himself.
 of all love the ministers and the pastors I and and this country but he has been a tremendous blessing but not just to the faith about this church but I believe to everyone on an individual level I remember in 2000 in 6 it was December 2005 when I first became very close with pastor banks he had hired me to be his minister music and I remember being introduced to him initially he was my boss
 He was Pastor James R. Banks II, pastor of the Faith Baptist Church, of which, of course, he hired me to be the minister of music. And then God led me to join Faith's ministry, and then he became my pastor. And since then, my father passed away about 10 years ago, and Pastor Banks has become Pop.
 So he has become Godfather to a lot of people. He has been pastor to a lot of people through generations. And today we honor him. The mayor declared April the 25th.
 to be James R. Banks Day II here in the city of Buffalo, because Pastor Banks' father is James R. Banks, and he's the second. And we just want to say congratulations to Pastor Banks. We love you, and our thoughts and prayers are with you, and we pray that God continues to keep you as long as you want to be kept. We thank you, Mr. Chair, for this moment, and again, congratulations to Pastor James R. Banks II. Absolutely.
 of those presentations. Is there anyone else? All right. Thank you, Dr. Sykes. And congratulations, Pastor Banks. All righty. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April the 13th, 2021 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Yes.
 Hearing no objections to late files, we will hear the total agenda. And Dr. Sykes, you don't have to stay with us here. She can go and surgerize somebody. All right. Hearing no objections, we'll hear the entire agenda. Are we going from the top? Yes. All righty. Item number one, appoint to Buffalo Water Board. Motion to approve items one through four. Second by Council Member Winkle. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number five, extension for St. Luke's Mission of Mercy. This item is open. That will be an approval. Motion is to approve.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Buhlmann. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number six, local landmark 436 Amherst. Motion to send to legislation item six and seven. Mr. President. Council member Golomba. Yeah, I had actually requested that these two would be approved. I know I was having a problem with the microphone yesterday during caucus. So if we could approve these unless there's some sort of legal issue not to. Motion is to rescind the previous motion.
 Excuse me, Councilmember, there should be a public hearing for these. Oh, is that what the issue? Okay. So, all right. Okay. I'm sorry. I wasn't able to get that information yesterday because my laptop was not working properly. So, public hearing next week and then we can approve it in two weeks. It'll be a little bit further out than that. We have to send out the notice. Okay, gotcha. All right. Okay, thank you. Sorry about that. Not a problem. Thank you, sir. Second by Councilmember Glumbeck.
 Item number eight, permission to accept grant, NISDEC grant for climate resiliency planning. I want you to approve items eight and nine. I'm going to ask to be recused from item number nine, although I can vote on it because I'm not receiving any, I don't receive anything from this company. However, our church did invest in this company. So I ask to be recused from item number nine.
 And that will be moved by Council Member Rivera, seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 10, report of sale 1247 Fillmore. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Council Member, Council President? Yes. Item number 10, can we motion to rescind the previous motion? Motion to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Council Member Golombet. And the motion now would be to approve with conditions.
 approved with conditions that will be submitted by the district council members second by council member fear a little thank you sir not a problem that's remember bowman yes council member ferralero yes council member yes council member nowakowski yes that's the president pridgin yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes that's for one yes
 Item number 11, report of sale 249 Newberg. Item's open. And we send that to CD as well. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 12, treasury ERAP. Motion to approve. Second by council member Nowakowski. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombic. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pritchin. Yes.
 Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Winkle? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Mr. President, can I speak on this? Council member Wyatt, you have the floor. Yeah, thank you. I want to thank Brendan for this item. This item will assist folks for getting some type of rental assistance from what he explained to me up to 12 months.
 The information will be coming out very soon in the month of May. So I want homeowners, renters, and as well as people who own property to be on the lookout because it's going to be first come, first serve. I mean, this is up to 12 months of relief. So I just want to make the public aware to be on the lookout.
 So I know that there's a lot of information out there that everyone is not available to. And we just want to let them know that this will be coming from the city, that you will be able to get some type of relief for your rent. Thank you.
 Hopefully people will utilize it because we do have landlords who are calling saying that some of their tenants are not paying and not utilizing this program. I know that the church owns several properties and we literally take them the applications when they say they can't pay, but everybody can't do that. So I just hope that people will, if you can pay your rent, but if you can't, then try
 try at least these programs. And Brendan did call, Mr. Baff did call all of us or someone called all of us. So to make sure that this moved quickly. You had the first and second? Yeah, yes, we did. Item number 13, appoint press information officer. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Fairletter. Item number 14, certificate of necessity. Okay.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 15, March 2021 Cash Flow Summary Report. Motion to send to finance items 15 through 17. Second by President Pro Temp Scandler. Item number 18, Budget Hearings and Workshop Schedule. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 19, change order, New Marco Incorporated Kensington Pool. Motion to approve items 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Mr. Chair, I just want to read one condition on...
 Item number 23 with conditions. Absolutely. That condition is approved on the condition that the contract cannot be executed unless the contractor meets the requirement of the city of Buffalo apprenticeship program. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next time. I'll do a roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes.
 Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 29, appoint civilian school crossing guard. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Furlow. Item number 30, Bruno Elio. Motion to send claims committee items 30...
 Through, you can scroll up, through 65. Second by Councilmember Noah Kousa. Item number 66, property manager license. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 67, contract extension University emergency medical services. Motion to send the finance. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Motion to send legislation. As well as 68, so noted for the record.
 Item number 69, appoint junior traffic court clerk. Motion to send to civil service item 69 and 70. Second by council member Noah Kowski. Item number 71, board of ed resolution on school safe zones and traffic safety. This is the late file. The late file. I'm not sure who filed it. Council member Wingo. Mr. Chair, I filed this item. Okay.
 so that it can go and accompany all of the other conversations that we've been having around the safety school zone cameras. The Board of Education for the Buffalo School District voted, I believe, 72 to approve this resolution in support of the school zone cameras. The program has the data to show that it's working. The data shows that behaviors are changing.
 and I wanted to make sure that we had in our record in our discussion the professionals the experts on education the ones who are in these schools every day who teach our children every day I wanted to make sure that their representatives opinion is heard as well on this subject matter so I filed this resolution that was filed last year in May and again it was approved 7 to 2 and
 and this I would like to send to legislation. I move to send to legislation. Second by council member Whittem. Item number 72, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 72 and 73. Second by president Pro Temp Scantlin. Item number 74, Buffalo draft resolution pursuant to EO203. Motion to send to legislation. Second by council member Fierletto. Council member White.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. President. I want to first thank the AG for such a thorough review of what we propose from the City of Buffalo. And in light of the situation that just recently happened in Elizabeth, North Carolina, where another unarmed black man was shot gunned down, Andrew Brown, for us to put forth something that's meaningful. We are at a crossroads.
 And there are so many forces that are pushing back against reform. And when I think about what our process was, and how we didn't have sufficient community input, but we still have Black men being killed every other day.
 I'm trying to, I'm wondering where we are. You know, Ms. Cantor, or the Cantor, Ms. Myers talked about taking a risk for justice and that resonated with me because some of us have the luxury of not having to walk in a brown skin and that's not an insult to anybody, it certainly isn't. But when I think about my sons and I think about what we're dealing with, I think about Daunte Wright
 And I keep seeing these images of a young man who was shot. Someone forgot, mistaken the gun for the taser for a gun. And we just have excuse after excuse in which black and brown people are killed. And I'm just wondering when is it going to end? And when are we going to take action?
 Not a small move, not something that says this is a living document. We're going to make changes as we go on, because when push comes to shove, we've made no changes. We've talked about some things, but the significant things that were supposed to be done that the advocates asked for, as far as a civilian review board in which our mayor came right out and said blatantly, I'm not supporting it.
 But I said in my comments when we put it forth that the AG said the police should not be policing themselves. But our mayor, our brown mayor, said, no. I think the AG has given us a guideline. And I'm hopeful that we can come back together and put something meaningful in light of the continued murders of armed armed black men that we will take up this opportunity.
 We're not going to have this opportunity tomorrow. We have advocates who are standing. And I don't like, you know what, I don't like it. But unfortunately, they put us all in the same barrel. There was a news report, the Buffalo News Today, and someone said, yeah, the council needs to take notice. And it's unfortunate because some of us have taken notice. Some of us have taken action. Some of us have spoken up.
 but not to enough, not enough. And I can agree with them on that. Because again, as we go through every other day, it seems like another incident occurs. And I don't know what it's going to take. You know, when you think about the issues of gun reform, and little kids get gunned down, unfortunately, that's not in our hands, but it's in our hands of our Congress, and they do nothing. And I sit here as a Black man saying, when are we going to do something?
 Do we have to wait until somebody in our household gets gunned down or somebody that we know? I hope we don't have to do that. But I think that there deserves to be further conversation about hopefully, I don't know, I think council president said that we weren't allowed to put forth an amendment.
 But we can send in another letter saying that these are things that we believe are very important. And they're the things that the advocates have been asked for. You know, I know some of us don't particularly like the way they attack us in some cases, and I understand. But at the end of the day, I think this is about life and death.
 And some of us take it for granted. And some of us think that, you know, it can't happen to me. Well, it can happen to any of us. And I'm just asking, I'm pleading to my colleagues for us to take a second look and to adhere to what this AG has put forth. I know, I'm sure it's not a coincidence that this document was put forth on March 25th, 2021. Right.
 And we wouldn't have gotten this had it not been for the great work of Investigative Post and Jeff Kelly. And I'm going to shout them out because this is something to me that's extremely important. This ain't political to me. This is real. Because my sons could be in the crosshairs of a police officer who is not trained, who is not sensitive, who may not have the...
 emotional intelligence and how to deal and deescalate. I know my colleague, former police officer, David Revere, put forth something as far as the LEAD program. And I think that every time we have police oversight, we ask about the training. So we do care, but we don't control it all. We just legislate. But again, I'm appealing to the sensitivity of my colleagues and what you've been seeing day in and day out. And I just hope that it never happens in the city of Buffalo.
 But I think that we can do something today and not wait till tomorrow. This doesn't have to be a living document. This would be something that we may take advantage in memorialize and put in place today, not tomorrow. Because tomorrow is not promised. And I think we should hear from the public. She didn't do the J.G. spoke to the issue that the public didn't get opportunity to speak. And it's very clear.
 And I think that some of my colleagues had a concern over the funding and I understand that, but I want the public to know it wasn't a lot of us. It wasn't just because we didn't care, but we were under a timetable. And the two colleagues who were from the council did not dictate when that timetable was. They were there. They were on the panel. They actually added value.
 So I want people to understand we do care, but we have to take action. And I think the AG has sent us a call to action, not to memorialize, not to further pontificate, but to put something in place like other cities, like Detroit. I saw the mayor of Detroit after the young lady was shot and killed. He spoke up, the council president said that they're putting things in place. They had to go through a referendum
 We shouldn't put our folks through a referendum. We know that this is the right thing to do. And I think the council has been on the right side on a lot of things. But I'm hopeful that I can plead to my colleagues not to be disrespectful, but to be as much as respectful as I can. How we together, we talk about one city, then this is our opportunity to show that we're one city. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Okay.
 Thank you. Did we already get a motion? Yes. Okay. And that's just it. Next item? Item number 75, request to speak at committee. Request to speak at committee. I'm not sure who filed this. It says, oh, is that receiving file? That's correct. All right. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 76 AMR response to request for data. Motion to send to legislation item 76 and 77. Second by council member Fairlough. Item number 78 NFTA bus stop concerns at 61 Lakeview. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Wingo. Item number 79 Larry Scott school speed zone letter. This is a late file. Council member Wingo.
 This item, Mr. Chair, was filed additionally with the resolution from the Buffalo Board of Education where Member-at-Large Lawrence Scott sent a letter in to this honorable body as well as to the Mayor's Office on April 20, 2001.
 and I he's been very vocal and very clear about his position on the speed cameras and there are some very very compelling statistics
 in this document in this letter that he cites as well i believe we uh... should include these type of documents when we are having the discussions because they're are two sides to this uh... discussion uh... unfortunately it's seemed as of late that there's only been one side but there is a large population who appreciates the effects of the speed cameras and i do believe that there is a solution
 to not having to take the cameras down where we can enforce the speed as well as keep children safe and not have this come across as some type of plan to monetize children's safety. So that said, I would like this to go to ledge so that it can be discussed as far as statistics and if Mr. Scott, board member Scott would like to come in and speak, he has the opportunity to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Buengo. Item number 80, speed zone camera concerns from Greg Johnson. Motion to send to legislation. Council Member Buengo, you have the floor.
 AGAIN MR. CHAIR WITH THE RISK OF SOUNDING LIKE I'M REPEATING MYSELF OF WHICH I AM NOT THIS IS FROM A PRINCIPAL OF A SCHOOL WHO IS ASKING ON BEHALF OF MANY PRINCIPALS FOR US TO CONSIDER OUR STANCE ON THE SPEED ZONE CAMERA SAFETY PROGRAM IN THE CITY OF BUFFALO AGAIN THESE ARE THE EXPERTS THESE ARE THE FOLKS WHO GO TO THE SCHOOLS EVERY DAY THEY SEE THE CLOSE CALLS THEY KNOW THE NUMBERS THEY SEE THE STATISTICS AND
 every day and I believe that this warrants discussion as well again there are more than just one side there's more to this than just one side to the store so hopefully we can discuss everything as well as not just the problems but the solutions for the speed zone safety camera program thank you mr. president
 Councilmember Golombi. Thank you Mr. President. Yeah I want to thank my colleague for submitting these letters because he's absolutely right. Like almost every issue that comes in front of us not 100% on one side or the other. This week alone I've received several emails, text messages, phone messages
 and other contacts to my office from just residents. You know, not residents that you'll see at a rally or necessarily at a community meeting or anything like that, especially now with COVID, but just residents that contacted me that lived near West Turtle Academy, that lived near Graviars and some of the other schools in the district and said, thank you, please contact,
 Please don't get rid of the camera, the speed zone cameras. You know, two weeks ago when I voted against the approval, my request, my hope was, was that I wanted the item to go to committee because I forget which one of my colleagues, I think it might have been...
 Mr. Wingo, but I'm not sure, said, you know, we don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. And I agree with that 100%. I do believe that this cameras have been somewhat successful. I think they've been successful, but there's been problems with them that have made them problematic. I think that, you know, I would like to see, you know, these issues tweak
 in the city of Buffalo, because as I mentioned, I mean, I have people that are telling me, you know, thank you. You know, I can cross the street. And these were actually, and almost actually, I'm just thinking now, in every single case, I think that these were senior citizens that, you know, were seeing it as being safer for themselves
 being able to walk down the busy streets that are nearby. So I think that there is a safety factor for the kids. I think that there's a safety factor for pedestrians, for bike riders, etc. Once again, you know, I'm not 100% wholeheartedly in support of the speed zone cameras as they were, you know, but I was willing to work with the council and with the mayor to try to fix
 the problems as they came up in the city of Buffalo. So thank you to Mr. Wingo. Councilman Freeland. Yeah, I just have a quick question. Since we've already passed legislation on this, can we send these to education committee instead of legislation since we don't have any pending legislation on it? Councilman Wingo. Okay.
 I don't have an answer to that question, but I do have a statement. The mayor hasn't signed that document, and we don't know of that document, although we passed it for immediate passage as a council. We're not certain yet, unless Corporation Council can speak to that point, whether or not this document will actually move forward in the process. I have no information on that document.
 Well, we can, instead of keeping talking about this right now, we can look into it and perhaps when we're in legislation next week, as the chair, I may make a motion to send them to the education committee. Okay. Mr. Chair.
 Yes, I have a question for you, Mr. Chair. You clearly have expressed in the past that you would like for us to work on the program as well as modifying our ordinance. Now, as it relates to this ordinance that we asked to, well, we didn't. The majority of the council had asked.
 for it to be immediately passed. What is our response should the mayor not do anything at all? Because without the signature of the mayor and without the process being followed, I believe it was brought to our attention that...
 We missed a step. Well, we didn't miss a step. This council missed a step. And are we going to have to refile this? And if we have to refile it, what is the process for that? I'm not sure who said that the council missed a step.
 Well, I've listened to some of the reports that we've seen in the media that says that we missed a step. Basically, before we sent this to the mayor, we were supposed to have this signed by the mayor for our immediate passage with a supermajority vote.
 I'm not again, I haven't heard a legal opinion that this council missed a step. The media sometimes misses it or gets information from people who don't understand. I wasn't going to tie up your time with this, but we went back and did the research over immediate passage and not only did the research, but looked at the law before it was changed. And then I called the sponsor or the one, the president at the time of the council who
 amended the two-thirds vote law and that was comes comes president James Pitts who said that the reason the law that the area of the law was changed was so that the council did not have to wait on the mayor to do that the council
 could do immediate passage, send it to the mayor, and then the mayor had the opportunity to either sign it or not. And so we're still in that process. But at this date and at this moment, I have not been told by anybody that the council's actions were incorrect, especially to the spirit of what the amendment of that section of the charter is. So until...
 We get, if Corporation Counsel Tim Ball or somebody sends us something, and even at that, and one thing that I don't want to get into is what the old counsel had years ago, and I think Councilman Golombek was around, then when people go into court to decide what's right, what's wrong, but at the end of the day, we had several attorneys opine.
 And then, like I said, I went back to the folks who voted on the amendment, and they assured me that the reason they made that amendment is that the council did not have to wait on the mayor. The council has the power to send something to the mayor's desk for media passage, and now it's in his court. But I heard those same, like, rumblings, but nothing official from anyone. All righty? We ready for the next item? Exciting.
 Was the motion to send number 80 to ledge? Yes. Yes. Did you get a second? Did I give you a second? No, I didn't get a second. Second by Councilmember Wood. Number 81, letters of support for 86 Winspear. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Letter number 82, special use permit 1223 Lovejoy.
 Motion to send to legislation and city planning board items 82 through 85. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Submissions list, civil service, item number one, appoint maintenance assistant provisional. Motion is to receive and file items number one through and including seven. Second by Councilmember Bevere. Community development, item number eight, 1703 and 1707 Main Street, DDA.
 This came without recommendation. Did one of my colleagues have a position on this? Council Member Wingo. Sorry about that. I was trying to unmute my microphone. The DDA for this, we're going to recommit. Okay, motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number nine, NYS OCFS response to Councilmember Wyatt regarding Compass House. Motion to receive and file items nine and ten. Second by majority leader Revere. Item number 11, natural resource damages. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Scan. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golombek? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Council member Kite? Yes.
 legislation item number 12 food store license 1021 east ferry motion is to approve with conditions items 12 13 and 14 let's approve the conditions that will be filed by the district council members second by council member bowman council member bowman
 Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 15, comments from public regarding school speeds on cameras. Motion is to receive and file. Receive and file, seconded by majority leader Rivera.
 item number 16 zoning map amendment for marilla hopkins buffalo railroad tift neg deck this motion is to send to ledge i'm assuming that's to recommit chief i believe so yes sir that's a recommit the motion is to recommit second by president pro temp scandal
 Item number 17, Fair Finds and Fees Coalition Speed Camera Program Replacement. Motion is to receive and file items 17, 18, 19, and 20. We're going to go all the way to 22. We have a second for that, Council President. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear about 22. Second by Council Member White. Item number 21, Fair Finds and Fees Coalition Speed Camera Program Replacement.
 zoning map amendment multiple addresses on Marilla multiple addresses Hopkins for Buffalo River Railroad South and 558 Tift motion to recommit items 21 and 22 second by councilmember Bolton leave on 22 isn't that we wanted to send it to finance okay we can rescind we can rescind the previous motion
 motion. No, I'll call it. Motion to send 22 item number 22 to finance. So the motion stands to send item 21 to ledge, motion to send it to send item 22 to ledge second by council member Bowman. And now it is to what's the motion on it to send it where finance finance second by council member, Noah Kowski, who has the floor. Oh, I just wanted to make sure it was seconded. Yes, sir. We got number 23 food store license 27 to 56 Bailey.
 This item was sent without recommendation. Yeah, recommit. We haven't heard from the applicant. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 24, Special Use Permit 1462, Hurdle for Tavern and Outdoor Dining. Motion to approve items 24, 25, 26, 27. Second by Council Member DeLong. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferrioletto? Yes. Council member Golombek? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 28, special use permit 28, memorial for public assembly. Motion is to recommit. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 29, special use permit 28, memorial for public assembly.
 Public comments, 982 Broadway. Motion is to receive and file items 29 through and including 39. Second by Majority Leader Riv Vira. Item number 40, Special Use Permit 671 Fillmore. The motion is to deny and the District Council member will give the conditions after the meeting.
 This council member will provide and write the reason for denial. Perfect. Thank you. I'm sorry, second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 41, audit of and moratorium on 45-A approvals. Motion is to receive and file items 41 through and including 46. Yes, 46.
 46, seconded by President Pro Temp Scammer. Item number 47, planned unit development, 975 to 1005 Furman Boulevard. Motion is to deny, and the denial will the council member will provide in writing the reason for denial. Seconded by Council Member Scammer. School has the floor. Yeah, Mr. Chair, that item, they're actually no longer pursuing that, so it's
 I don't know if that would be a receiving file. Instead of still have to deny it so we could not deny it based on the fact that the applicant drew his application or something to that extent. Thank you. So the motion is to deny because the applicant withdrew his application. Absolutely. Second by Councilmember Scanlon again. Thank you. Item number 48 submission of quarterly data of school speeds on cameras. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 49, food store license 432 East Ferry. This motion was sent without recommendation. It is in the Mastin District, 432 East Ferry Food Store. 49 and 50 recommit them both. 49 and 50 recommit. Second by Council Member Winkler. Item number 51, property manager's license, Empire Realty Service. Motion is to receive and file items 51 through 53.
 Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 54, used car dealer 2650 Bailey. This item was sent without recommendation, is in the Mastin District, 2650 Bailey Avenue. Approve with conditions to be submitted by this office to legal. Motion is to approve with conditions that will be submitted by the District Council Member. Second by the District Council Member.
 Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 55, renewing efforts to give voters the option of nonpartisan elections. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombic. Thank you.
 Item number 56, used car dealer 772 Genesee. Motion is to deny and the basis of denial will be provided in writing. Absolutely. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Police Oversight. Item 57, request to speak at police oversight. Motion to receive and file items 57 through 60. Through 61 you said? Through 61. Second by Council Member Fiala.
 Item number 86, Buffalo School District bond refunding. This item is open.
 Mr. President. Council Member Bowman. This item was also the item that the comptroller's office had presented to us yesterday at caucus. It's a bond refunding of bonds that were sold in 2011. The Board of Education already voted, so they need the council to vote. We stand to, the Buffalo Public Schools stand to potentially get $26 million in savings.
 with regard to this. Would you like that approved now? Yes, please. We need to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Galambic. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 87, ordinance amendment chapter 415. Motion to approve. Second by council member Fairlough. Who has the floor? Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank all of my colleagues for supporting this item. I would also like to thank the mayor and the administration for the work they have done on this. I believe all of most of my colleagues, if not all, have supported.
 jumped on to co-sponsor this last year. Right when the pandemic hit, we wanted to allow businesses to expand their outdoor space
 because of the restrictions that were in place. Since there are currently still restrictions in place, this legislation is extending that. So it has been mostly restaurants that have done it, but there has been, I know at least one retailer who has done this to expand their space outdoors. Last year I believe there were 44 businesses that did it. Many of them have said that it helped
 literally save their business and they could have and likely would have closed otherwise because they would not have been able to have that revenue. So I'm very excited that this council administration is passing this so that these businesses can apply the applications live right now to expand their outdoor space. And since there were 44 last year. We hope there are more this year that participate. Thank you, everyone.
 Thank you. Council Member Wyatt? May I be added, Mr. Chair? Mr. President? May I be added as well? Say that. May I be added to the resolution? This is not a resolution. I'm sorry, Council Member Nowakowski? You can add me to the amendment. Council Member Nowakowski is added. Mr. President? Yes, sir. Can we revisit item number 37? I believe out of ledge, it may have been received in five.
 everyone can we come back at the end of the meeting of course thank you we do revisits we'll do that in corporation council thanks for looking out for us making sure we do it correctly next time still have the clerk yes yeah i'm here um item number 88 bicycle pedestrian advisory board appointment motion to adopt items 88 through 90
 Through 91? 91. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. Did we have a roll call vote on that last item? Nope. I'll call roll for item 87. Council Member Bowman? Yes.
 Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Item number 92, Hurdle North Park Youth Baseball League Fundraiser, fee waiver. Motion to approve items 92 and 93.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Yes, sir. Councilmember Nowakowski.
 I would like to just thank you for item 88 for appointing a friend of mine into the office and I think the whole city of Buffalo, Ari Moore, to the Arts Commission. I know she's your appointment as Council President. And Ari has been, she went to school for arts education and taught at the Albright Arts Art Gallery, which some of us were able to even go on a tour today, and was a police officer for 25 years.
 received district in Broadway Fillmore, but has also had artwork presented in many places, but also most recently the Birchfield Penny Art Center. I know that she will make you proud. I know she will make the council proud. And she is a Mastin District constituent, but on the border of the university and Mastin District.
 district and she has been many things throughout her life, a mentor, a Black Club member, police officer, but she always told me that she wanted to be known as an artist and you helped make that today by appointing her to the Arts Commission. So I just really want to thank you. But she also served on our police
 advisory panel. And so now to go from police to art, but I see her work all over and especially festivals. So I think that it gives a another balance to that body. So thank you also for the recommendation of bringing that name forward. It was my pleasure.
 There is an item that's not on the agenda or not appeared on the agenda. It's item 94. I'll just call roll for those last two, 92 and 93. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Item 94. I'm sorry, you're on mute. We can't hear you, Sean. Yeah, item number 94, Joseph Tyson, amount to be determined. Additional claim that we put in place over at 4. Motion to send to the claims committee. Motion to send the claims, seconded by Councilmember Noah Kowski.
 Mr. Chair, there's a motion that we revisit, I believe it's item 37. That's correct. We should revisit item 37. The motion is to revisit item number 37, seconded by Councilmember White. The item is before us.
 It's a special use permit and so a decision needs to be made on this I'm not sure if the district council member was in touch with the applicant and probably the applicant decided he was no longer interested But this would have had a hearing back in October of last year So a decision needs to be made on this one. Not sure which district it says Mastin. Councilmember Wingo?
 I don't recall a hearing where someone came in to speak on this item. So if it pleases this body, we can rescind the motion to receive and file and recommit this back to committee so that we can give the applicant an opportunity to either explain why they withdrew or if they still have a desire for the special use permit.
 Motion is to rescind the motion to receive and file second by Councilmember Wingo. The motion now is to recommit second by Councilmember Wingo. Clerk, announcements. Announcement of community meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service. Tuesday, May 4th, 2021 at 945 a.m.
 Committee on Finance, Following Civil Service, Tuesday, May 4th, 2021 at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, May 4th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, May 4th at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Claims, Tuesday, May 4th at 11 a.m.
 All right and the budget meetings are filed and those dates are available by looking right on the journal. Councilmembers any announcements? Councilmember Scanlan. Just a quick question on the budget hearings. I know I sent you a message yesterday if we um do we have a time yet for the public hearing yet?
 I'm looking at that right now. I apologize. We usually hold it in the afternoon or in the evening. I know you had a, may have a conflict, but we can record it. I mean, it'll be recorded. Yeah. And you can catch it. So I think, you know, whatever that commitment was, that's fine. Okay. Council members, any other announcements for your districts?
 All right. Hearing none, motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Joel Fierletto. We adjourn. Thank you.