Ready? Ready to go? 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Hawkson-Polk. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the pledge.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, on which it stands, forever and ever. I would ask that you please remain standing for today's invocation, which will be given by Rabbi Alex Lazarus Klein.
 Thank you for having me here today. This is the eighth day of Passover for much of the Jewish community, but this is an important gathering, and I'm blessed to be here today. I'd like to offer some words of encouragement for all that you're doing today, and some stories that I hope will touch you as you go and do your work. We lost our oldest member just a few weeks ago, Ruth Lansing. She was 105 years old.
 Born a few days after arms to stay in Germany, she was given the middle name freedom, meaning peace. A few days before her 20th birthday, she watched her community burn in one of the worst pogroms in Jewish history, Kristallnacht, the night of broken glass. She was lucky enough
 to make her way to england during the war but her parents and sister were not as lucky perishing at auschwitz-birkenau after the war ruth returned to germany defiant even taking a picture standing over a downed nazi plane and acting as a translator during the nuremberg trials her surviving sister was in buffalo so she came here
 Her sister moved shortly away, but she stayed, marrying her beloved Eric and raising their two kids, Tom and Diane. She was not cowed by what she went through, but continued to live life fully with humor and determination. When I think of the spirit of this area, it is people like Ruth I picture. I also want you to picture a gentleman named Tibor Baranski. And in just a week, we will officially unveil a mural at Roswell Park.
 dedicated to him and two other righteous Gentiles who've settled in Western New York, Clara Ambrose and Sister Margalit Slakta. Tibor was born a few years after Ruth in Budapest. He was in a Catholic seminary during the outbreak of the war. When the Nazis invaded Hungary, he returned to fight oppression. Using ingenuity, moxie, he saved thousands of Jews, according to him, up to 12,000 Jews.
 who were destined to the concentration camps when questioned by nazi guards about why as a christian he was determined to save jews he said he did it because of his faith and he was determined to do so after the war he spent almost a decade in communist prison
 because of his actions, because of what he believed in, eventually joining his family in Buffalo, living out a quiet life for the remainder of his days. When you think of the people that you serve and represent here, these are the people, these individuals, you should imagine, heroic individuals, right?
 People who defied tyrants, fought for justice, people that put their lives on the line for the lives of others. The work you're doing in these chambers is important and holy and has consequences. But remember, you stand on the back of giants. In honor of these brave giants, I'd like to offer a poem and a prayer that I wrote for my daughter after Harvey Weinstein was arrested. It's called Defell a Giant.
 To fell a giant is not easy. They are, after all, big, incredibly muscular, and immovable as a stone wall. To start out, you will need a list of supplies, a bow with arrows dipped in poison, a large mallet to pound on their toes, a bucket of ice water to throw at their feet, a steel-bladed sword to cut out their heart, an extra large boom box to blast in their ears, a cannon with two heavy black balls to take out their eyes, a catapult to swing at their bellies and cause them to fall,
 and 30 yards of heavy road to tie them when they finally do. Take each item with vital seriousness, for if any of these are missing from your list, try not to fret.
 Because there's only one thing you truly need, yourself. Standing tall and strong, braced for all, the giant will throw at you. Insults and threats, malicious lies about how unfit you are to even be in their presence. That you are merely disgruntled and disenchanted, lazy and worse, a counterfeit. Their loud cries will echo for miles. Even your mother will hear. She will ask if you are okay. Tell her that you are.
 We resolute even in that filthy air descends upon you. Remember, as you begin to question your own worth, that you have the greatest weapon of all, the truth. Real giants are nothing more than bullies who have inflated their own worth by standing on lies. It is in your power to take them down. If not, they will continue to inflict their pain on others just like they have done to you. Deny them that pleasure by speaking the truth, and in doing so, they, like all giants, must die.
 come crashing down to the ground not to worry if you feel scared that your words won't mean what you hope that you wither and give up in the face of so much persistence that the world will ignore your cries and believe the giant instead because all of us fellow-victims who have been maligned and trod upon
 I said giant are there beside you secretly cheering you on bracing you for your own fall and thanking you with all your heart that you've been willing to stand up at all. Thank you for standing up. May you be blessed on your journey today. Thank you, Rabbi Lazarus client council members and memoriams.
 Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. Many folks know who Tom Bleed was, and he lived in my district on West Tupper Street and was a longtime advocate for basically everyone and everything Buffalo, and he began his municipal career by being a confidential aid to then Mayor Tony Masiello for three terms.
 and then transitioned to the Erie County Board of Elections, where he maintained a leadership position in the Stonewall Democrats. And virtually you could see him volunteer anything from Dingus Day to community cleanups to other cultural organizations. Everybody knew who he was. He was a cheerleader for Democrats.
 many elected officials and people. And he comes from the generation of LGBTQ people who helped pave the way for folks like myself by building a better place here. So folks like me can one day grow up to be a council member. So I would like to put him in a memoriam and to know that his sacrifice and his dedication to the city helped enrich the lives of all of us. Thank you, Mr. President. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you Mr. President. I would like to remember Jean Paul, who was a long time. Love joy resident. World War 2 veteran he was a founder of the luxury business association did many events into his 90s. He was active and making an impact on the district.
 Gene will be sorely missed also wanted to 2nd council member no accounts of Tom. He was always a friendly face and had fun in some of the stiffest of rooms and we appreciate all that. He's done in his advocacy. I also want to remember a boo you Seth. And who were 2 members from the community tragically.
 lost their lives this weekend on Center Street. And from all accounts, they were great stand-up members of our community. They went to work and they didn't return home to their families. They leave behind their wife and children. And it's just a tragic loss. So I wanted to enter those names into the record. Thank you. Council Member Glumbach.
 Thank you. I want to second Tom Glead as well. I worked with Tom when I was a very young council member here, and I always enjoyed working with him. And whether we were on the same side or not, whether it was working in City Hall or working over at the Board of Elections, I always loved seeing Tom because he always had a kind word, and he would always be willing to help and go that extra mile. He's going to be very sorely missed by his family and friends.
 Thank you. For those who were mentioned and for any members of the first responder community or our armed services who may have lost their lives in service since our last meeting, we'll now turn to a moment of silence. Thank you to start today's meeting. We have a few presentations, so I would welcome Councilmember Nowakowski to the podium. You don't have to.
 So this organization is actually in the Niagara District on the corner of Ashland and Lexington and Little Salmon. And I was able to set up an event at the Broadway Market where we were able to provide economically or eco-friendly products,
 to the residents in my district and at the Broadway Market. And I think through that public education of being more sustainable through our usage of products and less plastics is extremely important for not only our carbon footprint, but to be better stewards of this world. And so I am
 um, super happy that my, my staff had came and said, you know, they saw you on Instagram and they fell in love with all of your products and the way that you, um, hold to conduct yourself. And, uh, once we went into, um,
 the Niagara district, which I know quite well, cause I used to work for council member Rivera and, uh, we saw how you ran your business and how, um, some of the, the, um, kind of education that we had to overcome with knowing that it, we can live in a more sustainable society. And so that's why, um,
 I won't read the full thing because it's very long, but now therefore proclaimed that Tracy from Little Salmon and recognized an honor during Earth Month for their dedication to promoting sustainability, ethical consumption, and community engagements. Her efforts serve as an inspiration for others to adopt sustainability.
 lifestyles and contribute to the well-being of our planet and our communities. I'd like to give her a moment to briefly talk about her business and what we would also like to move forward in the city of Buffalo about being more eco-friendly. Hi everyone, I'm Tracy. I'm not prepared for this.
 Well, Little Salmon is just all about engaging people on, we meet people where they are, you know, taking little steps, whether or not it's refilling your bottle, not buying like a new bottle of water. It's not about spending money to be sustainable, even though we are a business. We try to encourage people to take just little steps every day to reduce our pollution. Sorry, I'm really nervous. Nice to meet everyone.
 You did a wonderful job. You really did. Yes. And those are all values that we can hold dear in the city of Buffalo. And that's why I think it was incredibly important during Earth Month that we highlight people who are actually doing this in their own communities and coming up with ways. Because I think in the world that we live in, we want these sweeping changes super fast. But we can start one bottle at a time. Next, we have a presentation by majority leader. No, we don't. OK, we're good to go.
 On a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton Pope, seconded by Mr. Bohm, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 16th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Hearing none, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had a chance to review any of the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Item number one, funding agreement renewal city of Buffalo and Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, planning board findings for April 9th, 2024. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart.
 Header number three, report a sale portion of 270 Busty. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Header number four, report a sale portion of 416 Sweet.
 Motion to send items four and five to community development. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number six, cash flow for March 2024. Motion to send item six through and including nine to the finance committee. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 10, certificate of appointment for city auditor. Motion to send this civil service. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto.
 Atoll number 11, 2024-2025 budget hearings and workshops. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Atoll number 12, change order for access stripe citywide pavement markings. Motion to receive and file item or to approve items 12 through and including 23. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Atoll number 24, appoint fire captain. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Epperhart.
 Item number 25, food store license 1981 Fillmore. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 26, food store license 255 Ontario. Motion to approve items 26 and 27. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck.
 Item number 28, property manager license. Motion to send items 28 through 30 to legislation. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 31, auction and scrap vehicles. Motion to approve item number 31. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 32, BNFC contract extension. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 33, permission to accept EECBG funds.
 Motion to approve items 33 and 34. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 35, Certificate of Appointment. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 36, Pay-by-Sale Vendor for Park Mobile. Motion.
 Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 37, cannabis license notices. Motion to send items 37 through and including 39, to receive and file items 37 through and including 39. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 40, notice of appointments, sent provisional and permanent. Motion to send items 37 through and including 39.
 To send items 40 and 41 is civil service. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Volman. Letter number 42, notice of appointment, Council Intern 3. Motion to adopt items 42 and 43. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Letter number 44, workforce programs for high school students and adults. Motion to send education. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 item number 45 resolution request for ceasefire and gonza motion is sent to community development seconded by council member nowakowski and council member columbia kielbasa um mr chair i'd like to know why uh this item is going to the community development committee and perhaps not to another committee like our foreign relations committee
 well the foreign relations committee meeting is not currently meeting right i'm obviously being sarcastic but you know this has i don't think anything to do with community development um community development is generally about bricks and mortars um i don't think that that is where
 And this is the reason why I'm uncomfortable with this item going in front of my committee because the last time there was an item in front of us about this, people disrespected this forum by yelling and screaming because they did not know what the protocol was of this council. And I do not believe that this is an item that should go in front of community development. It may be long in front of another committee, but community development is about community
 bricks, mortars, fixing the community. It's got nothing to do with my personal opinion is on this matter. It is as where this item should be going. And I don't think it should be going in front of the Community Development Committee. We have enough developers and others that are coming into that committee that generally takes a very, very, very long time.
 And I'm just not sure why a ceasefire item should be going in front of community development any more than it should go in front of budget or somewhere else. Council Member Wyatt. Mr. Chair, if Mr. Golumbak, the chair, would not like it to go to CD, it can go to civil service. Thank you. I'm fine with that.
 I don't think it belongs there either, but I'm fine with that. Well, so what we have is an item in front of us where the public's looking to speak to the council. It's clearly not a civil service item. It's clearly not a finance item pertaining to city finances. In my estimation, community development is probably the place for it. We had caucus yesterday. That's where it was sent as a caucus yesterday, and the majority of the members were in favor of that.
 I'll be in the negative then, Mr. President. Okay. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much and the rest of the colleagues for doing what we've done for many years and send items similar, if not like this, to CD. If it wasn't finance, if it wasn't legislation, people should have a place to come and voice their concerns today.
 and have questions for the council members. I think that's part of the process. This council is the people's house. They should have a place to come and speak to the people. And I'm grateful to all the council members that have allowed them to have an audience. Whether or not we agree on everything they have to say is a separate matter, but at least they have a chance to come and speak to us. So thank you very much. And thanks my colleagues for allowing them to speak.
 Yeah. Councilmember, go on back. Why wouldn't it go to the Committee of the Whole, Mr. President?
 I mean, it seems like it would belong there just as much as it would anywhere else or nowhere else for that matter. Once again, it's not about the item itself specifically. It is about this item going to the Community Development Committee, where I just don't think it belongs any more than it does any of the other committees, finance, civil service, et cetera. Well, I would say based on your rationale that maybe it doesn't belong in any of the committees, you might have an objection regardless to where it goes. So we do want to send it somewhere. We do want to provide information.
 the platform for people to speak. As I stated a couple of weeks ago during the meeting, we didn't have an actionable item in front of us. That's why that item was received and filed, that resolution. We could not take action. I stated at that time it was not personal, it was not political. I recommended anyone who was pushing that resolution to circulate amongst council members, have meetings. I had meetings with people between that time and now, and there's an item back in front of us that we're choosing to send a
 the community development committee as a council and then next Tuesday, anyone who wants to come in and address that issue can. I'm in the negative. Motion stands to send to community development, seconded by Council Member Rivera with Council Member Golombic in the negative. Item number 46, petition special use 995 Fillmore for primary secondary school. Motion to send items 46 and 47 to legislation and the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 48 has been withdrawn. Item number 49, special use 70 West Elephant. Motion to send items 49 and 52 legislation and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, notice of status change. Motion to receive items one through including nine. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Finance. Item number 10, permission to enter into agreements for Ralph Wilson Park.
 Motion is to approve items 10 and 11. Seconded by Councilwoman Epperhart. Item number 12, second quarter gap 2023-2024. Motion is to receive and file items 12 through and including...
 35. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Community Development, item number 36, 197, 201 Brinkman and 204, 208 and 210 Sumner. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 38, Bicycle Pedestrian Advisory Board. Motion to receive in file 38 through and including 41. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 42, Amendment Report is so 13 Morley. Motion to approve item number 42, Amendment Report is so 13 Morley.
 Motion to approve items 42 through and including 45. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 46, wireless dead zone in South Buffalo. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski and just anyone in the public who's been paying attention to that issue with this dead zone in South Buffalo. I did receive word that Verizon did install a tower on top of Mercy Hospital, so that should be rectifying the situation.
 Legislation item number 47, full store license 175 Wadden. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 49, property manager license. Motion to recommit items 48 and 49. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera.
 Item number 50, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 414, Special Events. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 51, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 165-45, Journeyman Electricians. Motion to approve items 51 through 55 with conditions on 52, 53, and 55. Seconded by Councilmember Kuhnberg.
 Item number 56, special use 15, Melford, now owner, occupies short-term rental. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 57, special use 893, East Eagle. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tempom. Item number 58, Commissioner's Report for Proactive Rental Inspections. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 59, Fusler License 882, North Lake.
 Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 60, Improvement to the UDO. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Glomach.
 Resolutions item number 51 Habitat for Humanity fee waiver. Motion to approve items 51 and 52. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 53, Resolution in Opposition to Hydro-Turbine Project. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Glombeck has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. This item is about hydro turbines being put in the Niagara River just north of Unity Island. These would be somewhat catastrophic in regards to our ecology. There are shiners, little fish, that are...
 natural to that area that would be completely disrupted. This would disrupt a bird sanctuary area that we have in the Niagara River, and I'm sure that there would be other unintended consequences. There is a...
 period right now where the public can comment on this until approximately, I think, the middle of June. So that's the reason why we have this resolution in front of us. And I'd like to thank my colleagues for supporting the natural environment along the Niagara River. Item number 54, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 54 and 55. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 56, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 414, Special Events. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 57, Waive Fees for School 31, Field Day. Motion to approve items 57 and 58. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 59, Home Rule Request, Senate 8686 and Assembly 09442. Motion to adopt.
 Seconded by Councilmember Glumber. Item number 60, increase rental registration fee. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 61, local law intro number one, amend article 28, taxes and assessments. Motion to receive the bill, Rockett.
 motion to approve motion to approve seconded by council member bowman i'm in the negative with council member glenbeck in the negative mr chairman when mr reverie thank you very thank you council president um i have concerns regarding process the fact that we just received this information this week without being able to have a discussion
 regarding the reason for overriding the tax cap. I am sure the administration had the ability to do this months ago when they started to work on the budget. They don't start working on the budget a week before we vote on it. They start months ago. They know their projections. They have a capable administrative team to look at that.
 The merits on whether or not to raise the cap could have been discussed at those meetings could have gone to finance where we would have had a discussion on it. So the process I have a problem. We can't continue to set the precedent where they wait to the last minute to send us something for immediate passage.
 That's not the way to govern. And this council in the past has put the administration on notice. You can't give us something at the 11th hour and then immediate passage and we're going to go along with it. It's irresponsible on our part. We should be able to vet this information before we even pass.
 talk about the tax cap or how much we're going to raise the taxes. Obviously, there's a cap at 2%. I can only imagine that it's going to be way over 2%. And the merits of it, perhaps the administration can speak to that. They can say, well, you know, the revenues, we need revenues, we need revenues, and they've been harping on revenues for...
 forever now um but we haven't heard anything on the on the expense side what can we do on the expense side uh we talk about revenues but there's never any discussion where can we um reduce the cost of operating the city is it um
 Is it duplication? Can we eliminate certain things? What can we do to reduce the tax burden on the people? Because at the end of the day, this is a tax burden. And we're the third poorest city in the country or the fourth poorest city. We can't compare ourselves to Amherst and Tonawanda and Kenmore. They raise their tax 9%, 12%. We're the fourth poorest city in this country.
 And the burden falls on those people. And you know, at the end of the day, who the burden is going to fall on? The poorest. Because when we raise taxes, the people that are going to pay are the people that are going to be renting. The people that can barely afford it right now. And so the conversation should have been had, wasn't had. I can't support something that I haven't been able to vet yet.
 that I haven't been able to discuss. Yesterday, we talked about, and this is separate from our last discussion yesterday on whether this is for one year or it's beyond one year. So the fact that we haven't been able to vet it
 Haven't had a discussion. It's like somebody throws a contract on your lap and you don't even have time to read it. Just sign it here. That's what we're doing today. We're signing a contract without even being able to read what's in the contract.
 No responsible person does that. And we shouldn't do it as a council either. We have to set a precedent to tell the administration, if you want something passed, get it to us in time where we can read it, where we can do our due diligence. We haven't been able to do that. Based on that alone, without even getting into what the merits of the cap, which is 10%, 9%, I don't know what Amherst is, 11%.
 All I know at the end of the day, the people that are going to pay for that are the people that have the least, and those are the renters in the city of Buffalo. So I'll be in opposition that you can count me in the negative as well. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, sir. That was a nice little move. That was a real nice move. You made the motion. She approved it right away. Didn't give us a chance to ask a question or anything. Nice move. Nice move. I guess you got what you want, and you can smile about it because I think it's funny.
 It's not funny.
 because last year when we increased taxes and user fee and sewer, people were hurting. And this year, I hear that we may be going up to 8%. They won't even hurt more. But people can keep on smiling because they're getting what they want, but the people that hurt continue to hurt, and most people can care less because that was a sweet move. It's just, bam, bam, approved, and no question. Because there was a question saying, is this a one-year agreement? We didn't get that answer. But
 But that's after the fact. If it's one year, it's one year. If it's more than one year, I guess we've already approved it, even though there wasn't any conversation. So I know that you all have been talking for months. You already knew this was happening. It was not a surprise. But you couldn't have brought this forth had you not had the budget already done. And so that's shameful. And that's why people don't trust government, because we're shameful. We do things without any kind of conversation. And you want to talk about a public hearing after the fact?
 A public hearing after the fact that you've already done what you've done. And unfortunately, the council can't undo the revenues, but we can do it, undo expenses. But that's just shameful. I thought when Council President Pritchard left, he left a message saying, hey, let's continue to work on behalf of the people. But we show we're not going to work on behalf of the people. We're going to do the opposite. We're going to work on behalf of the mayor and what he wants to do. To hell with the people. Let them continue to suffer.
 People are still being evicted. People are still searching for dollars to repair their homes. We received a file item from Senator Ryan that could have helped people, but because somebody else didn't want him to get that, they received a file. But at the end of the day, he prevailed, thank goodness. He prevailed for the benefit of the people. That's why we're here. That's why we're elected, not just for our own ambitions, but for the people.
 It's shameful that we're looking to increase taxes because the budget is coming tomorrow. That's already been baked in. There were a couple of people part of the process even before then. I understand it. It's politics. It's good. At the end of the day, the people are not being served. That's the shameful part because as Council Member Ramirez said, we're the third, fourth poorest of our size. When are we going to care about the people? The people who are suffering? When? I guess that'll be never. Never.
 Even the next mayor, I guess. They won't care about the people. They'll just care about being in the position. So I'm in a negative, and I hope we can have a roll call vote to make sure that we all on record and what we approve. Because I think that's the people should know. Who's into this and who's not? Because I didn't know anything about it. I didn't know that you were praying this forth. It was just shrunk to us, and it was supposed to go to legislation like everything else. This is an important decision. A very important decision. And we just said...
 without having any conversation debate? That's shameful. First, I would ask the question of Corporation Council, since it's been brought up several times, is this item being approved in authorization to exceed the tax cap for one year? Assistant Corp. Counsel Karen Gordon, yes. Thank you. Secondly, I just want to address some of the things that were just stated by my colleague. This is the 61st
 item we've heard today. I think the previous 60 were all motioned and an action taken on them. And then some people followed up with conversation. So that's not new. So maybe you could pay attention to the proceedings that are taking place. As far as people baking this and a couple people maybe participating in this behind the scenes, when this was brought to me last Wednesday, yes, get your say in and then leave. Very mature.
 When you get, when I, this was brought to me on Thursday and I filed it, I called members of the council immediately to let them know. The only person I did not speak to was Council Member White because he's not an active participant in government. If you don't want to answer calls, texts, emails, things of that nature and take part in government, you're not going to come down here and criticize me for it. And you're not going to impute my integrity saying I've been doing this for months when this was brought to my attention on Thursday. Okay.
 So again, this is a conversation about whether this city has the authorization to exceed the tax cap one year. There is no guarantee if it will exceed it, and if it does, at what rate it would exceed it. It simply gives this council all the tools necessary it might need to authorize and adopt a budget in the next few weeks.
 i am simply making sure that this council is in a position to do anything and everything it might need to to make sure that city services are delivered on behalf of the city of buffalo and its residents and nothing else council member norkowski
 Thank you, Mr. President. So multiple things can be true at the same time. And I am the finance chair and I take my duty very seriously. And I take being able to take this information and digest it so people and know what we're doing. So the fact of the matter is, is the Niagara District Council member is completely correct. This, this internally should have been brought to us in February when people are working on the budget and we should have been able to vet it in my committee. That is completely true. The other thing is, is.
 That's completely true, is this city is going to face a fiscal crisis because of the gaps, the severe looming budget gaps that we have as a city. And when politicians want to score points by saying I kept taxes low, my answer is always, my question back is always at the expense of whom and what? Emergency services, investment in parks, purchase of equipment, infrastructure, lighting, sidewalk repair, you name it.
 That money has to be derived from somewhere. And some people have been on this council for decades. And our revenue stayed the same. Our expenses went up. And we used savings to cover those budget holes. I came here on this Common Council with the Niagara District Council member, Brian Bowman, and Rasheed Wyatt. And we passed a law that knew that we had to have savings because this day was going to come.
 This was only that we would have been here and we weren't here in 2020. We had a looming $56 million budget hole, but we were saved by the ARP dollars that were used to fill budget holes. It's like running your household. If your salary stays the same and your expenses go up, how do you make your obligations in your payments? Do you put it on a credit card? Do you ask for a loan from your parents? Do you get a second job? It's the same thing that we have to do as an municipality. Right.
 It's easy for I've been in politics since I was 18 years old. It's easy for people to get behind a podium and a grandstand and to say cute tweets.
 It's hard work to actually work here. And I'd like to the public to also know his finance chair is that the council's power is amending the budget that the mayor proposes. The mayor proposes a budget tomorrow per the charter. If the Common Council votes it down, you know what that means? The Common Council didn't do its job because if this budget doesn't, it goes down and is voted down, that means the mayor's proposed budget with his proposed tax increase stays down.
 I urge every single one of my colleagues to roll up their sleeves for the next 30 days to be actively participating in negotiations. And if the mayor proposes a 20 percent tax freeze, we need to work to propose it and to bring it down. But we only do that by having a majority of members that bring to consensus, because the fact of the matter is we don't live in candy land. The money has to come from somewhere. If we don't have state aid, if our cannabis dollars are not coming in, if our sales tax is not coming in the way it is, we have budget gaps.
 You're right. We should be critical of maybe tax exemptions that we give to developers 10 years ago that are providing us bupkis now. We should criticize those things. But we have to have a hearty conversation and have those conversations because it's easy to speak your piece and leave. But it's hard to sit down here and work. I look forward for the next 30 days to work with each and every one of my colleagues. Thank you, Mr. President. Majority Leader. Thank you, Mr. President. I concur with my colleagues.
 The timeliness is concerning, especially given that one should probably know what the law is. And if we needed to pass a law to increase a property or a tax cap, we needed a local law change. And so that concerns me. However, this is not the end of it. There is a public hearing that is not on the Common Council, but rather the administration. And so the administration, the next step after passing this has been
 to hold a public hearing where the city of Buffalo has the opportunity to ask him directly, why do you need to do an increase over the current cap? And that is the next step. And I don't believe that that should take
 longer than it takes us to pass the actual budget. And so my recommendation would be to the administration to have that within the guidelines, which I think you have to notice it within five days. I would hope that the administration would do that in the next week that they would notice the public and that the public would show up and show out and communicate and ask the administration, what's the purpose? And I'm certain after he does his proposal tomorrow,
 there will be answers to them. There will be additional questions that can be asked at that time. As for me, I intend to roll up my sleeves, as my colleague said. I'm here to work, and I'm
 This budgets are hard. These are proposals. It's a working document. And I'm here to do the work of the people, those who voted me in. This is why I'm here. I'm not a rubber stamp, as others may have indicated or intend to. I'm here to work, period. End of story. And I'm grateful to do that for the community that I serve and for the entire city of Buffalo. Thank you. Council Member Glenberg.
 thank you question for our corporation council if we did not vote for this today what would happen what what would be the ramifications
 Assistant Corp. Congressman Karen Gordon, that's kind of like a broad question, so should I just answer it broadly? I guess the question is this, is that the budget that is going to be given to us tomorrow, I'm assuming, is going to go over the 2% cap. Would the administration have to redo the entire budget book by tomorrow in that regard, if we vote no? So hypothetically, if...
 So hypothetically, the budget cannot be approved beyond what the tax cap is, right? We cannot have a budget beyond what the tax cap is by law. If there is one, and let's say this local law is not approved, but
 let's say the Common Council decides to deny the mayor's budget or you vote it down, then as the council member previously stated, then the mayor budget remain, and you would have a budget that is beyond the tax cap. And then what would eventually happen, the numbers that are beyond what is legally allotted for would basically be
 go into a system of reserve. And I don't exactly know what that means. I would have to look into that a little bit more. But it's very hypothetical. So I cannot give you a concrete answer exactly as to what would end up happening. But it would be a very tricky situation.
 uh mr president i'm gonna vote no on this for a couple of reasons and one of them is is that i don't know what the proposal is right now and as my colleagues said you know this is something that the administration probably has known for months if not for weeks
 um by voting if i was to vote yes today does that mean that i'm giving them carte blanche to go up 20 percent 18 i mean the rumor is nine percent um if i knew what the budget looked like right now if i knew that there were cuts that were made if i knew that there were no additions that were added
 to this, I would be more amenable to consider a yes vote. But without knowing that, I don't feel in good conscience that I can vote yes, so I am a no vote. Council Member Wyatt. I'm not going to respond back to you, sir. I'm going to leave what you have to say in the air. But I did ask for a roll call vote. That's why I came back. So can we have the roll call vote? President Pro Tem Bowman. Yes. Council Member Everhart. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Approved. Council Member Golombic. No.
 Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Council Member Nowakowski. Approved. Council Member Rivera. Council President Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. No. 6-3. The vote passes 6-3. Next item. Item number 62. Item number 62, set public hearing on Restore New York Grant Application for Statler Hotel. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Header number 63, wait fees for North Park Baseball opening day and parade. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, May 7, 2024 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, May 7, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, May 7, 2024 at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, May 7, 2024 at 2 p.m.
 Budget hearings will begin Thursday, May 2nd, 2024 at 10 a.m. going through to 2 p.m. and resume on Friday, May 3rd, 2024 at 10 a.m. to 2 o'clock p.m. Budget workshops will begin Wednesday, May 8th, 2024 at 10 a.m. through 2 p.m. and resume Thursday, May 9th, 2024 at 10 a.m.
 Public hearing for the budget for the public will be Wednesday, May 15, 2024 at 5 p.m. Council members announcements for districts. Councilwoman Everhart.
 Thank you, Council President. Just a quick reminder for our Mass. and District residents, there will be no Mass. and District breakfast on Saturday, May 11th. We will be having the Buffalo Black Caucus at Canisius University at the Student Center all day from 10 to 4. There will be breakfast there. So please join us over there. And anyone listening, you are welcome to join us. That'll be it. Thank you. No others? Majority Leader?
 Yes, for all young people who are entrepreneurs, please reach out to Ellicott District 1 at buffalony.gov to sign up. We are having a youth extravaganza where we are highlighting our young entrepreneurs on June the 29th. Please sign up to sell your wares. Thank you. There's nothing else. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by President Pro Tempoman.