Wingo? Present. Congressman Wyatt? Here. Warren, present. Let's stand for the plan. To the plan of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our guest chaplain today is Pastor Kynzer, and pointer of the Agape Fellowship Baptist Church that I believe is in the University District, or Love Church. Neither. Oh, Fillmore. All right, in the Fillmore district. Come on down to the floor. Because you are a pastor, you are no stranger to microphones not working correctly. Thank you. Let us pray. Eternal God, the one who made the earth and everything in it, the world and all of its inhabitants, the one who laid the foundation on the seas and established it on the rivers, we again bow humbly before you. in this August body, giving you thanks that you are granted unto us yet another day. As we have come forward to engage in conversation and debate, to do the people's business, make us truly mindful that there are those among us who are suffering mightily, whose voices are often muted, and whose visages are often invisible. So show us, O Lord, what is that good and perfect thing in your sight. Open our ears and our hearts, and not only would we see suffering, but that we would be sensitive to it, and sensibly moved to eradicate it from our society. We pray, oh God, with those who are suffering, not just in this municipality, but the world over, that your presence will be better manifested when we determine that we will use our hand to come to their aid. And then make us to know our place, to understand our end, and let our living be to the glory of thy great name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. No questions. We, um, memorials, members? It's Easter. It's Easter. Everyone is alive. zero deaths that we know of from our military. We know that right now going on in Venezuela, there is some upheaval, so we're praying for the people there. And of course, all of our servicemen and women who serve our country and fight for protection of others. We pause in each chamber for a moment of silence. Thank you. You may take your seat. We have a special presentation the president pro temp scam thank you council president With us today we have Chris Mathias of Buffalo Youth Lacrosse and the Western New York Lacrosse Foundation and other representatives and players from the organizations. And they have a very important day and an important event coming up in the next couple of weeks. And I'm going to let Chris talk about that a little bit in a minute. But before we get into that, I just want to delve into some of the things that these amazing organizations are doing. 15 years ago, Chris founded Buffalo Youth Lacrosse, which is an amazing youth organization whose participants benefit from all the things that youth sports and organized sports provide. They see an improved health, an increase in self-esteem, they learn teamwork, social skills, things of that nature, and education. It goes on and on. But then a few years ago, Chris noticed that there was a segment of the population that wasn't being exposed to lacrosse and all the benefits of it. And in 2016, they founded the Western New York Lacrosse Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization whose goal is to support and grow the game of lacrosse by providing financial and programming support to youth and academic-based organizations emphasizing underserved and minority populations. Chris is another one of these amazing Buffalonians, another one of these amazing Western New Yorkers who saw an inequity and is trying to right it. And, you know, they go out and, again, they serve these populations that were not being exposed to this sport, providing them with equipment, with teams to play on, with teammates, and ultimately friends. They're doing wonderful things in the community and also, in addition to that, providing support services for academics to them as well. So I want to thank Chris for everything he's doing. And on May 25th at 716 Sports down at Harbor Center, it's going to be national – Youth Lacrosse Day in Buffalo. And I have a proclamation here that I just want to read the bottom of it. And that the common, now therefore be it proclaimed that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo recognize the countless hours and immense efforts that Chris Mathias and and the Western New York Lacrosse Foundation have given to the city of Buffalo and the broader community by proclaiming Saturday, May 25, 2019, as Youth Lacrosse Day in the city of Buffalo. It is through their example that we are reminded that one coach, one teammate, one practice, one game can change a child's life for the better. So again, I want to thank Chris and the Western New York Lacrosse Foundation for everything that you guys are doing, and I wish you the best on May 25th for your special event. Thank you. I'll be very brief because I just want to thank you all for taking the time to support us. We're a great group of people. And one thing I would add, if anyone's interested, Chris hosted some clinics in our district to kind of get the word out and show the support to the kids, provided equipment for them and everything like that. So if anyone's interested, please feel free to reach out to the organization because they were wonderful clinics. So again, thank you for coming today and the best of luck on the 25th. Thank you. That was great. Thank you. Chris. I got a big family. Good luck with everything. President Prokofiev, do you play lacrosse? No, I was just Sean Mulligan from Council Member Rivera's office was just explaining to me growing up on Long Island, he was quite the lacrosse player. But by the time I got into like middle of high school, it was just picking up at my school, so it was a little too late for me. Okay. never too late yeah Joe Colombo can do it you know it's the phone a motion by mr. Rivera second by mr. Scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 16 2019 are approved If there are any late files, they are all before you. Any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda that is before you, not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to read something that you did not have a chance to. Are we going from the top majority meeting? We have item 50, all right. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 55 out of order. Thank you. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 55, discharge. Item 19-612 from Legislation Committee. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion to approve. Item 1, New York State Climate Smart Communities Pledge. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 2, approve LDA Buffalo Federation Neighborhood Centers. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 3, various Delavanese Designated Developer Agreement. Motion to approve items 3 through 5. My council member, Brian Zett. Item 6, report of sale 262 South Hampton. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 7, rescind the sale 412 Goodyear. Motion to approve items 7 and 8. second by councilmember Golombic item 9 appointed to HUD the grant program manager motion to send the civil service second by councilmember Wyatt from the controller item 10 certificate determination bond anticipation note motion to receive and file second by councilmember Wyatt item 11 appointed to financial operations administration motion to send the civil service second by councilmember Figueredo from the council president item 12 common council budget workshop schedule Motion to send to Committee of the Whole, Items 12 and 13. Began by President Proulx. Item 14, Notification and Stereo. Motion to receive and file. Began by Councilman Golombi, Collegiate Floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to request that we waive the 45-day wait period for the Manton and Howell Street items. um this has been something that i've been working on with the department of public works and parking violations this is the one block area off of chandler street between chandler and groat we've had a lot of parking issues there with the resurgence the unbelievable growth of chandler street and this will give us by making each of these one block areas one way it's going to give us approximately 14 or more car spots in that immediate neighborhood, which is a huge problem. Coupled with this, eventually Mr. Termini is going to have a lot in that immediate area as well, where there's going to be 120 spots. spots roughly. So we're hoping that, you know, with each of these little things that happens, it will alleviate the bigger problems, you know, down the road. Absolutely. So you're asking for a waiver of the 45 days on 19-643? Yes, thank you. Which is met in place. Let the motion reflect that. Look, 641 through 646. Okay, all the way down. Yeah. 641, 646, 45-day waiver. uh waiver on the 45 day second by councilman phillip council president is that six four one all the way down through six five two six five one no it's just six four six six four zero to six four six only item fourteen is in front right six nineteen six four zero uh wave forty five days yeah Well, let's wait. So the request is that all of these items, the 45-day waiver, would be... Motion is to waive the 45-day period items. Item 14. Second by Council Member... Second stand. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 15, changing contract engine 22, partially reconstructed. Motion to approve items 15 through 20. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 21, appointment maintenance assistant. Motion to send civil service. Seconded by Council Member Friar Leto. Item 22, drug-acid corpus to wiretap. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 23, appointing emergency services fire dispatch. Motion to send civil service items 23 and 24. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 25... Contract City of Buffalo to file dismantling for demo 1323 Broadway. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 26, food store license 2272 Senate. Motion to send legislation items 26 and 27. Seconded by Council Member Fierle. Item 28, secondhand dealer 363 Grand Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 29, used car dealer 1492 East Ellicott. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 30, special event fee waiver. the acceptance of receiving file uh motion to receive and file second by council member fontana item 31 liquor license application motion to receive and file items 31 through 34. thank you my counselor wingo item 35 notice department counseling sir motion to adopt my customer friends that I'm very ticked up a primate season ocean send the motion to receive and file thank my councilman ponton explaining items item 37 student letter what village Carter ocean to receive and file taking my council member friends at 138 proposed Airbnb like motion to send legislation second by councilman fairlady 139 the didn't salary view quick report on recommendation motion to send the finance second by councilman Fontana and just so that the public knows this will be in finance and discussed on May 7 be open for public to discuss May the 7th at our committee meeting at 10 a.m. and the only thing I will say about this is and I've been very public about this is the Commission I think did a tremendous job in putting together a report that is easy to read and also has the justification for their recommendation I personally am looking at the school board stipend because that stipend has been the same since the school board was actually created. in 1974 and it has not moved yet gas prices have moved and a lot of other prices have moved and we know that it's only a stipend but just so that the public knows this will be discussed May 7 2019 next Tuesday at our finance meeting next item 140 brownfield clean up public comment except in 990 Niagara motion to receive and file second my council member Wingo and 41 conditions for 170 hamster food store life uh motion to approve with condition the store closes at midnight all right second by council member wyatt petitions item 42 special use 25 25 delaware motion send legislations item 42 through 45. second by council member for your letter committee civil service i don't want to point motion to approve items number one second second by councilmember franzette thank you notice the appointment temporary provisional permanent motion to receive and file second by councilmember delambe the petitions for legislation it wasn't called out all right just for the record um it is marked for legislative items 42 through 45 is marked for legislation and city planning board although it was not called out um it was the intent that it would go to Next item. Finance Committee, item three, single source purchase, food waste collection service. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item four, second order gap year 2018-2019. Receive and file. Seconded by President Prokofiev. Item five, city lawn care. Well, number three, motion to receive and file. We're going to have a companion item coming up in about two weeks on restricting the use of pesticides on the behalf of residents. It won't be mandatory, but we're going to ask residents to restrict the use of pesticides. There's some new evidence coming forward that the blooms in Lake Erie are getting bigger, closer to Cleveland, and we never want that problem coming this way. So we're going to do a resolution, and maybe Council Member Wyatt and Mr. Franczak and I will sponsor that resolution in a couple weeks. But for now, the motion is to receive in files five and six. all right second by council member white community development committee item 7 reporter sale 447 berkshire motion to approve item number seven taken by council member white and eight fair housing report motion receive and file and my council member wingo item 9 reporter sale portion of 428 Glenwood motion to approve 9 and 10 all right with the conditions that are on the record second back council member wingo item 11 if the aqua Motion to receive and file. Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee Item 12, property manager's license. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 13, restaurant dance license, 875 Bailey. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by Council Member Fontana. 14 restaurant dance license 21 78 there are no objections motion to improve items 14 through 17 I'm a teen orders member chapter 264 rental dwelling unit registration motion to recommit by council member for your letter item 19 you submit 368 grant motion to approve second by the majority leader Revere Item 20 zoning map amendment 15 51 87 125 laborers way motion to recommit by president pro temp scandal Item 21, special use permit 464, Leroy. Motion to deny with cause. Apparently the applicant never followed up with the planning board or followed up with the district councilman. All right. Motion to deny based on those reasons. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 22, ordinance and act with Chapter 346, public facility sports theater artistic revitalization. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item 23, attorney access. Well, I think it's a good idea. So I don't want to make a motion on it. I'd make a motion to adopt. I think the motion was received in file. I think that Checkpoint Charlie, if people are vetted like attorneys, so I actually agree with Mr. Wingo on that. So you want somebody else to make the motion? I'll make a motion to adopt. Well, I'm not sure that'll pass. I know it won't. I'd let somebody else make a motion. Majority Leader? Motion to receive in file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. In the negative. Councilmember Franczak, Wingo, and Golumbik in the negative. No, no, no, I'm not in the negative. Oh, you're not in the negative. I'm not in the negative, no. You're not in the negative on this. It's my resolution, no, no, no. I actually agree with that. Yeah, no, he's not in the negative either, but listen, the reason why this is proposed is because, you know, a lot of attorneys do a lot of business here in City Hall, and we know who they are. And they've had to go through great lengths to get the credit that they do have. So being that they do a lot of business here, I think they have a lot to lose should they compromise Their their standing in the community by doing something nefarious here at City Hall So that's why this is this was proposed in and out all the time We know these folks, you know So at the end of the day them having to go through the check-in at the beginning Front door or the back door side doors. I just thought it'd be a good idea for us to make sure that we gave them some type of access to the building since they do a lot of business here and Other than that, it may not approve, but at least I presented it to make sure that we all understood that we appreciate it. So Council Member Franczak and Golombek in the negative. Correct. And in the negative. Hey, one more. It's a real, it's a. It's a party. Well, the only reason, I mean, hearing from our corporation counsel and our corporation counsel being concerned of attorneys just having access into the building and coming up to the floor when they may be seeing litigants or people in cases was really the main reason that I'm not in support of it. All right, next item. Item 24, special use 3171, a.k.a. 3173, Maine. motion to recommit second we discharged that didn't we Jerry yeah this is what we do with it it was this so I'd say recommit and there's this chart so what do we do with it this is from University yeah what's your desire councilmember Do you want this to go back to committee? All right. The motion is to recommit. Second. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Education Committee Item 25, support for the 5x25 campaign. Motion is to adopt. All right. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Resolution to Item 46, Council Member Tuller-Ron Key waiver. Motion to approve Items 46 through 51. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 52, National Field Community Outreach. Motion to send to CD. All right. Second by Councilmember Fontana, I just want to speak on this. This is about all of the work that is going on in the city with National Fuel digging up lawns. And in certain neighborhoods, as I learned yesterday, some neighborhoods are having great success in having the lawns put back together in the same season. And then other communities are not. For instance, Northampton and other streets, at least in the Ellicott District, and I had a 90, was she 90? 90 years old woman call me, and we know how many of our seasoned citizens are about their lawns, as they should be, and her summer activities, her flowers, her lawns, and she has heard nothing like I have heard nothing and my neighbors have heard nothing. The church parking lot, they came and ripped up the line and put dirt back where there was blacktop. And so now we have a big swimming pool that we can't utilize for the cars. And no response. We sent a certified letter, not one response from National Fuel. We're thankful for the change, thankful for the lines being improved, but those lines shouldn't be, the neighborhood should be treated with respect. You rip up a neighborhood last summer, last spring, and we have not seen you come back to put the grass back and take care of neighborhoods or even communicate with people. And if council members can't get in touch, the neighbors are really suffering councilmember wingo thank you mr chair mr president listen i i would like for you to add me to your resolution uh because i absolutely agree that uh these utility companies should have more accountability as it relates to their social responsibility and their corporate responsibility to the residents that are the reason they're in business. Number one, I actually had National Fuel come out and put a meter in the driveway of, well, they put bollards right outside the meter in the driveway. My neighbor and I share a driveway. This is my own personal anecdote. And it took them a year to come back. and repair my driveway. And I do realize that some of the work is necessary. It's a preventative measure, it's a proactive measure, so that if, you know, someone pulls up in a driveway, they don't just run into the gas line to my neighbor's house. The problem is it took them a year to come back and repair what they tore up in my driveway. Now my driveway has all types of issues because of the water that's gotten up underneath my driveway. There have been numerous calls into my office as well as it relates to folks' lawns being tore up because of the utilities. Utility companies going in their backyard. Of course, we talked about National Grid just last week. Not being responsive to neighbors and having a policy that doesn't benefit the folks Well, the reason why they're in business as well, so if you would please sir add me to your resolution or appreciate it and The seed let's talk about that that's put down to replace the grass that was tore up It's not the same grass And and now they're growing weeds in their front yard and that's not fair to the folks in the Mastin district in the Ellicott district and whichever other district is adversely affected with the The I would say egregious acts of national fuel. So at the end of the day sir I actually agree with the resolution. I would like to be out. Thank you. Thank you sir councilmember Fontana my good friends Dave and Joe will tell you that we used to have Patti Paul Patti Paul Patty Paul walked down memory lane. She was fantastic. She was at every council meeting and she was National Fuels Government Relations person. Wow. When was the last time you seen a government relations person around here when they don't need something? She was here at every single meeting, whether she needed something or not. Wow. She would come and attend the meetings and then they gave her a bigger service area and she ended up not being able to come as often but we still had her number. Now there is a new guy I don't remember his name. Brian has it at the office. I'll give you the number so you can call him directly. I called him last week on another topic or a street that I forget, but Council Member Wingo is right. They plant chickweed. That's what they plant. It's just disgusting. I recommend to the people, if they're able to, take the buyout. Ask them not to have it repaired. that you'll repair it yourself and see what the buyout number is. Sometimes you'll be surprised how high it is and you could have someone do it yourself or do it yourself. The 90 year old woman probably not in that situation, so National Fuels should have a program that works much quicker for residents and businesses and churches in the city of Buffalo. But I'll get you the number for the new government relations guy. He was responsive to my phone call. Which is good. But they did say it was a private contractor that did the work. It was up to them. So that was a little confusing because normally National Field took all the responsibility. Now it seems like they're farming it out to the companies that are doing it. So there's a two-tier system where there never was a two-tier system before. Whoever they had to do the work before, they would just handle it. Now they're pushing it off saying, oh, that was a private contractor doing work for us. And that was a little confusing on the phone. But I'll get you his number, and we'll go from there. But if Patty Paul was around, this would not be happening. Yeah, and they, at least on my street, it is a private company. And, for instance, they're dumping, they dumped, they dug up the street. and all the debris, they put on my property without permission. Then when I asked them to move it, it took a week. And it damaged the property. There's city property across the street, their parking, it was nice grass. It's all torn up. So I don't think any neighborhood, regardless of whether it's the neighborhood I live in, no neighborhood And I just have a, should have to go through that without any communication. And it's really a shame we have to get the number and other council members offered us the number because we sent a certified, did we send a certified? We sent a letter, send another one certified today, please, with about next week. We sent a letter still to this moment. from the city council, we have received no response. So I'm sure that 90-year-old, and I don't care if it's 90 or 40-year-old, you own property, we are grateful, as Councilmember Wingo said, for them being proactive, but that doesn't mean we should be on our knees begging for them to come back and fix it. Our kids deserve to play in the same green grass. Every other they sure do and then one of these one of these contractors dumped two truckloads of Phil that they dug up at 167 Newburgh Street and they didn't know that we had a camera across the street at school and we were able to go to the school and get the video footage of the truck dumping it, get the license plate, and I called the owner of the company today, and he assured me that he would go back to 167 Newburgh and clean up that lot for us, which is a lot that I had done a lot of years ago. So it's continued where they are dumping the fill on property that they have not even asked the owners. It's wrong and it's arrogant. Truly. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't seem that these public utilities respect our residents. Whether it's Spectrum or it's National Grid or it's National Fuel, it seems as though they give us the same old okey-doke. They give us an excuse. Last two weeks ago, well, last week at committee, the representative from National Grid was given this excuse why they couldn't, why they couldn't remove these limbs that they were cutting down from someone's yard. And they made an agreement throughout their organization that, oh, we wouldn't remove it because one person or two people may have said they wanted the wood. But that's not a good enough answer. And here we go again. They're digging up our lawns. They dug up my lawn. They had it bare for a couple of weeks. I didn't want the seed that they gave me, but they gave me seed. I had to put my own money and repair it. I repaired it with my own money, additional grass seed and watering. Then they come back a week later, and they did some additional work. And tore up the lawn again. And now I'm still sitting right now waiting for my lawn, just like others on Eggert Road, waiting for their lawns. And we have not heard not a peep from them that we're going to be back in the spring, we're going to be back in two weeks. Nothing. When they first came and started doing the work, I asked them. You're doing this work because I woke up and I'm like, what is going on? Oh, we're repairing the lines. We're putting higher pressure. Well, did you send any notices out to anyone? Oh yeah, we sent out a notice. I didn't get one. No one got notice. And I asked the gentleman, I said, sir, if you need my office to work with you, let us know because it's not right that you have all these plans, you're digging up lines, you give us no timetable. Then you had to turn off people's gas. Not notifying them when the gas is gonna be turned off and when it's gonna be turned back on I just happen to see them and ask the questions But other people who come home in the evening and looking to take a shower or whatever and they don't have any gas and they're thinking Hey, my gas has been turned off no notification. So that's total disrespect that This is an in-depth process. They need to be in front of it. Their public relations person should be going door to door, sitting flyers, whatever they need to do. But they should not mistreat us like that. We are residents. We pay their bills and they treat us like we don't exist, that they're on the island by themselves. So I want to support your letter that's going to National Fuel. these all public service entities should be coming and being respectful to the residents. It seems over and over again they have no respect for us. They do whatever they want and we have to suffer with it. So I'm with you on this particular one and we want them to come and give us an answer. So what is the process? How will they notify our residents? Because they shouldn't see blindsided. They shouldn't come home one day and not have electric, I mean gas, or another day come home and their lawns are torn up and not know when you're going to come back to repair them. That's not right. These are their homes. Respect them. Give them the information. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Council Member Winkle? Mr. President, and just listening to my colleague, Council Member Rashid, NCY, I would like to know if it is possible for that letter that's sent out today, tomorrow, that's going to be certified. if we all nine members can sign that letter. Because what I'm beginning to feel is, though, if you send a letter, naturally, of course, you are the spokesperson for the Common Council. We've elected you to be that person. However, I think it would send more of a clear message if even the councilmatic districts who don't necessarily have this problem as frequently as other councilmatic districts do, I think it would send a clear message that we're all on the same page and that they need to... kind of do better, no, they need to do better than what they've been doing. So if it's possible, I don't know how my colleagues feel about that, if everyone would be willing to sign the certified letter going out. Whenever we send out a letter like this, i think all nine of us need to sign it not just you're enough council president but i'm that but i would like for us to uh to be unified when we send those letters out so what i'll do is have council after meeting whole council member individual council members and not ask them on the floor and then those who want to be a part of that letter will have them thank you yes councilman fontana just to add insult to injury here the cable company let's get them at the same time we're writing letters they You're gonna love this one. They turned off the cable to all of our city community centers and senior centers. They turned it off. Because they started sending us erroneous bills for the cable boxes that we were talking about in our committees They started sending bills right to the centers where no one's gonna pay them Of course not that we should pay them, but they sent them anyways in the franchise agreement It guarantees us the right to have cable television for the kids to watch come into the community centers and for our seniors to watch come into the senior centers because they're using our Street poles to run the lines it's in the agreement that they signed and they had the audacity to turn off that cable well you don't think it's because you told them you that they put us in siberia dude now i mean i'm not saying that for the record i'm just asking you the question you like that one darryl um but when it comes down to it we're gonna send a letter on that too so i just wanna let everybody know what's we're getting treated by all the utilities like this yep because they make their money they make we're kind of held hostage next item 153 commissioner deed Motion to adopt items 53 through 55. Second by Council Member White. 156, University District Open Market Key Waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. The House Committee Meeting. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, May 7th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, May 7th, 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, May 7th, 2 p.m. council members any announcements for your districts or briefly visit any item council member wingo yes thank you uh The Madison District Stakeholders Meeting, of course, is again the second Saturday of May. That will be the 11th at 8.30. We have quite a few presenters to come and disseminate information and give us some great information on initiatives and other programs that are in our district, one of which we want to try to promote where you can actually qualify, if you live in the city of Buffalo, for a free desktop computer. Come Saturday, May 11th at 8.30 at the Delavan Grider Center to find out more information regarding this program. We're going to have a representative coming, Ms. Lillian. Griffin she's going to be coming to speak about that issue as well as other programs that are Available to the residents of the city of Buffalo and this is why we open this program up this meeting Stakeholders meeting to the city of Buffalo because the information just doesn't impact Mastin residents we host a meeting we feed you a nice hot breakfast But the meeting is really geared for every single person who lives in the city of Buffalo to