Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombic. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council president Pritchett. I key. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council member Winkle. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 to the Republic of which it stands. As we remain standing for the council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, council president. When I got here today and
 A little present was awaiting me because today is my 68th birthday. Instead of getting somebody else to open council today, I wanted to be here myself. I'm grateful and I know they stayed under the limit, Council President. We're not going to prison. Good news. But thank you so much and thank you for the honor and privilege it is to be among you.
 I picked the kind of scripture you'd think I would pick on a day that is my birthday. I picked Psalm 90, verse 12. Teach us to number our days aright, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. And if I, Deb, if I did this right, I numbered my days, I think it's 24,837.
 And that's figuring leap years every fourth year. So I think I'm at 24,837 days. It's interesting that in the scripture, numbering days and gaining wisdom are linked. I hope that's true. I sincerely hope so.
 I've met some people that had age that weren't necessarily wise, and that's tragic when that happens, because the accumulation of years is meant to be more than just physical age. It's meant to bring a certain decorum and wisdom to my walk, because I've been through storms. I've seen the ups. I've experienced the downs, and in all of those, I've seen God's faithfulness, and there are things that I had when I started pastoring when I was 23 years old
 I had an energy level I don't have any longer, but at 68, wisdom is supposed to then match up. As energy maybe takes a step down, wisdom is supposed to take a massive step up. You say it's just a number. It is just a number. But if it links with wisdom, I want to say may it be so of me and of each of us, that wisdom and numbering of our days are linked together.
 So how many days have you served as a council member? How much wisdom have you gained on that journey? Because it should be the same for all of us, right? Not just for me. The longer you serve, the more wisdom you should gain, and the more that should enrich the pool of wisdom for those here on the Common Council.
 So I'm going to pray in just a moment for wisdom for us. James 1.5, a scripture that many of you would be familiar with. If any of you lacks wisdom, ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, will be given to him. This is budget month. There are times that you're going to need to lean into God for some wisdom as you're making very serious and important and essential decisions for the city and the citizens of our city. So asking God for wisdom is a really healthy response when you get overwhelmed.
 But the other thing I want to add to prayer today is Ukraine, as we've been praying here at the Council for Ukraine and everything that's happening. But this morning I was in an Uber and the driver was from Sri Lanka. And Sri Lanka is in the crisis of all crises. They're in an economic and political meltdown, protests everywhere, and he still has family there.
 So as he told me his story, as he drove me, I want to make sure that we know we've got Sri Lankans and people from all over the world here who every day, not just Ukrainians, they specifically, but other people groups whose countries, their homelands are in massive meltdown crises, and their heart is half here and half there like ours would be. Would you bow with me in prayer? Father, I thank you that you said that as you number our days,
 Lord, I know that this is an old, old city, and it's been around a lot of days, but Lord, none of us have been around as long as the city, but we've been around. And use link in Psalm 90, the number of our days and the heart that is gained of wisdom. Lord, I pray for each on the council that the longer they serve, the wiser they'll become, the better at decision-making that
 benefits the citizens of the city of Buffalo. I pray for unusual wisdom now coming into budget month and all that that entails, all the extra burden of each and every council member in the season that they're in right now. And I pray, you said if we lack wisdom, so Lord, if any of these our leaders lack wisdom, I ask divine download of wisdom to them today. And Lord, I lift up
 Ukraine, I lift up Sri Lanka, and those in this city who come from a country that right now is in massive crisis with family members on the ground there. Lord, I pray for freedom to prevail, freedom to win the day. Thank you, Father, for your goodness, regardless of earthly circumstances. Let us hear your voice and step in. I pray in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain, Council Members, Memorials.
 Council Member Golumbik. Thank you, Mr. President. First off, I think most of us know Lenny Tempestoso works for the City of Buffalo. His mother, Maria, passed away. She's gonna be very, very sorely missed. And then also, of course, our colleague, Chris Scanlon, his dad passed away this past week. The funeral was this morning. And it was interesting to be down there
 to be it was my first time ever in St. Tommy's Church and I was sort of surprised because I'm a very badly practicing Catholic but I've been at a lot of different churches in the area and I do enjoy church architecture and architecture in general but it was like a who's who of
 the old buffalo in many regards and the new buffalo with uh you know chris and his sister and brothers and their uh friends that were there um but it was interesting to listen to the eulogies and the sermon of father paul sile uh the things that mr scanlon skanutz had done
 to help people, you know, from his community. And it was just interesting from, you know, just for me as a history person, you know, to look around and think about how many people's lives were touched by Chris's dad and that had jobs, had good middle class upbringings whose children got to go to college and so on and so forth. So it was it was just it was interesting and it was bittersweet, you know, but we're
 I think we're better people for people like that in all of our different diverse communities that look out for our specific neighborhoods, our communities, et cetera. So my condolences go out to Chris and the rest of the family. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was also at the ongoing celebration for Council Member Scanlon's dad and Chris
 had given one of the most beautiful eulogies I had ever heard in my life. And coming from a person who had to eulogize his own father, I know how hard that was. And because of the life that his father lived, I never met his father, but I thank God his father produced people like Christopher Scanlon. I understand Chris a lot better just from hearing him talk about his father.
 I understand the family a lot better by hearing his brothers and his sister talk about their dad. And then the way they talked about his father, even after the stroke, still would exude strength. It takes a son to see his dad go from a superhero to that state to appreciate Chris' eulogy. So today, I give my own condolences to Chris and his mother,
 and his family, all of his brothers and his sister. And I want them to know that they are absolutely in my prayers. Thank you. Thank you. I think all of us have reached out to council members Scanlon in this hour. Um, heard several of you, including myself, about quick
 He returned the call or the text even while he was mourning his dad and Chris' father. Huge, not only in South Buffalo, but huge in our city.
 and many people have worked, retired, because of his advocacy for people. And many people still are reaping the benefits from such a giant as John Scanlon. So we know that his chair is obviously, Chris' chair is obviously empty today, but I think all of our hearts in this chamber
 who know Chris, even if we did not meet his dad, we know how much he and his family loved John Scanlon. So I would ask that we would dedicate this meeting today in memory of Mr. John Scanlon. And as we always do, we remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries around this globe today.
 around this world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a special presentation from Council Member Joel P. Ferraletto. Trying to come down. So in the last several council meetings we've had, if you can come on down and join us.
 The last few council meetings we've talked about refugees quite a bit I know Council President was talking about Ukraine, I know last I think it last Council meeting Council Member Rivera introduced a resolution and.
 Reflecting on that, I was thinking of a wonderful organization, and it is one of my favorite not-for-profits in the city of Buffalo, because what they do to help and empower immigrant and refugee women, and they have been doing this since 2014. I was fortunate to have a tour of Stitch Buffalo a few years ago, and once I saw firsthand everything that you guys do, I was blown away, it was incredible.
 that you help so many people and they have different programs and workshops. There's the
 the workshop where I know there's over 50 women from all over the world that make, they make different products. And those are then sold in Stitch Buffalo at their building on Niagara Street. And what I thought was really incredible is if any of the women, they could walk in and ask, hey, has anything sold? And if it has, they get issued a check right on the spot and they're compensated for their work. And all of this stuff with the sewing machines,
 And I believe we all have a beautiful Buffalo of, um,
 a Buffalo item right on our desks. We appreciate that. And we just thank you for everything that you do. And we have this proclamation for you, which I will proudly present to you after you make a few remarks and that everyone else on the council know the wonderful things that your organization does. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, council member Ferraletto. And thank you all for a few minutes of your time. I will say this is a little intimidating here.
 You do have a package of information about Stitch Buffalo. And the Buffalo pin is a first item that we have made here in Buffalo in combination with the International Institute of Buffalo. And some of you may know us from this work. This is a symbol of the end of the journey that the women take when they arrive at Stitch.
 And so I just want to paint that picture for a moment of what that journey is. We uplift and advocate for refugee women from all over the world here in Buffalo, quietly on the west side on Niagara Street. We're located in a donated space by Rich Products, which we are quickly outgrowing. And so...
 The journey is first for the woman to leave her home, her new home here in Buffalo and get to Stitch Buffalo and how she's going to get there. Is it going to be with a caseworker? Is it going to be public transport? How is she going to arrive there? And then how is she going to communicate when she gets there? And then and then it gets into the process of.
 the skills that the woman has in helping support those skills to the point where she can sell her work in our shop.
 or in our Etsy shop and then receive a paycheck. And so the journey that we support includes English as a second language. It includes financial literacy. It includes community building across cultural bridges. And then it includes the education, the education within our colleges,
 culture, but also the education with skill development and then how to sell your product. And so that buffalo pin, along with many other beautiful things we make.
 They're not just female oriented, I will say, since I'm here, we also make beautiful ties from recycled kimonos, which is important for you to know because it's not just the refugee women's program that we have, we also have a sustainability program called Second Stitch, as well as our community classes, which teach the community at large, they can come take any workshop in the textile arts.
 as we offer a broad range of classes on mostly Saturdays. Mostly is how to use your sewing machine on also Wednesday evenings. So we are at the point of, so I come here too to ask of you, we are at a point where we are as a grassroots organization really grown since 2014.
 and we have maxed out of our space. So even though we're on the west side, we are not district dependent. We span all districts. We serve women from all over Buffalo, including the north towns, and we are in need of space, preferably 5,500 square foot space. But we are in need of space. And so if you know
 And I don't think for a long time I thought we were needed to be on the west side that we needed to be on grant and Niagara but I don't know about that anymore because we have refugee women from all over the place now finding their way to stitch Buffalo, our bit our recent
 insurgents, if you will, of Afghan women, along with their families. You may have seen on the news a couple of weeks ago, I started a sewing machine drive because all of them need sewing machines. This is a skill they bring with them and they have no access. So we have
 a sewing machine drive going on, which we will then equip each woman with a sewing machine and the tools they need to make items for their home, for their family, and then eventually make it to Stitch Buffalo to earn income for their family. So I think- That is all wonderful.
 I think I got it. I'm just going to present this to you and then we'll take a photo and we appreciate you guys coming and we all appreciate the gifts. So thank you. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Great. And thank you for the gift.
 I think you have one of these customers from Columbia. I know you like to wear stuff. Next week we'll... I still have the one from a few years ago too, pre-COVID. Absolutely. Thank you. I guess it is the day of thinking of people outside of ourselves and being a welcoming city, how important it is. All righty.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Wyatt, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 19th, 2022 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are in front of you? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. As before, it's not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review something that you haven't had a chance to review. Are we going from the top, Majority Leader? From the top. From the top.
 Item number one, Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number two, 1318 Niagara Street additional work contract. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Ferluto. Item number three, Report Assail 202 box. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number four, Report Assail 3 Geneva.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number five, Report Excel 910 Glenwood. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number six, Report Excel 114 Gumbo. Motion to approve items six through 12.
 Second by Council Member Noll, Council. Item number 13, report is sell, portion of 49, Alma. Motion to send to CD, items 13 and 14. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 15, report is sell, 81, Prenat. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 17, report is sell, 129, Victoria. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 18, Wynn Pilot. Mr. Chairman, motion is to approve. Council Member...
 Noakowski would like to speak on that. Yes, sir. Second by council member Noakowski who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a great pilot that's happening in the West Village Historic District in which I live in. And no one will tell you how much the neighborhood has changed
 but my colleague, David Rivera, who used to patrol part of the area to tell you the vibrancy and the changes that the neighborhood has changed. And these are very large historic structures that house well over 200 units. And where we're at within the neighborhood is these buildings could have been sold off and been market rate apartments for $1,500 a pop.
 And I was thrilled that when Wynn had purchased and acquired these properties and having a commitment and being an affordable housing developer and making sure that folks that have lived there for generations are able to live in these buildings and live in them with dignity and security. Some of the parcels and the large structures were.
 three years ago were large drug havens. And the folks that live there deserve to live somewhere that is safe and secure and somewhere that they are now able to afford with the neighborhood changing positively. And I'm thrilled that this is getting approved today. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Item number 19, appoint real estate maintenance manager amended. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 20, cash flow report for March 2022. Motion to send to finance items 20 through 22. Second by council member Fairlough.
 Item number 23, appoint coordinator of Office Auto. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 24, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement with Erie County. Motion to approve items 24 through 28. Second by Council Member Glumbeck, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to take a moment to thank the county legislator for most of the North District, Lisa Chimera. She has been...
 wonderful to work with. She's worked with myself and the community and the city parks department on J.H. Williams Park and Riverside Park. And we've been able to do things the past few years because of that cooperative effort.
 ventures that we've been able to form in the neighborhood with my community groups and with our county government. So I just want to publicly say thank you to Lisa Shemera for taking the time to meet with myself, my community groups and helping us to come up with funding for our parks, for our youth and our adults and seniors to be able to use. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Council Member White. Thank you, Council President. I'd also like to thank our
 our county legislator, April Baskin. I mean, I can tell you, I've been a council member going on eight years and the amount of money we've gotten from the county is something like I've never seen before. And so I really appreciate her advocacy in ensuring that the taxpayers of the city of Buffalo get their fair share of dollars. And she assisted in making sure that Suffolk Avenue was gonna be paved
 um is giving money for our festival and all other infrastructure but we have some additional dollars for show shown park again she's making a difference in ensuring that we get our fair share and it's greatly appreciated so again i want to thank um our chairwoman april baskins for all the efforts that she does in making sure that we get our fair share of county dollars thank you sir councilman reverie thank you very much uh council president i'd also like to thank our county legislator and
 our county executive i mean we've had a different type of relationship over the last i'd say maybe three years that we never had before where we're having streets paved in fillmore niagara
 uh university and perhaps ellicott as well and things are happening in our parks so i think now the county is looking at a certain especially the legislators that represent urban areas we're very grateful to them and uh i hope to see the master list of other projects that they're going to be doing in the city shortly so we can give them credit for everything they're doing i agree
 All right. Next item. Item number 29, City of Buffalo authorizing an adoption of 2022 Erie County Hazard Mitigation Plan. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 30, Appoint Division Chief. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Item number 31, Full Store License 238 Albany. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 32, Full Store License 2577 Bailey. Mr. Chair, this item is open. Motion to recommit.
 Motion to recommend by council member White. So you wanted to go to ledge. Okay. Thank you. Number 33, food store license 905 Clinton. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by council member Fairlough.
 Item number 34, full store license, 94 Grant Street. Motion to approve items 34 and 35. Second by Council Member Noah Kost. Item number 36, full store license, 984 Jefferson. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 37, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion to approve item number 37,
 Item number 38, Convention Center Contract Firefighter Exam. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairluck. Item 39, I.O. Solutions Police Promotional Contract Extension. Motion to send Civil Service Item 39 and 40. Second by Council Member Golumbik. Item number 41, Liquor License Notice. Motion to receive and file Items 41 and 42. Second by Council Member Fairluck.
 Item number 43, certificate of appointment. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 44, notice of appointment for Council Inter. Motion to send to civil service as well. Second by Council Member Golomba. Number 44, you were calling it to go to civil service that you mean to adopt it? That is to adopt. All right. We send the previous motion second by Council Member Wyatt. The motion is to adopt second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Miscellaneous. Miscellaneous. Item number 45, a tent to file Article 78 proceedings. Motion to receive and file items 45 through 49. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 50, DDA for 226, 232, 236, and 238 High Street. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Golombet. Petition.
 I'm sorry. Can we go back to item number 47? Can we do it at the end of the meeting? Should we revisit? Yeah. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 51, special use, 81 Abbott for Tavern. Motion is sent to Legislation City Planning Board, items 51 through 55. Second by Council Member Fairlead. Submission was civil service, item number one, appoint director for urban affairs. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Council, the majority leader of the area.
 Item number two, appoint confidential aid. Motion is to approve items two through and including six. Second by the majority leader. Item number seven, appoint administrative assistant. Motion is to receive and file items seven through and including 11. Second by Council Member White.
 Community Development, item number 12, firms in violation of Buffalo's apprenticeship law. Motion to receive and file items 12, 13, and 14. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item number 15, concerns regarding 2868 Main Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Norikowski. Item number 16, opportunity to speak on creating a community diversity law. Motion to receive and file items 16 through and including 22. Second by Council Member Ferrell-Levitt.
 Legislation item number 23, dance hall license 763 Main Street. Motion to approve items 23 through 26. Second by the majority leader Rivera. Item number 27, special use 91, aka 101 grant for hookah lounge. This item in the Niagara district was sent without recommendation. Mr. Chair, motion to recommit to legislation. Motion to recommit, second moved by councilman for a little second by the majority leader.
 Item number 28, special use tool, 7AK209 Niagara for tobacco. Motion to approve with conditions items 28, approved 29 through 31 and approved with conditions 32. Second by the majority leader. Police oversight item number 33, mental health issues in the police. Motion to receive and file items 33 through 36. Second by council member Noah Kozlick.
 Resolutions. Item number 56, fee waiver for Shakespeare and Delaware Park. Motion to approve items 56 and 57. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item number 58, Commissioner of Beads. Motion to adopt item 58 and 59. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 60, trailblazing sign for Skywalkers. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 61, Councilmember Scanlon, excuse from May 3rd. Motion to adopt item 61 and 62. Second by Councilmember Wynne. Item number 63, home move request, sale of bonds and notes. Motion to adopt. Excuse me, that's 63? 63. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 64, waive fees for the Buffalo Olmstead Park Preservation Flamingo event. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 65, waive fees for EID in the park. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 66, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adapt. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 67, direct the law to promise a direct payment for a local product special use permit. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Ferreira-Loto, who has the floor.
 Thank you. Earlier this morning, I spoke with one of Councilmember Scanlon's staff members and they asked me to, one, make sure this item is going to ledge, but second, just to mention why they wanted this drafted. I know it's been publicized in the news. I think the district attorney was talking about it. A lot of places or some places are gifting marijuana and they're not selling it, so there
 people are getting, they're purchasing something of value, and then that store is gifting them the marijuana. So essentially they're selling it, but it's a gray area, and it's been pretty widely publicized, and the council member wants to see if we can address that somehow and have this item sent to ledge. All right. Council Member White? Thank you, Mr. Chair, President. And I, too, think that we need to have some additional conversation and have some clarity.
 because I wasn't totally clear during caucus on what we're doing. I know assistant corporation councilman's reaching out to the organization, cannabis management, whoever to get clarity. That's definitely needed so that we understand exactly what this is. We wanna make the right decisions.
 We want to understand it first because we can't do anything unless we understand it. So looking forward to that conversation, I think having that person, if we can have a Zoom or something, could really be helpful to us being clear on the process and how and what's going on, because I think that point I heard to didn't understand it, but hopefully we can get some clarity on it. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council Member Revere.
 And we want to make clear that it's not the Buffalo Common Council that will be doing this. We should have a state representative come in and explain to the general public exactly how this is going to be rolled out. We do have a lot of questions and some concerns that are going to come as a result of this. In our respective neighborhoods, we're going to have some opposition. I can.
 You can almost, you can bet on there's going to be opposition from black clubs and certain interest groups that are going to be opposed and then you're gonna have other interest groups that are going to be supportive of this, but we need as council member.
 Wyatt mentioned clarity, and that has to come from the state because I can't answer the questions that they're posing to us right now. So I'd just like to see more information on how this is going to come out. Thank you. And that does make it plain for people to call their state representatives at this point because we haven't been briefed as a council.
 Next item. Item number 68, budget and personnel amendment for police. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 69, consideration for naming of Ian Hilltarp. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 70, add a business number up to 60 on the sign fund balance. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item 47? Revisit item 47, second by Councilmember Wyatt. It's before us. Councilmember Wyatt, you have the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to thank council staff, Mr. Montour and Ms. St. Jean for their efforts.
 on this document. We go through our city budget annually. And, you know, I think, Council President, we've done a great job of being transparent and making sure we're engaged in the public. This is another tool to engage the public and how we go through our city budget. So I hope people will go online, get this information as we, I think we'll be addressing when the budget hearing is for the public.
 so that they have that some additional information and understanding how this process works. We want their input, but we want to educate them as well. So again, thank you, Mr. Montour and Ms. St. Jean for your efforts on this wonderful document. I was very pleased. I know we've been talking about it for a couple of years, but now we have it and it's available online, I believe, for folks to access to get information on how the budget works. Thank you.
 I agree. It's just another level of transparency and educating the public. We want the public to be involved. We want to hear their voices. And so they're doing a great job in making that happen and doing all that research and putting it into an easy read format for people who might not do this every day. So good job. All right. So the motion stands. Announcements.
 Announcements to committee meetings. The follow meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th floor of City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalomy.gov for information on how to attend. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 9 45 AM. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 10 AM.
 Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 2 p.m.
 Budget hearings and workshops, senators schedule. All budget hearings will be conducted in council chambers and will begin the week of Monday, May 9, 2022 at 10 a.m. All department heads should be available to present budget requests and answer questions. Departments will be contacted as needed with times and dates subject to change based on availability for our first responder departments.
 Public hearings for the public to speak on a budget will be Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 5 p.m. If you would like to participate in the public hearing, you may send emails to council staff at buffalony.gov or call 716-851-5105 in advance. All budget workshops will be conducted in room 1417 and City Hall and begin the week of Monday, May 16, 2022.
 Council members, if you like, this is not a requirement to send questions that you want department heads to have already researched. It may help. Some questions will come up and you won't think about it till you're there. But there could be things that you already know you're going to want an answer on.
 And that way it gives them time. And if you could send the questions to council staff, council staff then will share everybody's questions because some of us may have the same question. And then that just gives us another level of getting information and getting it accurately and not hoping and having to depend on their memory. It is a tool that I'm asking be out there so that we can go through the workshops, whether
 Well, we need to revisit item 63. And the reason is it was being sent to finance, but it's for the sale of bonds. And we need to get the bond sales moving. So we need that adopted, if that's okay. So we want to revisit that item. Motion to revisit item 63. Second by Council Member Wyatt. I want to rescind the motion. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 And motion to adopt it. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. We can get this to Albany so bonds can be sold. All right. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts? Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to invite the meeting to a meeting for Hopewell Opioid Treatment Program in Cleefield Plaza. There's been a lot of chatter on Facebook regarding it. And we want folks to be able to come out on Thursday, May 5th.
 over at Cleve Hill United Methodist Church 546 Eggert on Thursday, May 5th, again from 530 to 730. This is your opportunity to hear from the representatives and ask your questions regarding this treatment center. Again, this is not something that the council could approve that I approved. It was something that was approved by the state, but we want you to come and speak and have your have conversations because I know it's a real issue in the community.
 Secondly, I want to invite residents of the university to our community breakfast, which is going to take place Saturday, May 14th from 9 a.m. to 12 at Gerard Place, 2515 Bailey Avenue. Please RSVP at 716-851-5165. That's Saturday, May 14th from 9 a.m. to 12, Gerard Place, 2015 Bailey. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? Council Member Winkle? No.
 Mr. Chair, the Madison Stakeholders Breakfast is May 14th, 9 a.m. We will be discussing a lot of the issues as of late, one of which will be speed humps in the application process, as well as establishing block clubs. So we want everyone to come out to this meeting this month. We will also be enjoying food from Louisiana Cookery.
 So if you have not had Louisiana cookery yet, please come down and get some of the best cooking you have probably tasted before, especially as it relates to New Orleans cooking. So we're going to have a great time, as we always do, with the Masters Tickle This Breakfast. Again, that's at 877 East Ferry at the Delavan Grider Center at 9 a.m. on Saturday, May the 14th. Thank you. Louisiana cookery. Who's cooking at our university?
 I know someone's cooking. I don't know. Not me. Any other announcements, council members? Motion to adjourn. Second by council member Golombet. Thank you all.