Jim, it's in. Give a heads up when we're live. Okay, we're live. Bethany, I think you're on mute. Do you want to do the countdown one more time? 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
 Roll call. Well, we're coming back in from our recess. All the council members are back. We are here for the special session to consider the mayor's proposed budget for 2019 to 2020 for the public's information. We were out on recess until the mayor's announcement of his budget and also the receipt of the budget by council members. The
 The budget is available online. The council members have now been emailed the budget electronically. And so we would go from the top of the agenda. Item number one, call for a special session. Motion to receive and file. Second by the president pro temp Scanlon. Item number two, mayor's fiscal year 2020 to 2021 budget overview. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Fierlittle. Item number three, Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item number four, Mayor's budget recommendations 2020 to 2021. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number five adjournment. Before we adjourn, before we get a second on that, I don't know if Bethany has the schedule to read. I know it wasn't. Do you have available or to council staff, do you have the schedule?
 Of the upcoming. So as they're getting the schedule for the upcoming hearings as the public is watching. Some of you may have watched the mayor's announcement and now it is in the council's hands to deliberate. I saw some comments of people wanting to know how to make comments.
 You can in two seconds, the chief of staff will show you and tell you how you can participate. All of our budget hearings, workshops and anything else pertaining to the budget in which there will be more than four council members together will be public and the public will be able to comment on our deliberations or on the budget. Chief of staff?
 Thank you, Mr. Council President. Tuesday, May 5th, will be budget hearings for all city departments. The starting time is to be determined.
 We're going to be doing a public hearing on Wednesday, May 6th. We'll be a hearing for the board of education. And later that day, public hearing where we will receive comments from the public on all budget items. If you would like to participate. By commenting on any part of the budget, you can do so by sending us an email to council staff at city dash buffalo.com. Again, that's council staff at city dash buffalo.com. Or you can call.
 851-5105. On the, on Tuesday, May 5th, there is a start time, correct? The time to be determined is for the different departments. I think we have a start time for the council to come together.
 Was that established so that we can put that to the public? If it is, my office doesn't have it yet, sir. I will make sure that we have it on the council's Facebook page. Our departments usually begin meeting in between 9 to 10 in the morning, but we'll make sure that you, the public, are informed as we make sure all of our council members are available for start time.
 All right. Council Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. We adjourn. Thank you.