Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombet. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Atke. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Court is present. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands. I need a God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you. Each of you recognizes the tension that's part and parcel of our regular rhythm of life. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 4, a scripture that will be familiar to some of you. A time to cry, a time to laugh, a time to grieve, and a time to dance. And that's the kind of tension back and forth that oftentimes makes up our own lives. I know in a few moments we'll have memorials because there'll be those who passed and will be grieving for and then there's celebrations of good things that happen. When it comes to laughing and dancing, Deb and I are doing that because Thursday our daughter-in-law gave birth to twins at Millard Fillmore Suburban. And yes, she does have pictures for sure, Lincoln and Kingston. As well for laughing and dancing, there are nine Koreans that are in the air now coming from Seoul to spend the next week here praying in Buffalo and Niagara Falls. And we're thrilled to welcome them to our city in just a few hours. But at the same moment, we're coming to 514 and the grief and the crying that's still real and still there. And how much it influences daily life for so many. Thank you. Even as we're coming to the events, Deb and I will be at many, and I'm sure all of you will be as well, around the 514 marker. There'll be some we're going to that'll be remembrance and memorial events, looking back on the tragedy of the murders that day. There'll be other things that are happening right now that are looking forward, panels and speakers and other groups coming together, working to build a better Buffalo from the tears and the grief and the death and the murder of that awful, awful day. that that's ezekiel 3 ecclesiastes 3 4 and sort of a time to cry time to laugh time to grieve time to dance and the rhythms of this city are represented by that scripture let's pray father we come before you and i i recognize that that every leader every person goes through these very same rhythms and lord some that bring laughter and smiles and joy and dancing and others that just break our hearts and yours. Lord, I know you grieve. You wept over the city of Jerusalem, and I believe there are times that you weep with us over what our city's experienced, what it's gone through. I thank you, Father, that there are those that are working to build a better, more equitable Buffalo, and I pray that every member of this council will feel the sacred responsibility of that task. Lord, give us moments of lightheartedness, because we can't do this every day, Living on the bottom, but father don't let us miss the necessity of Crying and weeping with those who cry and weep Lord now be with this session these leaders I ask in your precious name. Amen. Thank you. Dr. Warner council members memorials sitting on and I echo to remember the ten that we lost from our community and we pause now for them and and for anyone who has given their life, three soldiers that have given their life, American soldiers, for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Today we have a special presentation by Council Member Mitch Nowakowski for Mental Health Awareness Month. So I'd like to honor mental health Awareness month by inviting my friend And colleague Chris Decker down to the podium to talk about the importance of evergreen health and what they've done I actually live about two blocks down from evergreen health and it's interesting because I We have to have a conversation of services that happen in the community and how they interate with fellow residents and neighbors. But we've had a wonderful working group with what Evergreen does in our community. And I think it's really important that we need to talk about the stigma of mental health. We also need to make sure that we have the conversation that includes a large portion are suffering from mental health issues are also our neighbors. They deserve to live in our communities and be fully supported. And it's my honor to not only recognize Evergreen Health, but recognize my friend Chris Decker, who I have on retainer for when I need a call or a conversation over coffee. So I'd like to turn over the podium to Chris Decker. I'd like to thank the Common Council and Mitch, of course. uh for both personally and behalf of evergreen for this honor many of you know evergreen has a 40-year rich history of providing hiv and medical services and other services in the community buffalo but in my role as vice president of behavioral health there i'm most proud of what we've been able to do during the combined impact of covid19 the opiate overdose epidemic and the devastation of racially motivated mass violence We were able to not just maintain our services, but expand our services when Buffalonians needed us most. It's really the people who work at Evergreen who are pretty amazing and make me smile every day as I watch them tirelessly strive to eradicate health inequities and provide services to some of the most vulnerable people in our community, especially people of color, people from the LGBTQ plus community, and other members of the community pushed to the margins. Recently, Evergreen did self-fund a very large-scale project to expand our outpatient mental health services. That was endorsed by the Erie County Department of Mental Health and the New York State Office of Mental Health. This will allow us to serve several hundred more people a year who are brave enough to ask for help on their mental health journey. Right now... Funding for behavioral health services across the state is always in jeopardy But you can count on evergreen and people like me to continue to do our very best To meet the needs in terms of mental health and substance use of all of our neighbors in the city of Buffalo But we will need everyone's continued support to be able to do that Finally for me, please know this is especially moving as when I relocated to Buffalo so many years ago I had no idea that Buffalo would become home and Had no idea that it's been 25 and counting Years helping Western New Yorkers improve their mental health and substance use related conditions And then I would fall in love with the city of Buffalo and the people who are their heartbeat. Thank you. I have one more Presentation mr. President and although I have the most recognizable Polish last name there are Polish council members and council member Golumbak and council member Bowman and today is Polish National Flag Day, which is honors and celebrates not only Polish heritage and culture and history, but also Its flag and what it means and I also represent Broadway Fillmore which for many decades was known as historic polonians and still is throughout the history of immigrants that helped build the city of Buffalo and and We're now commencing and going into warmer weather where we see more flag raisings, we see more parades and festivals, and it also just shows how diverse the city of Buffalo is and the rich culture and history that helped build this country, build this city, and will virtually continue to build the city of Buffalo. So I'd like to welcome a special guest, Mr. Kubicki, who is the general consulate for the country of Poland, to say a few words. Mr. President, dear members of the Council, it is always a great pleasure to visit Buffalo, as this is the only place where I can find my American roots. My distant family came to Buffalo in the end of the 19th century. And I think what is very special is that, especially for the United States of America, this is probably the only place on the planet where you can be proud and develop your roots of being American, being proud American patriot, at the same time cherish and develop your other ethnicities and your other backgrounds. And I would like to thank the city council, councilman, other members of the council for helping our community not only to preserve but really showing off their polish wonderful traditions and heritage as you know very recently poland has sort of become became a center of gravity in terms of global security we're right at the edge of the civilizations, the one that we believe and we commonly cherish, democracy and freedom, and the other one that we try to help not to overcome the world. I thank you for your support in that matter, but I think that since we are celebrating Polish Flag Day, we need more reasons to laugh and dance, I think, and this is definitely one of those days. So thank you very much for your recognition. I understand that the City Council has a very important job to do. If I may, just one request on the budget. No cuts on Polish community expenses, if I may. Other than that, I'm very grateful. Thank you very much for having me. It is a great honor to speak here on behalf of the Polish community of Buffalo and Western New York. Thank you. Thank you, Councilmember Nowakowski, and to all our guests. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on April 18th, 2023 are approved. Councilmembers, the late file's up before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review an item you may not have enough time to review. Are we going from the top? Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 79 out of order. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number 79, discharge item 23-284 from community development. Motion to adopt a discharge. Second by Council Member White. From the top. Item number one, Mayor's four-year financial plan for 2023-2024 to 2026-2027. Motion to take item one and two. Motion is descended to the Committee of the Whole. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number three, mayor out of town travel. Motion to receive and file items three and four. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number five, annual action plan amendment for rental assistance, home, and DPCC. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number six, annual action plan amendment for special economic development. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Mungo. Item number 7, DDA for thankful CDC, 197-201 Brinkman and 204-208-210 Sumner. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Friulotto. Item number 23-630 has been withdrawn. Item number 8, reported sale portion of 394 Coons. Motion to approve items 8 and 9. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 10, reported sale portion of 329 Wyoming. Motion to recommand. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. To CD? Yes. It's going to CD? Going to CD. Going to CD. Okay, the motion is to go to CD, seconded by Council Member Blingo. Item number 11, request to approve a port of sale for Hispanic Heritage Council of Western New York. Motion to approve items 11 and 12. Seconded by Council Member Baldwin. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number 14 city clerk's office internal controls a wedding revenue motion to send a finance items 14 through 19 second by councilmember Wyatt item number 20 2023 2024 budget hearings and workshops tentative schedule motion to receive and file Second by council member Columbo item number 21 change order for history museum boiler room improvements motion to approve items 21 through 32 second by councilmember Wyatt item Item number 33, notice of appointment. Motion to send civil service items 33 through 36. Second by Council Member Fidelito. Item number 37, permission to upset 2022 justice assistance grant. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temske. Item number 38, appoint cell block attendant. Motion to send civil service items 38 through 41. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 42, 1166 Abbott New Use Car. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 43, Property Manager. Motion to approve items 43 through 45. Second by Council Member White. Item number 46, status change from provisional to permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 47, Western New York Polygraph Services Contract Extension. No objection. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlawn. Item number 48, Buffalo Store Authority 2023-24, budget available online. Motion to receive and file items 48 through 52. Second by Council Member White. Item number 53, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to Civil Service, Items 53 and 54. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 55, Notice of Appointment for Council Intern 3. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Miscellaneous, Item number 56, Citizen Salary Review Commission for 2023 Recommendations. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 57, Request for Public Clarification of Council Rule 33. Motion to send to Ledge, Items 57 through 59. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number 60, autism awareness and park public use. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And on this item, if there's anyone out there when the chairman opens this conversation, this is really a request from a parent and group of parents to have autism hours at least one park. I think the letter calls for specific parks, but I think that would be up to administration which ones are better suited. But the parent does plan on being at the next CD meeting, so I just wanted to make sure that people knew that that was being discussed. Item number 61 applications regarding 930 Walden motion to receive and file in 61 through 64 Second by councilman, Renaud Koski item number 65 concerns special use permit for 1010 Elmwood Motion sent the legislation saying my customer for a little item number 66 employment disclosure motion to receive and file my customer Wingo I Petitions, item number 67, zone and map amendment for 325 Walden. Motion to send the legislation to the planning board, items 67 through 70. Second by council member Freelon. Item number 71, Bray Miller market tenant petitions. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Nowakowski. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint complaint clerk. Motion is to approve items 1, 2, and 3. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 4, appoint real estate specialists. Motion is to receive and file items 4 through and including 12. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Finance. Item number 13, emergency extension for IO Solutions. Motion to approve item 13 and 14. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 15, annual action plan amendment. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Community Development, item number 16, concerns regarding Allen Street Capital Approvement. Motion to receive in file 16 and 17. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 18, report is so, 1446 Maine. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Legislation, item number 19, ordinance amendment for chapter 132, tobacco and hookah. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member White. Item number 20, ordinance amendment chapter 194, food stores. Motion is to approve items 20, approve 21 with conditions, approve 22 through 24, approve 25 with conditions, and approve 26. Second by Councilmember Wingo. And this on item 20, this is the item that we talked about that would prohibit deli stores from having selling weapons in their store. I want to thank Corporation Council for getting this done for us. Before this, and I think somebody talked about it in the committee, that one of their stores had basically machetes in the store. So in the same store that kids go to buy candy, it's the same store that someone could, if they were outraged, quickly in the community come and just buy a knife that is out on shelves. One store had a whole... turnstile of different weapons that you could go in our communities and buy so this would prohibit That in our in the stores that we license to be clear in the stores that we license This would prohibit that so thank you for your support. I Item 27, special use for 462 Niagara, 120, 148 Hudson, and multiple address on 7. Motion to recommit 27 and 28. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 29, zone and map amendment for 223 Lafayette. Motion to approve. Seconded by the Majority Leader Revere. Item number 30, special use 2025 Broadway. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 31, special use for 930 Wadden. Motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to point out that we did earlier in the meeting, my staff filed some documents, petitions, sign-in sheets from community meetings, and there is overwhelming... neighborhood support against this bar and Between the neighborhood support the no parking and the threat to the quality of life. That's the reasons for the denial. Thank you Thank you, sir Item number 32, special use 397, Jefferson. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 33, special use 962, Lafayette. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 34, special use 1954, Clinton. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Resolutions item number 72, way fee for Habitat for Humanity. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 73, ordinance amendment chapter 132 for tobacco, hookah and vaping. Motion to adopt items 73 and 74. Second by the president pro temp Scanlon who had. Approve. What did you say? Is the adopter approved? Approved. Approved. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon who has the floor Thank You council president Um, I want to thank the council members that were working on alongside One another on this ordinance amendment and along with the Department of permits and inspections the administration I think all of our districts are experiencing situations where these stores are opening up and Things of that nature and in addition to that we've got cannabis legislation coming our way We want to make sure we were squared away ready to go when licenses are starting start being issued To operators in this area, so I want to thank permits and inspections. They did an incredible job I want to thank the office of cannabis management. We had some very Fruitful meetings with them as well So I want to thank everyone involved for just working together and do an incredible job getting this on the books Would you mind just? summarizing for those who might be watching what this does so and Corporation Council can correct me if I'm wrong but what it does is it's making sure that anyone who wants to operate one of these establishment establishments has the proper licensing that lays out a timeline for them to do so if they are currently operating on the timeline they have until they have to until they have to come into compliance moving forward. And then grounds for revocation, things of that nature down the road, removal of licenses, penalties, things of that nature. Thank you. Council Member White? And thank you councilmember for this because as you said all of our districts are experiencing it and I actually am holding one until we finish this so that They would be able to have to fall under this and be regulated and not just kind of out there. So, thank you Next item. Item number 75, waive fees for Public School 64, Rainbow Run. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 76, calling for U.S. intervention for war crimes against civilians. Motion to adopt item 76 through 78. Seconded by Council Member Golombakou. Who has the floor? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives from the Burmese Myanmar community have contacted me. I have a huge number of them that live in my district from all the different ethnic groups that comprise that nation. They told me that there was an item that is pending in front of the federal government. And they asked that the council would go on record in support of bringing this in front of them. Basically, the Myanmar military junta has committed war crimes against civilians, including excessive and lethal force. Arbitrary arrests and detentions and mass shootings of peaceful protesters. The city of Buffalo must use its voice to speak out against the atrocities being committed by the Myanmar military and call for action to hold them accountable. This resolution advocates for the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee to hold an emergency session to address the ongoing crisis in Myanmar and discuss steps to put an end to the violence. I'm calling on all elected officials to join me in support for the Burmese community in Buffalo and stand in solidarity with the people of Myanmar who are striving for democracy, freedom, and justice. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I don't number 80 fee waiver for Jefferson Avenue Friday nightlife motion to approve single that council member what I don't number 81 identifying locations for safe exchanges I Motion, item 81 you said? Yes. Motion to send to CD. Adopt the resolves. And the remainder to CD. Adopt the resolves, remainder to CD. Second by Councilman Ferreira. Just briefly, this came about, we have a lot of, and I'm hoping the administration will move on this quickly. A lot of online sales right now and people being ripped off when they go to exchange. So, for instance, last week, two weeks ago, no, last week, I had a kid from the rural area selling at ATV. He brought it into the city after it was sold online. Folks asked them to start it so that they could see if it ran. And then they ran off. The police did find it. They impounded it. They didn't impound it, they put it over at the impound just to keep for them to pick up. Then when people went to go pick it up, they said you don't have a city, what's required for the city to have it? So I was in a suburb and I saw at a police station where they had a safe exchange place. Where people can exchange at a police station, be up under a running camera in a well lit area, and then someone brought to my attention about child exchanges when, like in a divorce or a separation, that often it's a hard, very difficult thing to decide where to go. to to transact the Exchange moving child from mom to dad or vice versa So I thought that if we could have one on each side of town Not necessarily by district because that you know But just one on the in on the east side and west side so and that way keeps people safe things are recorded Doesn't guarantee that anything a matter of fact in this resolution talks about city not being responsible but I think it will be safer because we're having these exchanges. So thank you for your support. Next item. Item number 82, address the mental health support for the Buffalo Police Department. This is a late file. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. I want to thank you and the rest of the members of the council from the bottom of my heart for supporting this resolution. As Council Member Nowakowski mentioned at the beginning of the meeting during our presentations, it's Mental Health Awareness Month. So I want to thank him for drawing attention to that at this meeting. I've spoken on the issues of mental health. uh... last week or that our last council meeting at a council meetings in the past and in particular how it impacts on the wrong employees here at the city of buffalo in particular buffalo police department buffalo fire department uh... not to say that doesn't impact people within other departments but focusing on the the traumatic experiences in the the unfortunate incidents that the members of those two departments Interact with on a regular basis basis I wanted to focus on the two of them and in particular today on the Buffalo Police Department over the course of the past two years five counts five Buffalo Police department members have lost their lives to issues surrounding mental health and what this resolution is calling for is Bolstering the the Buffalo Police peer team currently the peer team which seeks out and tries to assist fellow officers with a mental health issues Done on a rel on a volunteer basis and there's just not enough time in the day for them for those members the incredible person who's in charge of it and the other members who volunteer to get things done and This resolution is asking for the Buffalo Police Department in this upcoming budget to create full-time positions within the department to do that. And I'm not looking for these fellow officers to become their mental health professionals. God knows they need to seek the proper assistance, but what we're looking for is someone they're comfortable with to reach out to them, make sure that they're okay, and then help facilitate them getting the proper help that they need. I'm asking that the police department the administration add that to this year's budget in addition to that currently if you're a member of the police department and you donate blood you get the day off for that What we're asking is for the police department is to institute some mental health days where you can take the day off and go seek treatment for anything you might be dealing with. And hopefully that can remove some of the stigma associated with it. You know, you get your extra day, you're taking it off, you're going to go see someone and then provide something that you went to see someone and you're seeking help. So I want to thank my colleagues in the council for supporting this. It's not the end of what we have to do to help support our employees here in the City of Buffalo, but it's a start. And again, hopefully during budget negotiations the next week or two, we can work this into the budget and continue to look at these mental health issues and any accompanying issues that correlate with mental health and we can address those as well. Thank you. Thanks, Rob. Item number 83, amend zoning map for 264 Mystic Street. Motion to send to legislation and city planning board. Second by President Pro Temp Scam. Budget hearings and workshops. All budget hearings will begin Thursday, May 4, 2023 for city departments and council chambers. Public hearing for the Board of Education will be Monday, May 15, 2023 at 10 a.m. in council chambers. Public hearing for the budget will be Tuesday, May 16, 2023 at 5 p.m. in council chambers. If you would like to participate in a public hearing, you may send emails to council staff at buffalony.gov or call 716-851-5105 in advance. All budget workshops will immediately follow the public hearing on the Board of Education the week of Monday, May 15, 2023, in room 1417. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, May 9, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, May 9, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, May 9, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, May 9, 2023 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We have our monthly stakeholders breakfast meeting and town hall this Saturday. Not this Saturday, but next week, Saturday, on 5-13. This will be an emotional meeting because we will honor those who fell one year ago, that time last year. So we will absolutely be asking everyone to bring their prayers with them to this special stakeholders meeting next week, Saturday. Then the next Saturday on the 20th, we have our Bailey Avenue cleanup. We'll check in at 8.30 at Captain of the Sea, which is located at 3038 Bailey Avenue, right on the corner of Kizzington and Bailey. And then on the next month, on June the 10th, I believe it is, we will have our next stakeholders meeting where we are going to present all of the folks who are looking to get into city leadership. So meet all of the folks who are looking to engage the community on Saturday, June the 10th. From 9 AM to about 10.30 AM. And we're looking forward to having another great, warm, hot breakfast on both of these days. And we're also looking forward to our Juneteenth celebration in the month of June. So we're asking all those who would like to have a great home cooked breakfast, as well as great information regarding what's happening in the Mastin District, the best district, the greatest district, say that proudly. Then also sharing of information, please come out and share with us on those days. Thank you. Mr. Chair Actually actually the address. I'm sorry nine. I was on a 77 East Delavan at nine o'clock on Saturday That's the living writer center a 77 East Delavan. Thank you. Thank you councilman Bowman. Mr Chair just quickly wanted to announce eight days of hope is coming to the love dry district this year Applications are due By 5 p.m. on May 8th, you can send that to 8 Days of Hope. They have a website, 8 Days of Hope Buffalo. Or you can pick them up in my office. But wanted to get that deadline out there, May 8th at 5 p.m. 8 Days of Hope is coming to Lovejoy District, a great opportunity for our residents. Thank you. Absolutely. Any other announcements? If not, motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Joe P. Fairlittle.