One. Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franzen. Here. Council Member Glombeck. Here. Council President Pridgin. At key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Let's stand for the pleasure of meeting our pleasure of meeting Mrs. Susan Wyatt of the United States of America. I mentioned to you last time we were together that there by pastors from West Western New York, the Church of West Western New York, is a 50-day devotional running from Easter Sunday through Pentecost Sunday. And I've been to each time that I was up here. So if you want that, I could make an announcement that Bishop Malone will be opening us in prayer two weeks today. So mark that on your calendars. I think that will be a wonderful time to welcome him. I want to refer to the devotional which is done by the pastors of Buffalo, Myanmar Indigenous Christian Fellowship. I didn't even know there was a Buffalo, Myanmar Indigenous Christian Fellowship. But we gave voice to that in today's devotional. I want to refer to the one, though, from Reverend Dr. Althair Phil Dunn, a friend of yours, of ours. I'm going to read the first few sentences of his one a couple of days ago. Called to be a witness. Quote, Act 1-8, you'll receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you and be my witness. And he says something I think is interesting. Merriam-Webster defines a legal witness as a person who makes a statement in a court about whether he or she knows or has seen. Then he says this, where I come from, testifying as a witness is looked upon as a negative thing. I was taught don't see, don't tell. Although we were promised a change of identity and witness protection if we were willing to come forward, many chose to go to prison in due time instead of agreeing to testify. As believers, though, he writes, our faith encounter with Christ Jesus, we receive a new identity, and along with this new identity comes a witness protection program better than any agency can offer because Jesus promises to be with us forever. That's a great witness protection program. And I love how Dr. Lanzott brings that out in the reading from a couple of days ago. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your power. Thank you that you desire... And it's amazing you could push or shove your way in, but you oftentimes suggest that we invite you. And so today we invite you to these deliberations in this chamber. Many have been here before us and those that come after us, but in today's deliberations, we invite you to come, to speak, to make your will known. Thank you, Father, for your willingness to, as Dr. Lanzott reminds us, have witnesses here. Help that to be a powerful reminder to each of us today. We thank you now for everything you're going to do and give you praise ahead of time in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Council Members and Memorials, Council Member Golombi. Thank you, Mr. President. Some of you might have seen in the newspaper, I think it was yesterday, Dr. Louis Lazar passed away. There's a health center named for him on Hurdle Avenue. I posted on one of the Riverside Black Rock Facebook accounts very early his obituary and said that if you grew up in 14207, you probably went to his office at least once. You would go in there at his office on Peoria and Garfield Street, and it was a big, huge waiting room, and you took numbers off the wall. I can remember going there and picking number 75, and they were on number 57, but he was an old-school doctor, and he would actually make host calls. He wasn't my primary care physician as a kid, but he was the emergency doctor if you had a strep throat or whatever and you couldn't get in. anywhere else. But Dr. Louis Lazar, I believe he was 98 years old when he passed away, led a wonderful life and the many, many stories that I read on Facebook and elsewhere are testimonies to just what a decent man he was and a decent neighbor. We also lost Elsie Jeremko. I've known Mrs. Jeremko for quite some time. She was also in her late 90s. Her passed away as well, were good friends of mine for quite some time. And she was very, very old school. Her parents died when she was young, and she took care of all the younger children. And something that today we live in a welfare state where things like that are taken care of for you, it wasn't when Mrs. Jarenko was a kid back in the 1920s and 30s. uh... but just a wonderful wonderful ladies going to be missed by her children and last but not least arm richards so it he passed away on richards wiki senior uh... his son lives in my district uh... dad had semi-retired and moved down to the Carolinas where he opened up a business in his retirement and he worked there full-time, but he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his wife, his children, in particular Rich, and his grandchildren. Calls the number what? Praying for a member of my family, my first cousin, Brian Bosley, passed. And, you know, Brian grew up on the rough side of the mountain, but one of the smartest people you ever want to meet, most genuine, give you the coat off his back. But we're praying for his daughter who lost her dad and both of his daughters, LaSheria and Brianna, and his brother, Michael. Just praying for their comfort. Thank you. Anyone else? Council Member Wendell? Thank you, Mr.
 Chair.
 We are mourning the loss of Mr. Kyle Winfield, a young father in the city of Buffalo. His family attends my church, and we just want them to know that they are in our thoughts and prayers as we move forward, especially his little guy. who at the funeral services were sitting there on the front row in his mother's lap next to his grandmother. And he was saying, I can still hear my daddy. I can still hear my daddy. My dad didn't. They had his father's picture in front of the church. I hope his father is still talking to him. I hope he can remember his father's voice for the rest of his life as vividly as I can remember my father's voice. So we want the Winfield family to know that they are in our thoughts and prayers. Thank you, Mr. Chair. When the Fruit Belt lost one, Mr. Frank Robinson, who was a huge worker in the Fruit Belt when it comes to some of the negative effects that come with gentrification, but he was always the voice of reason. Sometimes working with diverse groups can be rather challenging, but when Mr. Robinson would come in, he was just here last week with the groups from the Fruit Belt, and he would always be that calming person who would tell you, would talk very lightly but really knew what he was talking about. He ran a basketball league for the Baptist Laymen's Association and was very active with the Baptist Laymen's Association. And so he went to sleep, and we're really going to miss him in the city of Buffalo for what he does, for what he did. And of course, all of our men and women who have given their life across our world, but especially those from the United States of America, for the freedom of others, we pause for a moment of silence for all of the names mentioned. Thank you, Council Members and those who are in the people's house. I don't believe that there are any special presentations today. Seeing and hearing none, on a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on April 18, 2017. approved from the top right majority leave motion to take items 67 and 68 out of order 67 and 68 I'm 67 discharge item 17 145 from CD and that was second by customer for a little second by council reglement motion to death discharge second by councilmember Franczak motion is to adopt item 67 and 68 second by councilmember Golombet from the top yep one 376 grant finding special use permit motion to receive and follow items 1 & 2 second by councilmember Fileta can we pause for just one second Excuse me. Item 67 is just in a dot. Yeah, that's what we, I had to go back and take a look at this one. These are just not right.
 Okay. I just wanted to make sure, because my name was on them, so I wanted to make sure. You know. Was there a reason we discharged those today? Did somebody come... No, motion was to take them out of order and to adopt items in CD, the same items in CD 14 and 15 will be received as well. All right. I'm not comfortable with what we just did because I wasn't informed of this ahead of time, and it is in Ellicott District. So I'm going to come back to it at the end of the meeting because I want the clarification of why we just did that. And I got no notification on it. And I know that 45 days has passed, but we still, as a council, can make a decision on that. And because it is in the Fruitbelt area, I want to be very clear of why we just made that move. and i know corporation council ball informed corporation council howard to do that but there should have been a conversation with the district council member first so um can we just hold that one i want to rescind the motion at this time to rescind the second council member fontana um on both of those okay and then i'll get more clarification but i don't motion everyone put something up on before this body and i don't understand it from the top so item 3 1140 Jepson approved transfer title motion to send the CD second by councilmember wing move and for a man sale at 361 14th motion to approve items four and five second by councilmember Wyatt Item 6, amend sale of 494, 496, 498, 7th Street. Motion to send the CD, items 6 and 7. Second by Councilmember Fierle. Item 8, report of sale, 425 Broadway. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 9, report of sale, 101 Doak. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 10, report of sale, 107 Edison. motion to send to cd items 10 and 11. second by president portum stanley item 12 report of sale 142 james motion to approve items 12 through 18. second by council member franza item 19 certificate determination 2017 a bonds motion to receive and follow items 19 and 20. second by council member white item 21 appoint account clerk typist motion is sent to cd Second by motion to send, excuse me, is that 21? Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member DeLumbe. Item 22, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member DeLumbe. Item 23, changing contract, Lincoln Parkway Island Curb Replacement. Motion to approve items 23... 45 say that again majority motion to approve items 32 gives me 32 all right for some reason 23 through all the way through 45 second by councilman Glombeck is your computer are your computers moving Maybe it's just mine. Somebody come help me, please. Next item. Item 46, Chicken License 23, Sidway. Motion to send to ledge items 46 and 47. second by council member wing item 48 I return to city clerk without approval or disapproval motion to receive and follow items 48 through 51 second by council member Wyatt item 52 notice of appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to send civil service second by council member Fontana miscellaneous items item 53 update an outreach plans for NYPIRG fund motion to receive and file second by councilman Fontana item 54 concerns parks and recreation adult league fees motion to send the finance second by council member here a little item 55 young audiences request to speak at upcoming education meeting motion is sent education ready second by councilman Wingo item 56 public comment brownfield application on what Avenue motion to receive and file second by councilman for your little item 57 expedited cleanup 19 North Street Where are we right now? Item 57. I'm sorry. Item 57. Make sure I got the... Am I missing item 57? Item 57. item 57 is a receiving file second by councilman columbus petitions item 58 or 822 while the alternate existing garage for auto repair motion is sent to ledge in the city planning board item 58 59 60. to let you said to legislation and second by councilmember white item 61 petition received requesting removal of no parking motion is sent to the CD and DPW second by councilmember friends I am 62 planned unit development 490 Broadway motion is sent to led to city planning board second by president proton committees civil service I don't want to point assist infiltration plant operator motion to approve item number one majority leader time to notice appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to receive a file second by majority leader item three certificate of appointment most to approve second by councilmember wing finance committee item for debt statement the city of Buffalo no objections motion now to receiving files for through and including seven second by councilmember Golomba Community Development Committee item a be a friend request to speak at committee meeting motion to receive and file items 8 and 9 second by council member for your letter item 10 building communities accelerating holistic change at the request of the council we'd like to recommit items 10 and 11 second by council member Wyatt item 12 forced displacement 172 low and moderate income families motion to receive and file 12 through and including 15 second by president pro Tumskin legislation committee item 16 use 376 grant motion is to approve with conditions contingent on encroachment an encroachment permit from the Department of Public Works second by councilman front item 17 years 225 Lexington motion to approve with conditions say my customer item 18 permissions request proposed outdoor patio 229 lexington motion to approve second by the majority leader item 19 food store license 1517 broadway motion to approve with conditions Second by the Majority Leader. Item 20, food store license 896 Niagara. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 21, food store license 67 Sussex. Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 22, mobile food truck license 22, 23, and 24. All the food trucks, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Glumbert. Item 25, used car dealer 997 Sycamore. 25 is approved with conditions. They're not supposed to park unlicensed cars on city streets. Just keep them on their lots only. Second by Council Member White. Item 26, used car dealer 170 Walden. Motion to approve. Excuse me. i'm sorry item 26 used car dealer 170 walton 26 motion to approve second by customer freedom item 27 property manager license motion to approve with conditions second by council member columbia item 28 property managed license motion is to approve and my customer white there's a floor can we slip go back to number two item number 27 yeah motion is to revisit item 27 second by councilman glum but I want to thank the main council staff for reaching out to mr. acres regarding his property managers license as I normally do when we get these these licenses I go through the community and find make sure that the properties they have in that that they're going to be managing are in decent condition if there's a problem I try to ask them to address it in this particular one on Shirley Avenue mr. acres I saw that the roofing from prior to roof was caught caving in And so the staff reached out to him. He said he would take care of it. So that's part of the condition of this license that he's taking care of the roof. The roof looked like it was ready to fall in. So he sent a letter to us, and I want to make sure that letter is submitted to the council as part of his agreement to ensure that he consents to these conditions. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next item. item 29 granting retroactive membership near state retirement system 29 motion to adopt second by the president pro to item 30 ordinance amendment chapter 479 traffic motion is to approve second by councilman glum that item 31 food store license 937 Broadway motion to approve with conditions so my councilman front and item 32 to 29 elk 32 and 33, motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Resolutions, item 63, waive fees for Olmstead School. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glummet. Item 64, Lewis Street Pile. Motion to adopt items 64, 65, and 66. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 69, authorizing use of public water for grassroots gardens. What's the motion? So we're still not going to go to the... Oh, right. Skip over those. We'll skip over those. So 69 is sent to CDE. Second by Councilmember Lombeck, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr.
 President. Item number 65 is something that came out of our discussions in committee, and it is in regards to the NFTA. We've had representatives from the union and people that use the NFTA on a regular basis here at our committee meetings. And unfortunately, there's not a whole heck of a lot that we can actually do. We can't vote and make a decision. the nft a more user friendly in the city of buffalo but the one thing that we can do is we can use our bully pulpit here on the thirteenth floor and that's where this resolution has come from minutes calling for using some of the money money from the buffalo billions to instead of being used what appears to be no development in downtown or development that's going to make wealthier people wealthy uh... helping are people that are living at the poverty level people that are the working poor that we have in every single one of our districts i have residents in uh... my community told me that they've got a ride two different buses sometimes an hour and a half two hours a day one way to get to work so you're talking about three to four hours a day driving riding to and from work uh... because of the scheduling of the NFTA buses in and around the city of buffalo I think that we should be using some of that money towards the NFTA. What this resolution does is it requests that representatives from NFTA appear before the Common Council in one of our committees and work with us to try to see if we could come up with a plan that if we were able to get dollars from the Buffalo Billions that we would be able to improve the services. even if there are jobs in and around the city of Buffalo, if our people can't get to them, what good does it do? And that's a very, very serious problem. So I want to thank my colleagues for being supportive of this, and hopefully we'll be able to do more than just use our bully pulpit, but maybe we can get something accomplished by raising this question. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt? Can I be added to that as well? Yeah. Add Councilmember Wyatt to that resolution. All right. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 70, Home Rule Message Assembly Bill 4887, amend local finance law. Motion to adopt items 70 and 71. Thank you. second by council member fear little I'm 72 budget and personnel amendment licenses and permits motion to approve second by council member Wyatt I'm 73 cuts in New York State Cancer and Health Services Program motion is sent to CD second by councilor what I'm 74 Commissioner deeds public duties motion to adopt item 74 and 70 by my cousin Wingo motion to revisit items 67 and 68 Alright, so on these two items, I guess the 45 days has expired. I know that I've been having conversation with parking on these, and the only reason I'm very sensitive about them is because they're in the Fruitbelt area. And I did not want to lose any parking in the Fruitbelt area. I believe, and I'm going to be very honest, because I did not have this conversation before that this is going to be a wash, in some ways because there's going to be parking allowed in another area and this has to do i believe with some buses and and the bus routes so i want to be clear that i haven't been totally briefed on what this move was about to be in receiving and following it because it's after the forty five days and you never want to miss that again um they could have just went on and did this but I'm working closely with parking to make sure that we are not losing parking in the fruit boat so we can go ahead and receive you want to receive them so we already have so the motion was stand we rescinded that most so let's just make it so it's correct so call the item again item 67 discharge item 17 145 from CD The motion is to receive and file items 67 and 68. Hold on. I thought it was adopted. Give the motion. Lauren Howard, Assistant Corporation Counsel. The motion should be to adopt the discharge of the original item and then to receive it. That's right. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. That was the original motion. Motion to adopt items 67 and 68.
 Right. As stated by Corporation Counsel. As stated by Corporation Counsel. second by council member content announcement committee meetings community on civil service Tuesday May 9th 9 45 a.m. we on finance following civil service media and community involvement Tuesday May 9th 1 p.m. me on legislation Tuesday May 9th 2 p.m. special committees committee on education Wednesday May 10th 1 30 p.m. comes members any announcements comes with the white before we end the meeting I had hit my button to speak on item number 73. Say it again? I had hit the button to speak on item number 73. All right. You can speak on it, Colin. All right. I just wanted to thank my, Tyesha, for writing this. I think it's something that's very important regarding cuts to New York State Cancer and Health Services. We know that there's millions of individuals who have suffered with health issues, cancer being the number one cause of many deaths. And so these screenings are extremely important. So we hope that our state elected officials will... acquiesce and look at this and revisit it because to cut those type of dollars could put lives in danger and I don't think we want to put money over lives at any point in time so we sent this to Senator Chris Jacobs and Robin Scheminger and hope that they will you know look at this and really look at dollars that can save this program because it's extremely extremely important to many of the residents in our in our state thank you thank you sir anybody else announcements councilmember wango what's the menu We have a couple of things, Mr. President. We have the stakeholders meeting which is coming up on the 13th. That's at 8.30. We will be serving breakfast. Of course, it's great. It's been growing and I can't believe that we still fit in the same room. We're going to end up having to go over to the gym because we're filling up our multipurpose room. We want to encourage everyone to keep coming out, continue to invite your family, friends, and neighbors to be informed. we believe that a more informed community is a stronger community so come on out stakeholders breakfast meeting where we have breakfast also I forgot my other announcement you think about it comes remember why is that a menu yes sir one announced councilmember in addition beginning tomorrow Wednesday every Wednesday in the month of May right at Chuck Cash in place, Delvin Bailey Chuck Cash in place right at Westminster 3101 Bailey. It starts every Wednesday from 10am to 3pm so you don't have to worry about coming down the park and all that good stuff. You can see me right in district, no appointment necessary. This will take place every Wednesday in the month of May. As well as on Saturday June 10th we have our We Are One 3rd Annual University United Festival. Here's our big beautiful poster. You'll see them in the community. uh... but again this is more than just about music is about informing the community and bring the community together on this is our third year doing this and it's growing in a lot of positive feedback from folks and coming out and this is not just for a family but you are adults for children as well so we have petting zoo all sorts of things so June 10th Saturday parade and festival right in the University District thank you all right thank you mr. president it does hit me we're we're we're doing the mast in cleanup competition for our residents our block clubs we want everybody to compete in the master district We want to receive your before pictures before you do the cleanup and we'll do the judging after to see who Had the the most success of the most progress with the cleanup. We will help out with bags gloves Things of that nature, so to ensure. But also, May 7th is the large trash pickup day. So if you live in Madison District, use that as well to help you with your street cleanup. Make sure you throw your trash out. put up your pictures, and then we'll move forward, and the winner, call the office for what the prizes will be. Thank you, Mr. President. All right. Councilmember Franzen. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Wingo reminds me that this Saturday, May the 9th, will be the Seneca-Babcock cleanup ceremony. presided by Major Domo Art Robinson, who is here in chambers as he always is, and they do a great job in the community. They put some really huge piles out there that then Public Works, Mr. Stepniak, makes sure that everything is picked up. They do a great job on that Saturday. And then on May 20th, which is also a Saturday, the Field of Dream Block Clubs, which is Detroit Street, Coit Street, those streets that are off-broadway near the St. Stanislaus Church, Marva Threat and her block club will be organizing a big cleanup as well on that day and they do a wonderful job. Wonderful. Councilmember Fontana. Thursday for everybody watching in Kysertown is the meeting for the rock and cement crusher over at Oak Grove Construction. Oak Grove Construction is a major player in Western New York economy and the major player in the Western New York region as far as construction goes. They're currently redoing Harlem Road and West Seneca. They're also currently crushing cement illegally in West Seneca, and the town board there has taken action by sending a letter to them to say cease and desist all your operations within the town of West Seneca at the city border. And Oak Grove continues to defy the town in their request to stop the illegal use. So this Thursday, council members Hanley and myself are going to be hosting, Hart and myself are going to be hosting a meeting in the West Seneca Senior Citizen Center and that's over in West Seneca at 7 p.m. Thursday, what is it, May 4th. And that topic is gonna be Oak Grove. Oak Grove has been instructed to come to the meeting. They've agreed to come and residents could voice other concerns to Oak Grove Construction. After that happens, this is just a public meeting held by the council members. After this happens, they could then either scrap their idea, which I would recommend, or they could go back to the town board and the town planning board for an approval or a denial. I would think it's denial at that point, but we'll have to see. The last thing we want to do is have this approved by a judge somewhere down the road after every single elected official at the lower levels have disapproved it for good reason. So we're going to make as much noise, make the company aware that we don't want to see cement crushing in that West Seneca area region. We don't want to see it anywhere in the city of Buffalo. We're stuck with it, unfortunately, over in Seneca-Babcock, the fight that we've been doing for years. And to do another one after we've seen what it's done to that community would be an injustice to the public around West Seneca and Chihuahua as well as Kaisertown. So I need everybody out Thursday night, 7 p.m. That's going to be after our public hearing. I think the chair has announced the public hearings for the budget that we're doing. I'll be here at 5, but then I'm going to run out to West Seneca at 7 to do the public meeting that I have already posted. Thank you, Mr. Antenna. Mr. Franget. Thank you, Mr.
 President. I would also be remiss not to mention that May is Block Club recognition month. You know, all the many issues we work on without the block clubs, a lot of problems would not have been solved. And on Saturday, May 20th, the Buffalo Board of Block Clubs will be having their annual dinner as well for those who would like to attend. Thank you. The gentleman from the Mastin District. Thank you, Mr. Chair. One last announcement regarding the rescheduling of the Education Committee meeting for the community. That will be May 10th at 1.30 right here in Council Chambers due to the budget hearing. We did not have an education meeting last month, but we had an education community meeting. We look to have an education committee meeting this month, again, that's May 10th at 1.30 here in Council Chambers. And that's rescheduled due to the... Thank you, sir. And for the public who is watching, our budget hearings begin on Thursday, May the 4th. They are different than in past years. They will begin at 9 a.m. There will be a break for lunch, and then we will resume. possible all of the departments will be heard on May the 4th. If not, it will carry over to the afternoon of Friday, May the 5th. The workshops will be on Thursday, May the 11th, with the same type of setup. So we invite the public. It is your house. It is your budget. And we invite you to come to the hearings, but we'll hear from the general public at 5 p.m., Thursday May the 4th to final announcements on Friday this Friday May the 5th I'll be going door-to-door for those who have called for an appointment and cannot get out of your houses I'll come to you by calling 851 4980 and I'll bring the entire Ellicott staff so we come to your living room as we did last month and stakeholders meeting for Ellicott is Monday May 15th Pratt Willard at 6 o'clock at 5 30. thank you much you ready to go until we meet again shall we sing motion to adjourn second by