Council President Pritchard. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scalin. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. From the top. Item number one, call for a special session. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairlawn. Item number two, Mayor's Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Budget Overview. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number three, Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Council President, this is the item we don't have before. Oh, yeah. This item has not been delivered to us. Well, it has not been delivered. Right. So what we will do is we have informed the administration they can file it for our meeting tomorrow, and then we'll send it to the Committee as a whole. Okay. So the motion right now would be send without rec or?
 Well, we don't have anything to say. We're just going to withdraw. Yep. Well, we rescind the previous motion then. Second by Council Member Filon. All right. Item number 4, Mayor's recommended budget for 2022-2023. Motion is sent to Committee of the Whole. Second by Council Member White. Motion to receive and file.
 Item number five. We will be in recess. We will begin our meetings. We have the schedules yet. Our workshops, our public hearing, everything has already been scheduled. We encourage the citizens. We've already started receiving e-mails.
 to notify the council. I'll distribute out any email I have so that everybody's aware of what I'm receiving. And if you decide to distribute anything you have, it would be welcome. So we're all able to see what individual citizens might be writing to their councilman. Councilman Golanbeck? Do you know offhand when actually the community meeting will be? Okay.
 All budget hearings will begin the week of Monday, May 9th, 2022. Public hearing for the public to speak on a budget will be Tuesday, May 10th at 5 p.m. at City Hall Council Chambers 13th floor. If you would like to participate in a public hearing, you may send emails to council staff at buffalony.gov or call 716-851-5105 in advance. All right. Thank you.
 Anybody have anything else? Oh, you don't have the workshops yet. The work, all budget workshops will be the following week, Monday, May 16, 2022, and will take place in room 1417. Okay. All right. Number five. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Golombi. Stand adjourned.