Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Fontana? Present. Council Member Fronzek? Here. Council Member Golombek? Here. Council President Pridgen? Here. Council Member Rivera? Present. Council Member Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wingo? Here. Council Member Wyatt? Here. And so, final one call for special session pursuant to section 3.9 of the Charter of of five council members dated April 27, 2017. Percentage to hear with, I hereby call a special meeting of the common council be held in council chambers, City Hall, Buffalo, New York on May 1, 2017 at 3 p.m. for the following purpose, to receive and take appropriate action on all items relating to Mayor's recommended budget 2017-2018. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number two, Mayor's fiscal year 2017-2018 budget overview. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 3, Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fialello. Item number 4, Mayor's budget recommendations 2017-2018. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Franczak. And before we get to item number 5, just reminding... we're not broadcast live I think we are recording this one of the public that this year the hearing and the budgets will be on consecutive Thursday nights with the afternoon meeting the evening meeting being on next third on this Thursday what's the date on it May 4th at 5.30? 5 p.m. 5 p.m. And that so our commissioners know we're running all day on Thursday, one meeting after the other. We will call each department. We're going to ask for two departments to be in chambers at a time. When we get done with one, we'll call for the other one to get down. If things run later and we are not able to get all of the departments in on Thursday, we will come back on Thursday afternoon to get the rest of it done on both days. If for some reason we aren't able to do it then, it spills over to the next week, but we will take care of the people's business. Mr. President, what time do the meetings begin? 9 a.m. 9 a.m. Is that okay? Now for the purpose of the general public that, for transparency purposes so they can be engaged if they want to attend, how will we be disseminating when these department heads are coming in? If they wanted to come in? Is a list of all of them and they're going to have a list? So the public will come in at 9 or? Thank you. And that way we are officially keeping our department heads continuing to operate their departments. And if there was something where we needed to stay longer, we'll do what we have to do and make sure we do it. but hopefully this will be a little move a little faster but have everybody here and in the building because there are times that there might be a question for another department that we saw a day before everybody's asked to be in the building on those days all right any other questions council members all right no questions motion to adjourn said goodbye council member wingo