3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Thank you. Councilmember Fontana. Thank you. Councilmember Franzen. Here. Councilmember Blumbeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. Thank you. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Let's stand for the pledge of allegiance to the United States of America, indivisible. Our council chaplain will introduce our... the pastor who will say today's prayer. Thank you, Council President. Many of you know Reverend Mark Luke, Second Baptist Lackawanna, and President of the NAACP. We were here before, I think, the Open and Share a while back, but that was before we became good friends. For those of you who travel, you'll understand that the invitation of the Buffalo Jewish Federation went to Israel at the end of last year, was with us as well. Reverend Blum, your seatmate in economy. Well, you've not flown here. I mean, I'm just saying, that seat, Mr. Golombek, there, they would divide that in two, and that would be for two people on an airline. It just was, we were actually seatmates both, correct? So we saw each other at the best and worst, and became incredible friends. You know that with the passing of Mr. Messiah this last week, and of course what Reverend Blue does with the NAACP, I just wanted to think about the legacy and . Let us bow our heads. Father, we thank you, Lord, for this day. And we thank you, Lord, for this occasion and time. Lord, you have always been with us in our good and our bad. You said you'd never leave us, no forstaker. And Lord, we thank you for that. We thank you for health and strength. Lord, we also thank you for a man that you've blessed us to walk with and to share with, Frank Messiah. We ask that you continue to bless his family as they go through this bereavement. But Lord, there are many families as well, Lord, who are going through the same thing. And Lord, we ask your blessings upon them. Bless this council, Lord. As decisions come for our city, Lord, we pray that you give them wisdom to look out for all, to look and care for all. Lord, we ask that you continue to bless their families and bless our mayor, oh, Heavenly Father, as well. As this team comes together, Lord, to forge ahead, to make this city better. Lord, we thank you. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. And of course, then we open this meeting and hear memorials remembering Frank Masai. Council Member Fontana. Thank you. If you indulge me for just one minute, Mr. Masai and I had a long history together, much longer than I thought, to be honest with you. I knew Frank for my first couple of years, and shake hands and say hi, nothing too special. But it was at my grandfather's wake where we became essentially one, over on Hurdle Avenue at Perna Funeral Home. Mr. Pasaya walked into my grandfather's funeral. And I said, what? And I said he came, I thought he came because he knew me. It's not the case. He came because he knew my grandfather. My grandfather was one of his first employers back on Niagara and Rhode Island at the west side at the old Empire Auto Park. And Frank looked at me and I saw in his eyes that there was something that he wanted to say. And he said, your grandfather was a great man he treated me with much respect and i went to tell my uncles at the time they were still with us and they says i remember frank used to work with us at the station and he was an incredible man served his country served his community and that's the frank messiah story i know a man that expected respect and gave respect so with that i want to PASS ALONG ALL OF OUR SYMPTOMS HERE AT THE COMMIT COUNCIL TO HIS FAMILY AND ME AND FRANK ALWAYS HAD THAT SPECIAL BOND THROUGH THE ACTIONS OF MY GRANDFATHER AND FRANK. THANK YOU. COUNCIL MEMBER FRANZO. THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT. I'D LIKE TO REMEMBER ROBERT FOX WHO IS THE SENIOR PRINCIPAL TAX ASSESSOR HERE AT THE CITY OF BUFFALO. a bunch of time and other times he would come and meet so many people at Polk or to the investment department. He was one of the nicest guys that I know. He was very active in the parish at the Precious Blood Church, later at St. Stan, he traveled all over the world. Democratic, he was the guy that could just be really talking to you about his experience. And then also Francis Gilewski. from last week he was a volunteer at mr johnson response to love center used to get up at five o'clock in the morning every day helped me 475 people every day painted delver's campus just helping people in the community they still do faith pretty good helpers Also, Norm Paolini, some of us may remember Norm Paolini, helped clean metros at St. Louis Mission in Percy. Also, you know, very important to the people that are being fed every day, people that are being counseled every day. Norm was quite an enemy, who we all know, when the commission passed away. I cranked his eyes story is that he and I Sat next to each other at the three-county development agency Thank you, how's everyone go Thank You mr. Chair We want the family of Terrence came more know that they are not thoughts and prayers as he passed away last week Services will be Saturday at the Great Baptist Church. And if I could just say something very briefly about Frank Messiah as well. I remember him growing up. He was a household name. And then I met his daughter, Francesca, of course, of which she is a fireball all by herself. And I remember meeting Mr. Messiah for the very first time. I'm not generally starstruck. But when you grow up hearing of a name and all the things that they have endured, and to know how instrumental and impactful they were, and you being where you are as a young person growing up and being in politics now, especially affording all the opportunities that he was able to afford for all of us. He shook my hand and he smiled with his big eyebrows, and he said, how you doing Mr. Wingo? And I was so impressed that he knew who I was that I didn't know how to respond to him. I just shook his hand and just smiled. But he was somewhat of a stalwart and we really will be missing his presence. But he did not leave his presence, he did not leave his positions or the work in incapable hands. As we heard from the current president, Pastor Mark E. Blue, today, I believe that his legacy will continue to live on. through the folks who knew him and knew the work that he was trying to do and Appreciate what he has done for all of us because it's his shoulders that many of us stand on so again The family of Frank Messiah he will be sorely missed But we do know that he is resting in heaven and resting in peace And we ask to pray for peace for the family as they go through this Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As a former president of NAACP in Newport News, Virginia, I'm honored to be able to speak on behalf of Mr. Masai, who I didn't know a great deal, but I was able to celebrate with him the presidency of Barack Obama as we were at the convention in New York City and we got a chance to talk. Being president of a civil rights organization is a thankless job. It's very difficult, very challenging. Sometimes you see it by yourself. And he did this for over 20 some odd years. And that speaks volumes of his character and his care. I'm sure he could have been doing a lot of other things. I would many times watch him on the control board and have him ask very burning, pointed questions. And I'm like, well, where did you get that expertise to ask those financial questions? So it seems as though he was a jack of all trades and very knowledgeable and caring. I recognize him and I ask for prayers for his family. I know Francesco very well and really pray for his legacy and that he was able to endure for such a long period of time caring about people who sometimes didn't thank you, but you acknowledged that he was there. I think the outpouring of love and affection for him on Facebook and other media, social media platforms, speaks volumes of the... Difference that he made in the city of Buffalo Councilman I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr. President the Riverside neighborhood lost Julie Trana her maiden name was Winkle sass Winkle sass was a big family in many regards in the neighborhood. I think they had like eight or ten brothers and sisters. I believe one became a priest. I think one played professional baseball for a short period of time. And I went to school with a couple of the females, so a couple years younger and a couple years behind me, including Julie. Very sadly, just in a short period of time, maybe a few months ago, she was diagnosed with cancer. Residents We're planning a fundraiser for her for May 27th at the end of the month. So obviously this really was very, very quick and shocking, but she's going to leave behind her family and her friends and the parish community of All Saints Church on Esser Avenue, very saddened by her passing. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Council President, Pastor Blue has the arrangement, and it would be good, I think, maybe even for the public access to walk in. Starting on next week, Friday the 11th, Mr. Messiah will be lying in state at the St. John Baptist Church on the 11th of May from 5 to 730. On Saturday, May the 12th, he'll have a wake service from 10 to 11. At 11 o'clock, we'll start the homegoing services on Saturday, May the 12th at the St. John Baptist Church. Hearing no others, we also mourn the passing of Mother Sarah Vickers Hopkins, very active in her community and, of course, in elected offices. So she is passing. And for all of our servicemen and women who have given their life since our last meeting for the freedom of our country and others across this world, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. May we see you? Thank you. A motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on April 17, 2018. Approved. I think we have a lot of mics open, and so it's giving a little feedback. So if your mic is on, if you could just cut it off, accept the majority leader, because we're getting feedback in the system. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 82 out of order. Motion to take item 82 out of order, seconded by Council Member Fairlawn. Discharge from legislation committee? Motion to adopt. Oh, the discharge is from legislation. All right. I didn't know what was going on. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Now, just explain why we took that out of order. Was it because the council member doesn't know? from the top and then we can figure we can come back to it from the top item a mayor's fiscal year 2018 2019 budget overview yeah yeah okay um one item eight mayor's fiscal year 2018 2019 budget overview Motion to receive and second by council member go on bit item B mayor's four-year financial plan motion to receive and file Second by councilman front and I don't see mayor's budget recommendations for 2018 2019 fiscal year ocean to send committee of the vote Thank my customer front your letter item 1 1 88 East North Street designate Mastin Avenue I'm Ria's local landmark motion to send the legislation items 1 3 public hearing date is set for May 22nd at 2 p.m. For public Second by council member the Lombok now one thing and I want to make sure that staff has reached out I do want some type of explanation of what is the process right now because we're seeing a lot of Buildings come before us with landmark and I'm not against that I think we just as the people of the city deserve to know what process is being used For all of these that are coming toward us and let me state again Not against these buildings being landmark and I think these are some significant buildings Personally at this point that should be landmark. I just want to know the process of why we're receiving three meeting approximately and if there is a rhyme or reason fine what what what I want to make sure is that the public knows that there's somebody just going out cherry-picking or waking up in the middle of the night saying let's landmark this building so please make sure someone is here from present from the preservation board who can explain up across item for men report of sale 280 Wohlers and 495 East Utica motion to approve items 4 through 7 second my council member Fontana I made report of sales 6 37 Broadway motion send the CD items 8 9 and 10 so my council member wing go I'm 11 reporter sale 147 low pierre motion to approve items 11 through 13 and my council member feel little I am 14 8 85 river rock leads motion to send finance and my councilmember friends on 15 urban homestead program at 159 Newberg and 152 Springer 204 Woodlawn motion to approve items 15 through 17. My councilmember friends in the controller item 18 certificate necessity transfer funds motion to receive and file items 18 through 21. My councilmember why? Council Member Golombak has the floor. On item number 21, could we have that done immediately, please, waive the wait period? Waive the 45 days. Yeah. Because that's on Tonawanda Street. What happened was, long story short, there was a bus route that was removed. And some of the signs were never removed. And people are getting tickets for being parked in a bus route, et cetera. It's not a bus route anymore. So the sooner we can get rid of these, the better. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Motion to waive the 45-day waiting period. Seconded by Councilmember Golombides. Item 22, changing contract, police and fire headquarters at Dillon Renovations. Motion to approve items 22 through 33. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 34, appoint plant filtration supervisor one. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Fierlito. Item 35, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. by President Hickson item 36 permission roll in our fax police crash assistance program motion to approve second by councilman I'm 37 point police officer motion to send the civil service by councilman scam item 38 food store license 490 Connecticut motion to approve my cousin friends I'm 39 food store license 1200 hurdle ocean sent the legislation my customer friend I had a 40 food store license 290 Walden motion to approve quick condition my council member Wyatt and 41 mobile food truck loose cannon food truck motion to approve my council member item 42 property management license motion send the legislation I've been 42 and 43 second by councilmember Kierle item 44 restaurant dance license free spirit missionary Baptist Church motion to approve items 44 45 and 46 second by councilmember White item 47 sidewalk cafe rusty nickel brewing company motion to send legislation second by councilmember Kierle item 48 appoint building inspector motion to send civil service items 48 49. second by president protest item 50 auction scrap vehicles motion to approve items 50 and 51. second by councilman freeloader item 52 bsa 2018 2019 budget motion to receive and file item 52 through 57 second by councilman Colombo item 58 appoint assistant legislative aid to ocean put that I'm 58 through safety in my comes from the lumber item 61 no so private seasonal flat motion to receive and file My customer plans I'm 62 no supplies temporary provisional permit motion to send civil service in my customer in front and I am 63 extension request for adaptive reuse permit for 310 Jersey motion to receive and file my customer friends I'm 64 I see QR negative deck 31 kill Hoffer motion to adopt item 64 and 65 So my customer Wingo item 66 notice of flame motion sent to claims committee. I 7th Council Member Frantziani. Item 67, Checkers Bar Development, 1854 Hurdle Avenue. Motion to receive and file. 7th Council Member White. Item 68, Concerns Residential Project for Broadway. Motion to send to CD. 7th Council Member Belumbo. Item 69, 205 Bailey concerns roadwork motion to send to CD and EPW And my customer friends I'm 70 appeal of Charles G Militello Buffalo Police Department sergeants exam motion to send the civil service So my customers and petitions items everyone adaptive reuse permit 1030 Parkside motion to send legislation City planning board and my customer friends. I'm 72 City Honors petition motion to send to Education Committee second my customer what committees still service item 1 position allocation maintenance and motion to approve items number one through including number ten second by council by the majority record me the negative on to we please record mr. friends act and a negative on item number two all right I do 11 notes appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to receive in file second by councilman front and I'm 12 point deputy commissioner community services I just wanted to ask a question on number 12. This is an exempt position, and I know we have some questions regarding the salary. Because it's exempt, do we have to approve it? You don't have to approve anything. This council's – would this be an approval or – Yeah, we don't. This council doesn't have to approve anything. We have to do our due diligence. And if there's a unreadiness, this can go back to committee. It can be recommitted. Okay. Motion to recommit. Thank you. The motion from the chair is to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Finance Committee, item 13, bond rating reports. Motion to receive and file sitting my class member white on 14 2017 annual report Buffalo traffic violations agency We're send this over to mr. Rivera's Budget Committee. Sure. He'll be through second bottom. It's gonna be here item 15 contract amendment motion to approve Second by council member for your level. I'm 16 request to speak relief from Dutch the city. Okay 16 and 17 for no objections motion now to a to receive in file second by council or what community development committee item 18 pilot agreement for eight hurdle and 100 back Motion to approve 18 and 19 second by a majority leader. I'm 20 abandoned sale portion of Dearborn Street. I This is an item that we've been working on for a bit of time in the neighborhood. It's a dead end and landlocked part of Dearborn Street that is behind the old railroad terminal that is around Tonawanda extension near Niagara and Amherst streets. I believe that they did check, Mr. Fontana, that it did go in front of the appraisal board and that the price that came in front of us was looked upon as being fair and commensurate with what was being sold in the rest of the neighborhood. So I'd like to make a motion that we adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 21, transfer jurisdiction of 5 Pomeroy. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item 22, petition for speed enforcement and safety measures to Parkway Streets. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item 23, approval of the abandonment and sale of Portia Dearborn. Motion to adopt. I think this is actually the moving item, but motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Freelander. Item 23, approval of the... Will that Corporation Council? Motion to rescind the original motion and motion to approve now. Motion is to rescind the original motion, seconded by Council Member Fontana. Motion is now to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Fontana. Next item. Item 24, Report of Sale, 1921 Bailey. Motion to approve 24 and 25. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Mr. President. Councilman Fontana, you have the floor. Thank you. On 24. And if you all would do me a favor, if you can buzz in, the only reason for this system, because then it will record your comments. I was getting lazy. I'm sorry. Thank you. It's okay, sir. Thank you very much. On this item, number 24, on Bailey Avenue, we had evidence that they were using this for parking of cars on grass, which is illegal per city law. So this applicant has put forth a letter that we will append for the law department that our chief of staff and our deputy chief of staff, Damon, has. That they will not use this as a parking lot. It'll just be used as green grass space that will be kept and not parked on. Oh, so that's the condition? Yeah, you don't want to see that driving down Bailey having all these lots being used as junk lots. So he has agreed in writing that he will not do that. So that condition has been recorded for the record. Next item. Legislation Committee, item 26, mobile food truck. If there are no objections, motion to approve items through and including 29. Thank you. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 30, Sidewalk Cafe Waves. This item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by the Majority Leader. item 31 use to sustain Amherst for tavern outdoor dining and live entertainment 31 and 32 motion to approve and my president proximate item 33 zoning map amendment 10 14 center and 23 31 kill Hoffer 33 and we need to recommit because the applicants gotta correct their some of their paperwork all right second my councilmember window item 34 special use 1854 hurdle motion to approve with conditions second by councilmember Wyatt 35 ordinance member chapter 337 preservation standard this item originally came without recommendation the motion is now to receive and file my cousin or what I'm sorry there's a Karen Gordon assistant corporation council 35 that one should be recovered oh you want to recommit it okay motion to rescind receive and file Motion is to rescind the seating file. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Motion now to recommit. Motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. 136, food store license 473 East Delavan. This item should be approved with conditions as established by the Massing District Council. Seconded by the Massing District Council Member. Resolutions. Item 73, transfer funds, City Hall improvements. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBECK. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBECK. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBECK. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBECK. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOLUMBECK. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL Second by Council Member Fioletto. Council Member Golumbac has the floor. The only reason he didn't ring in is because his computer isn't working. Yeah, thank you very much. Item number 76 is actually a newspaper article that was in the Buffalo News a week or so ago. And I think it's very, very pertinent and it came out at a perfect time for us with the budget session just starting today. To paraphrase the article, in Amherst they're looking at limiting the amount of events that they are going to allow in their wealthy community as compared to the city of Buffalo. They said that it's costing them too much money for police protection and for inspections and for sanitation, etc. I believe, from what I remember, that they said, and I can't read it because my computer won't open, but I think that they said they were looking at new policies. and possibly raising fees for organizations to run events in Amherst. And once again, if this is happening in Amherst, one of our wealthier communities, you can imagine what's going on in the city of Buffalo. And I was very, very happy today when I saw the budget with some of the changes that were in it. I wasn't happy with other aspects of it. But, you know, I have to on a regular basis go to the residents in my district and I have to say to them, gee, I'm sorry, you know, we can't get River Rock Road done this year, but we're going to take care of some of the issues in downtown Buffalo. Well, this explains that even a community like Amherst that has far more money than we do in the city of Buffalo is facing some of the same issues that we are, and they're doing the same things that we're being forced to do. I'd like to, hopefully we'll be able to take a serious look at this and decide how we're going to move forward in the future because I just want to make sure that our neighborhoods aren't paying the prices for letting people come into the city of Buffalo and have a bargain, quite honestly. When you end up paying $250 or even $500 to have an event that you're having people donate a lot of money for in a poor city like Buffalo. I think that people could pay a little bit more. So I'm glad to see what's going on with the city, but I'd like my colleagues just to take a glance at that article. Thank you. Absolutely. And there are some parks and suburbs that, unless you are a resident, You cannot go and play in that park. You can't just take your child to that park. But I don't think there's any park in the city of Buffalo that's owned by the city of Buffalo where there are those type of restrictions. People can come in, they play golf, they play kickball, reserve locations. So I think we do have to take a serious look at how we're providing those services on the backs of the city taxpayer. Thank you for that. Mr. President. councilman fronten thank you just on that one point just so it doesn't get forgotten me my wife and my son were kicked out of the chituaga town park one year because we were not residents so you're right that does happen and it still happens to this day we were told to leave the park and i would understand why and then they said you're a buffalo councilman get out of the park wow and i'm like okay so you know where i live i gotta leave and they're like yes i'm like okay goodbye i never came back and you never went back no but if i see a chief duaga councilman in delaware park i might kick him Good luck with that, sir. Yeah, good luck with that. I'll be in the news. You know, you are like a deputy police. So you could... Next item. Thank you. Item 77, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt item 77 and 78. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 79 has been withdrawn. Item 80, appoint assistant legislative aide to. Motion to adopt. Second by the majority leader by President Protel. Item 81, amending toying companies policy procedure in the city of Buffalo. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by President Protel. Item 83, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to adopt. Oh, excuse me. Item 83 is approved. Right. Second by Council Member Franczak. 83 is, uh, what is that? Budget and Pursuit. Please record me in the negative. Please record Council Member Franczak in the negative. Next item. Item 84, Commissioner Deeds. Motion for that. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 85, naming Suspension Bridge and Golf Course to P.J. McFarland Bridge. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Fontana. Who has the floor? Is that the end of the agenda? I wanted to catch something at the end. Yes. Okay. If we could go back to revisit an item, I need to amend the motion on the item for Habitat for Humanity. Okay, I'm getting to it. Item number, so the what item? Let me find it for you. 92? No, I think it's in the regular agenda. Let's find it. There we go. Newberg, item number 15 in the regular agenda. Motion to revisit item 15. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you very much and thank you for the floor. At this time, I'm asking that 159 Newberg, that portion of this item be tabled or sent. Sent back to well table this fine. It could be tabled within the council We need to hold a meeting with the parties involved here There's a school across the street of the at the charter school that want to have this property as well as habitat So I promised the school that I give them a fair chance to talk about it and by approving it today I'm kind of short circuiting my promise to them. I talked to mr. Mahaffey and he was okay if we tabled the new board portion of this till two weeks and Can we send this to a committee so it doesn't sit on the council's table? Okay, sure. We can send it over to finance. Let's send it to finance. So to be clear, so the motion is to rescind the previous motion because we're going to take it apart. So the motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Council Member Golombak. And then the new motion is to approve with removing 159 Newberg out of the approval. It truly is. And sending 159 Newberg only to finance. Sure. Correct? Thank you very much. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Any other revisits before we... Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, May 8th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, Tuesday, May 8th, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, May 8th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, May 8th, 2 p.m. Special committee. Committee on education, Tuesday, May 8th, 12 p.m. Announce the budget. Budget hearings begin Wednesday at 10 a.m. Thursday at 10 a.m. Thursday at 10 a.m. All right. Do we have the whole schedule? I just want to make it public. So the budget hearings will begin, gentlemen, on Thursday to give all council members and staff a chance to review this budget and review. So that the public knows all of our meetings are public. The workshops will begin on Monday, May 7th. They will be printed online beginning at 10 every day and then breaking for lunch and coming back at 1. We will also be together on then Wednesday, May 9th, same schedule, 10 to 12, 1 to 3. Thursday, 10 to 12, 10 to 12. And then a possible recall of any departments that we may need to speak with on Monday, May 14th. 10 to 12. That doesn't mean every department will come back, but if a council member has a question that hasn't been answered, we will come back then for that. And then there will be a public hearing on the budget on May the 15th. Yes, May the 15th at 5 p.m. for the public to come. Now, that does not mean that the public cannot call your council member, cannot call the clerk's office if they have a concern or want to add. I want this to be a very transparent process to the point where the public, all of these meetings are broadcast live except the workshops. But the workshops are public. And people can. We're elected to represent the people. We want to hear from the people. Everyone can call the President Pro Temp's office. I'm just kidding. Call Chris Gamble's office. But I think it's so important that people realize that when the mayor's budget is presented, it is not a rubber stamp of this council. And it is important that our constituents, you know, that they are heard and sincerely heard. This will be the first year where we had, we've already had one hearing where we heard from the public. Now the mayor has presented. There will be another public hearing. All right. So all of those will be printed and published, right? Yeah, so it'll be printed on the city website of our budget hearings or you can call any of our offices to get specifics. Last thing is this is subject to change. If a department, if we finish a workshop early, we will go to the next workshop. The only thing that will remain will be the lunch period. But it is subject to change. Make sure the record reflects that. Okay. so that if someone comes thinking the department was at a certain time, we're going to keep rolling through so that we can spend the majority of time in those areas where there might be a lot of questions and not have to rush through it. All right? I think we've moved it to committee, though. Thank you. All right. Everything. Any other announcements? Council members, council member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just want to announce a meeting regarding the St. Rose Lima School Assembly Hall. The residents weren't. happy with what the original proposal was. So we're going to have another community meeting May 7th, which is a Monday at 530 at the Daily Planet. And we also want to invite those who would like to volunteer for the University United Festival meeting at 995 Kensington on May 9th at 530. So if you're interested in volunteering or even being a vendor, you can come to that meeting. And our festival will take place on June 9th, Saturday. It's parades starting at 10 AM, festival at 11. at the rotary field. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Mastin District is, of course, hosting our monthly stakeholders meeting. Of course, this much because of all of the changes in the budget, well, not changes in the budget, because of the budget this year, we've invited the administration to come and explain to the constituency of Mastin exactly what's happening with the budget and what that means to them. So, Saturday, next week, Saturday the 12th, At 8.30 a.m., of course, we've invited the mayor's team to come in and explain all of the implications of the raises in the budget and what that means to everyone who is a homeowner in Madison District. So, again, that's 8.77 East Delavan, 8.30 a.m., Saturday, May the 12th. All righty. Anybody else? All right. Majority Leader? Majority Leader? Thank you, my culture, my wife. We adjourn.