Okay, we're live. Countdown. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Present. Councilmember Farrelletto? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Here.
 Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. I am here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. Let's stand for the pledge up to the flag.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We will now receive our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council President, and thank you to Chief of Staff Malcolm, who kept working to get me on as I got getting kicked off with technology. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
 I was on a National Day of Prayer Zoom call last week, regionally, and verses that Pastor Jonathan Berger from Lovejoy used struck me as especially appropriate for our council meeting together today. They're from the Book of Lamentations. And as many of you recognize, the concept of lament or lamentations is about sorrow, about painful times. In Chapter 3, these verses...
 The thought of my suffering and homelessness is bitter beyond words. I'll never forget this awful time as I grieve over my loss.
 For those of us who know people who have been visited by this horrible illness, including my wife's brother and now sister-in-law, for you, Council President, and your family, and for so many of others of us around this region and around the world, we will never forget this awful time as I grieve over my loss. We'll never forget these days. Thank you.
 But the writer of Lamentations then says, Yet I still dare to hope when I remember this, the faithful love of the Lord never ends. His mercies never cease. Great is his faithfulness. His mercies begin afresh each morning. I say to myself, the Lord is my inheritance. Therefore, I hope in him.
 What a contrast between the bitterness, the suffering, the homelessness, the awful times, the grief, the loss, but then comes the point of hope, the point of a better tomorrow. As one of the television stations says right now, this too shall pass. This too shall pass. And I want you
 even as council members to recognize everything that's happening in terms of pain and hurt and loss and suffering, but don't lose track of what we're looking for a better tomorrow with God's faithful love, not ending his mercies, never ceasing and his great faithfulness. Let's pray together.
 Father, thank you so much for your goodness. Thank you that on bad days, you're still good. Thank you that on horrific seasons, you're still good. Thank you during the storm of the century.
 that you want to help each of the council members, not just today, not just even just them, but their staffs, their constituents, every district in the city of Buffalo. You want us to remember and recognize the hurt, the pain, but you also want us to remember your faithfulness and the hope that you've promised. I declare right now the signs of hope and life returning to Buffalo, New York, tough decisions to be made, tough decisions,
 legislative decisions that need to be made during a budget month. But Father, I thank you that you're the faithful God now with each of us. We invite you to be God during the storm. Captain this ship.
 in a way beyond our ability, our wisdom, our natural talents, as good as they are brought to bear. Thank you that yours are far greater. And we ask even now that you would guard and guide and direct each council member and this council team together, especially today during this session. We invite your powerful presence now. Navigate the ship through the storm. In Christ's name, amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. And to Councilmembers, again, I am working from a device where I cannot see everyone. I can only see, for some reason, nine at a time. So you will have to acknowledge, and I don't know if this is back at Council staff, if that could be adjusted. But I can't see all of the Councilmembers. Memorials at this time? Yes.
 I do Mr. President Golombek. Mr. Member Golombek. Thank you. Dennis Golombek, no relation, actually a former school teacher, art teacher, passed away. I got to know him years back through some Polish American organizations.
 And obviously because of the last name, we compared some notes, but there was no relation, maybe going back to the old country. But also Beverly Egan. Beverly was a block club leader from 15 years or so ago, starting the group that became Believe in Black Rock.
 She was sick for the past year or so, and is gonna be very, very sorely missed by her husband or daughter, grandchild, et cetera, as well as the community in old historic Black Rock. Thank you, sir. Any other council members? Yes, sir. Council member Wingo. This morning, I got the news that a colleague lost his mother this morning.
 Her name was Prem L. Bajwa and her son is Dr. Kush Bajwa, who is a PhD and an educator extraordinaire. We are mourning with him as he lost his rock, his his anchor. His mother meant the world to him. I am informed that he was with her.
 holding her hand as she transitioned.
 The city of Buffalo mourns with Dr. B, who he's affectionately known as through a lot of young scholars who are in their postgraduate programs and graduate programs. We want him to know that we are thinking of him and for his family as they mourn the loss of his mother. And with that, Mr. Chair, that will conclude my memorial.
 Thank you, sir. Any others? And just call out your name again. I can only see six or nine at a time on the iPad. Hearing no other, we also mourn the passing of Constance Cathcart, a very faithful member of the St. Paul Amesion Church, a member of the Ellicott District, one who helped me, her and her sister Linda, when I ran every time.
 They lived over in the area where they said, get our street done. And we were tired to get our street done. And she will be missed. Just a wonderful woman who lived most of all of the,
 the time that I knew her for the last 40 some years, 50 years, on Fox Street, and just a wonderful family, the Ingram and Cunningham family. So we're praying for that loss, not only for our community, but also for her family, who loved her so, so very much. Any others? Yes.
 Hearing no other, we always remember our men and women who have given their life since our last meeting. Those who have given their life in the fight. Usually we're talking about wars on the land. But we now want to remember those who go into hospitals, those frontline workers, those people who...
 are in the ambulance, the bus drivers who are transporting people, and many who have gotten sick in the front line of working through this. So we are now praying for them. And we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you, Councilmembers. There is a special presentation from Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I will be just acknowledging two events or two individuals today. The first is I would like to recognize everyone that helped assist my office at the Fillmore Food Drive at the Broadway Market last Friday. It was a
 a wonderful event. We were able to get thousands of pounds of food and be able to create grocery bags for folks in the neighborhood. And Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz, Legislator Howard Johnson, Donna Latham Edwards from the Greater East Side Field of Dreams Block Club, the peacemakers, Pastor Giles Murray-Holman, and everyone in my district that spans from the east side to the west side and everyone in between, they came together
 they brought groceries and they really were we were a united district on that day so i just want to recognize that and the second is i would like to recognize star valentino mr valentino is the creator of do something good for your neighbor day he reached out to my office um to assist getting the dome light lit up purple tonight in honor of this holiday so he's on the zoom call so i would allow him to speak sir you have the floor i mean
 Can you guys hear me? Yes, we can. All right. I only can see four of you guys. So this is the first time being on Zoom. So this is about the best I can get it. So I can see four of you. I can see Mitch. I don't know who can see me. That's fine.
 I'd like to thank Mitch and his staff who were joining along and assisting me with Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day, a traditional thing that I've been doing for a while, which the city council is aware of. I appreciate the city council as well joining along and assisting on this historical moment because they're lighting up the dome and they're also lighting up Niagara Falls tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
 So, you know, we're really taking Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day to incredible heights. So I greatly appreciate you guys on that. I also want to make sure I mention, I thank Joseph Glumbach. I forgot to mention him the last time I was there for Recognize and Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day in 2016. So I apologize for that. I went home, I felt really bad. You know, I told you guys I'm suffering from anxiety now, you know.
 But I just want to make sure I get that in there. I'd like to also thank Mark Perlosa for recognizing the proclamation of this year. He's been like you guys, recognizing it for several years now. The same thing with Congressman Brian Higgins and Senator Timothy Kennedy. They've been guys who's been recognizing it for a number of years. And lastly, I would like to do something special here today. Thank you.
 I'm the founder of the day called Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day. And every year I announce a winner of my Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day award. This year's sixth annual winner of my award would be Darius Pridgett. And this is, I don't know who can see or, like I said, I only can see four of you guys, but this is the award right here.
 I just got to figure out a way to get it to you. But this is, you're the winner of my Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Award 2020. Basically, what I do is I look at,
 I sit back each year and just pick somebody randomly who I felt like did something or who had done things in the past made an impact in spreading love and kindness. I remember being in Atlanta, Georgia when I lived there. I either heard it through the newspaper or Googled or I don't know how I found out, but I heard Darius Pridgett was driving a truck of pallets of water to Detroit to help them out with the water crisis. I thought that was totally...
 amazing to do something, you know, on that level. And so he's been doing amazing things in terms of kindness, you know, for years, I attended his church a few times and amazing pastor. So I just felt like this year, he's the winner of my 2020 do something good for your neighbor. Um,
 I don't know if I'm supposed to say something now. I'm really surprised as my computer was going up and down and the audio was going, but I think we've secured it. And I thank you, but you're the real hero out here.
 You're the one with the feet on the ground. You're the one that's recognizing other people. And when you do that, you actually help people to grow. So I know Mitch brought you on and Councilmember Nowakowski has this habit of celebrating good people.
 And today he did that again by celebrating you. And so we unfortunately turn that award back around and say thank you to Council Member Mitch Nowakowski for recognizing good people. And thank you to you for what you do. We're all honored to have you on. Thank you. Thank you.
 Councilmember Nowakowski, anything else? No, that's it. Thank you. All right, that was terrific. And now I can see everybody. We've switched computers and updated and I think we're okay. For a second, it was two of me on and that's kind of my life, wearing a couple hats, but now it's just one of me on. Let me get my notes out and thank you again, Councilmember Nowakowski. Any other presentations?
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate it, man. Okay. Any other presentations, council members? Okay. I think we're okay. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stating meeting held on April 28th, 2020 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Objection.
 Is there objection to not to the filing of the late file? Objection to item 20-591. Okay, is that to the filing of the late file or were you gonna vote in the negative? Objection to the filing of the actual item 20-591. Okay, and at the end of the meeting, we'll announce a special meeting for tomorrow in order to consider that item. So we do have objection to that item. Any other objections to any of the late files? Question. Sure, you have the floor.
 Do we need to state the reasons for the objection at this time, or do we state those reasons for the record for the special meeting concerning that item? You can state at the special meeting once there's an objection, it is not on the floor. Okay. All right. So we will move forward with the entire agenda except for that item. And again, at the end of the meeting, there is already being filed a notice for a special meeting tomorrow at 3.30 p.m.
 Any, I guess we're going right from the top. Item number one, amend annual action plan. Can I see the agenda, please? Motion to send to finance, please. Second by Council Member White. Item number two, amend grassroots gardens, please. Motion to approve items two through five.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. And just so that councilmembers know, when we go to the full agenda like this, I am not able to see every single councilmember. But we're going to. So if you need to be acknowledged, please say your name because I won't be able to see you. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Councilmember Golumbak? Yes.
 You know, could I please have you repeat that my computer went off. I can't, I couldn't hear exactly what the vote is on. I'm sorry. So this is for again being that we're virtually we have to vote anytime any item is approved. So this is for numbers item two through five. Okay, yes. Council member now Kowski Yes. Also, President prejudice. Yes.
 Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six, submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number seven, controller's budget response. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by the President Pro Temp Scanlon.
 Item number eight, change in contract Conway and Emerson Park. Motion to approve items 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20.
 Thank you, Councilmember Golombet. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. On item number 13, I wanted to recuse myself. I'm a parent rep at one of the parcels that they're acquiring or doing the appraisal on. How would we move forward with that? Yeah, so we'd have to separate that one individually. Okay.
 So on the one item that you want to recuse yourself, what was the number again? Number 13, item 13. Moved by Council Member Farrelletto, second by Council Member Golombak to recuse. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon?
 He said yes, I think he's on mute. Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. That's approved. Next item. Item number 21, drug asset forfeiture wire transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Proton. Item number 22, permission to accept 2020 gun involved violence. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fairlady, roll call.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Next item. Item number 23, third quarter gap sheet. Motion to receive and file.
 I'm sorry, did you say item number 24? 23. 23, motion to send finance. I'd like to invite Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 24, approved chicken license as of May 2020. Motion to receive and file items 24, 25, and 26. Second by Councilmember Bolden. Item number 27, opposition to 20-543, preservation ordinance amendment. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember Golombet.
 Item number 28, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file items 28 through 32. Second by Councilmember Galumbe. Item number 33, BFSA request new four-year plan. Motion to send finance. Second by President Pro Temp. Item number 34, support Department of Labor unemployment initiatives. Motion to adopt items 34, 35, and 36.
 35 was one that was objected to for the late file so it'll be 34 and 36. motion to adopt item 34 and 36. second by council member wyatt any other items before us also why it has
 Council member Wyatt has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And this is actually referring to the late file regarding the Buffalo Fiscal Stability Authority and the letter they sent to the mayor regarding to our budget in which they're requesting a new four year submission of a revised financial plan. And the essence of their comments are that they're very concerned about the
 $76 million that the city is depending on for our budget. And they're asking that this plan be reviewed and they come up with a letter of recommendation or written summary of recommendation of what the city is going to do
 And it's unfortunate that during our council, our workshops, that we got any no details on what that's going to look like or what that is. And it's unfortunate because as the council, we should have those details. This should not be something that we find out at the last minute. And the more and more information that we get that this money is not going to happen speaks to the urgency of us knowing and putting a plan in place
 to make sure that our number one goal is to protect the services of the residents of the city of Buffalo. We have a secondary job to make sure that we preserve in the jobs for the employees of the city, but we can't do that without information. I think Mr. Council Member Bowman's resolution asking for more information is something that we've done a number of times, but not gotten the information that we really need to make good decisions
 This is not a political issue. This is not finger pointing. This is about us working as the body of the city of Buffalo, as the legislators, to make some sound decisions, to save as many jobs and make prudent decisions, not just for this year, but the out years, as the Buffalo Fiscal Stability Board says. We can get the $65 million this year, but what do we do next year? What do we do the years after?
 So I'm calling on my colleagues for us to work collaboratively and the administration to make very sound and prudent decisions together, not finger pointing, not name calling, not making points, making objective comments to denigrate someone. But we have to work together as the residents, as the leadership of the city of Buffalo to make good decisions so that as many people as we can save.
 We must save, but to act as if we are living in a bubble and the president of the United States has said over and over again, he is not giving money out to democratic states. He is not gonna give us the money that we need to sustain ourselves. So we have to save ourselves and we have to save as many as possible. And again, this is not a hate on the administration, but I think it's a love for our city and for us to work collaboratively.
 to make certain we make sound decisions with good information. Instead of us going by innuendo or assuming what someone's gonna do, we should know what they're gonna do. And I'm calling on the administration to have that conversation with us. We've had numerous COVID conversations, but nothing about the most urgent issue. And that's our finances as it is right now for the residents in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. All righty. Thank you, sir.
 All right. No other items before us. Announcements from the clerk? Council President, I just wanted to do we have any regular committees that you feel need to have for next week? I think the Finance Committee is asking to meet. Yes. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees committee on finance will be Tuesday, May 19, 2020 at 10 a.m.
 The follow-up meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Thank you to our clerk. I do have an announcement that there will be approximately 6,000 masks provided to each council member district to give out in any way that you decide and see fit.
 That is actually coming from our county executive. And so I did talk to him a few hours ago. My office will be, along with the council staff, will be picking those up, bringing them to City Hall and making sure that they are deposited properly.
 in each of our council offices that we have a key for, or we could keep them, we'll keep them all in ours and give you all a day to pick them up and distribute them out to the city of Buffalo. So I just wanna thank the County Executive for thinking about the city of Buffalo in which he has over and over tried to do what he can, whether it was from testing to getting out the information to working on protocols
 but now we have about to hit the streets, over 50,000 masks from the Common Council to each and every district. All right. Mr. President.
 Councilmember Wingo. Thank you. Listen, I would like to just acknowledge some of the comments, even though, of course, nothing has been filed. The all of us are staying up to date on what's happening around us. And this announcement is just so that the folks watching know.
 that in order for the council members to address any issue during our session, it has to be filed. There has to be something filed on the agenda for us to talk about it. No doubt, though, many of us who have seen certain videos are outraged and upset and angry
 uh... but how however uh... we don't all know the whole story has not come out yet so uh... we appreciate your level of frustration uh... and we appreciate your comments however now is not of the day before us to opine on those things and uh... i am not in any way uh... trying to throw my colleague uh... majority leader david rivera under the post but i would like if you could just announced
 when the next Buffalo Police Advisory Board or the Oversight Committee will be meeting, if there's a meeting coming up, sir, so that the community could potentially know when we'll be talking about this or addressing this as a legislative body. And again, just so the community knows as well, this is the body that fought for police cameras.
 This is the body, that's policy. This is the body that also fought to make sure that police cars did not have automatic assault rifles, all police cars. So we do what we can legislatively and I hope you all can appreciate how we answer your call. So I'm gonna ask if Council Member Majority Rivera can just give the folks the date and time if that has been determined yet of when that committee might meet in the near future.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair, for the time. Thank you very much, Councilmember Winkle. We are in the process of working that through with the . We work around his schedule and his command schedule. We'd like to hold more of these meetings. As a matter of fact, I have suggested that we hold more than two meetings annually.
 That is one of the reasons we put the advisory, the Buffalo Advisory Board together, so they can meet in between meetings to deal with many of the issues and concerns they have in real time.
 But we will be scheduling a meeting. We will post it online so people can see it. It's an open process where people have an opportunity to come in and share their concerns. And we've heard from them with regards to the incident, and that is something we're working through with the Buffalo Police Department right now as we speak.
 And again, thank you, Majority Leader Rivera. And the council does not run from issues. We hear the issues and we do what we can on this side of the government to do what we can to answer the call of the people. So we want just that to be said. And trust me when I say this. And please hear my heart. I don't speak for all the council members, but I speak for myself. We hear you.
 And we will be giving the community an opportunity and a chance to address your concerns. We all have concerns, but none of us have the whole story. So please keep everyone lifted. Please, please keep everyone lifted. Those folks who are out protecting us, protecting us while we're slumbering and sleeping.
 and those of us who are in the hospital saving lives and those who are in the emergency response vehicles running towards danger when the rest of us run from danger. So let's keep everyone lifted. And again, thank you, Council Member Rivera. I do agree we should have more meetings. And again, we will have more meetings. So again, thank you to all of my colleagues and thank you to all of those of you who joined us today. Just to be here at this meeting, we know it's not a very fun meeting to sit through, but you were here and we hear you. Thank you, Mr. Chair, I'm done.
 Thank you. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council Member Wyatt? Thank you, Mr. President. I want to announce that, again, we have a second date for COVID-19 testing at 391 Edison. I want to thank the Greater Hope Faith Baptist Church.
 for their support as well as the community health center of Buffalo. That will be taking place on Friday, which is the 15th from 9 to 4 30. I want everyone who can be tested or want to be tested to come out. They'll be doing COVID testing. If you can call and schedule for an appointment, you can call, but if not, you're not going to turn anyone away. We fought very hard to get this testing site in the 14215.
 And I need everyone who has the heart or want to be tested to come out and test it. It's right across the street from the Kenfield Langfield. Sometimes these folks are left last. Now they're first and I hope they will take full advantage. So again, Friday from 9 to 430 COVID testing in the 14215 and I just want to give special thanks to Council President Pridgen for using the bully pulpit to assist me in getting the
 Quest on board and I want to thank Quest for being involved and taking the lead in making sure that we make sure that people in that district and that 14215 are tested. Thank you. Thank you, Councilmember. You know, we heard from a lot of people who were concerned about testing. We know that this
 will not go down, the numbers will not go down significantly without testing. So we do encourage people, especially in that area, in all areas, to be tested and Quest, once we made that call together, they got right on board and others like Dr. Glick and Dr. Ansari and others. So please be tested if you are watching and you have not been tested. This is important. This is dealing with life or death issues.
 All right. Seeing no other, and I think I can see everybody. Count majority leader motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Mitch Nowakowski. Thank you everybody. Thank you.