5, 4, 3, 2, 1. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Ferraletto. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Council President Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible. I would ask that you please remain standing for today's invocation. I welcome to the floor now Bishop Mark Collier of the Renovation Church. Thank you for being with us today. There we go. Thank you to Council President and all the Council members in your respective places. Let's bow and pray. Our Father and our God, we thank you so much for this day. We thank you for the breath that is in our bodies, Lord God. Father, we thank you for every trial and tribulation that has brought us to this moment, Father. And we pray, Lord God, that these moments, Lord God, will make an impact on this city that will change the world forever. Father, we are praying specifically for every strategy, every mindset, Lord God, that is represented in this room. Every district, every heartbeat, every family, and every pulse, Lord God, that these people represent. Father, we pray for your divine conviction to bring together unity and agreement, Lord God. We pray for a bipartisan spirit, Lord God, that will mimic, Lord God, miracles and manifestations that will be a branch mark for the entire nation, that people will look to Buffalo and see what it looks like to be one nation under God. Father, we thank you for the diversity that is represented here. Father, may these minds and, Lord God, these cultures mixed together, Lord God, and create a harmonious balance, Lord God, that will shift the culture and change lives forever. So we pray that you be with us. You stand in us. We thank you, Lord God, that as these men and women stand on, Lord God, these podiums, Lord God, to represent your people, that you would cover and protect everything that is connected to them. And so we give you all the praise, the glory, and the honor. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you Bishop, thank you for being with us today. Council members in memoriams? Council member Rivera. It is with heavy hearts that we bid farewell to Blanca Gomez. She's a cherished member of our community. She left this world October, excuse me, May the 7th. She was known for her significant contribution to the community through her involvement in the Hispanic Women's League, where they gave out hundreds of scholarships to women, empowering women. She worked at HUD and in the Department of Senior Services for the county. She left an indelible mark and anybody she came in contact with, I pay our deepest condolence to her family and her friends. Council Member Glumbeck. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside and St. Mark's Episcopal Church lost a long time resident, Maxine Gilbert. She was pre-deceased by her husband, Bill. I went to school with her daughter, Sue, at Riverside High School. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. Council Member Ferraletto. Thank you. Tommy Collin who owned several restaurants in the city of Buffalo passed on May 6th. He was a city of Buffalo resident with a huge heart that helped so many different people. And I could talk for hours about different acts of generosity that he did, which I won't do. But he really helped so many people that were down on their luck and would do anything he could. And always supported first responders in addition to many others. Thank you. Yeah, to follow up on that, I've known Tommy for 30 years. He was a friend, my wife's cousin, and my brother's business partner. I knew him as so many different things and it's appropriate because he was so many different things to so many people. He was the most generous person I know, as Council Member Ferraletto mentioned. He would figuratively give you the shirt off his back, but literally, if someone needed to, go home and get clothes from his closet and bring them to him. There wasn't a case he wouldn't get behind and it wasn't for attention, it was just simply because people needed help. He had a unique way of bringing people together when we were growing up, whether you were an athlete or a garage band musician or anything in between. He had this ability to kind of break down those adolescent lines of demarcation that existed that who, if you had different interests, probably wouldn't have brought people together otherwise. My heart breaks for his wonderful parents Libby and Tommy, for his sister Erin, her husband Brian and their boys. His sister Kristen, her husband Pat and their girls. His extended family and literally the countless number of friends he has. Last week I came across a picture of Tommy in my phone in one of his restaurants. And there's about ten people surrounding him in it, and everyone in it is blurry except for him. the picture of him as clear as can be and i thought it was extremely appropriate because everyone in the picture seemed to be orbiting around him and that's kind of how it was wherever he went if he walked into a room you knew it and everyone wanted to be near him and he's going to be sorely missed forever um in addition to that we're obviously meeting on a wednesday instead of a tuesday today so i would ask that we all keep in our thoughts and our prayers um those beautiful ten lives that were lost two years ago yesterday on May 14th, 2022. So for those who've been mentioned today and for any members of the first responder community or military community who've lost their lives in service since we last met, I ask that we please take a moment of silence. We do not have any special presentations today, but I do want to just take one moment to mention that we are all wearing our green ribbons on our lapels today for mental health month and ALS recognition month. So I did just want to draw attention to that. But on a motion by Majority Leader Halton Pope, seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman, the minutes of the stated meeting held on April 30th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of the late tiles. Clerk from the top, please. Mr. President, I'd like to take item number 25 from Community development and the submissions list. Motion to take item 25 out of community development out of order, seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 25, Restore New York, grant application for Statler Hotel and request for public hearing. Motion to open a public hearing. Motion to open public hearing, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. We are joined with the applicant and members of the Office of Strategic Planning. Good afternoon, Lisa Hicks, Director of Development in the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning. So I'm here today with Trevor Griffiths and Paul Milstein from Douglas Development. We're requesting from the Common Council support for an Empire State Development Restore New York application to support the Statler Hotel. Trevor is the lead on the application submission, so I'll turn it over to him to give some details on the project. Thanks Lisa. Hello everyone, my name is Trevor Griffiths, Economic Development Coordinator for the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning. Today we are here to request upon completion of the public hearing that your honorable body authorize the mayor and or a designee to apply for a grant of $3.5 million from Empire State Development Restoring New York Program to assist the redevelopment of Hotel Statler in downtown Buffalo. The project is significant for the city of Buffalo and the entire region as it will create 213 hotel rooms, over 400 apartment units over two phases of development. The hotel has already made significant improvements to the banquet space and plans to offer additional retail, commercial office, and other amenities for hotel guests and residents. The project cost is approximately $155 million. The $3.5 million grant will assist with the restoration of an old vault in the basement level of the hotel, which has caused damage to the structural integrity of the building. Also, the grant will go towards repairs and installation of sidewalk infrastructure and the restoration of parking to accommodate new guests, residents, and users of the event space. At the conclusion of this public hearing, we also request your honorable body to adopt a resolution to support the project. I'd like now to open it up to comments and questions from the public. Thank you. Are there any other speakers? Okay, council members? Council member Wyatt. I have nothing but always positive comments about Douglas Shimon, what they do. I just wish there was a project you could do in the university district. But I did have a couple of questions regarding this project. So we're going to apply for a grant for them to get 3 million to do, what is the money for exactly? Sure, hi, Paul Milstein, Douglas Development Corporation, councilman and ladies. So this particular grant will go towards the restoration of the sidewalks in and around the Statler building. The Statler building is a full city block, so it's very large. Those sidewalks are actually in public space, and there's actually, Occupiable area underneath them, not used for any revenue generating purposes, but that's the way it was built many years ago. Unfortunately, it's so old that there were no under drains built in Delaware Avenue and the streets surrounding. So over the years, the water has constantly infiltrated the foundation walls of the Statler. So all the concrete foundation walls and the sidewalk structure that's actually hollow underneath that you're walking on is in a state of collapse. So we have to do substantial waterproofing to the building itself, but this is really a rebuild of infrastructure around the Statler building that has been put off for many, many, many years and wasn't built right in the 1800s or whenever those roads were actually built with no under drains. So this money will specifically go to rebuilding of those sidewalks, faults, and under drains in and around the Statler building. So what is the total cost? Is it more than just the three million? Yeah, so right now the current budget is $4 million. We'll typically climb because I'm always under budget and behind time, this is the way I roll, but it's 4 million right now on Whatever is additionally needed to complete the project, we'll do. As you certainly know, the project is weather sensitive in Buffalo, so we're trying to get out ahead of it. We were trying to do it when the convention center was doing the sidewalks in front of the convention center and weren't able to get there. So we're trying to get it into the cycle so that we can get it done before winter. So it's about a $4 million project for just the sidewalk restorations and vault repairs. And I wanted to ask, and I'm not going to go off topic right now, but I wanted to ask something else. Because someone, I was just at On Seneca today for breakfast, and someone was asking me about the cars on Main Street. And I know you all had took a $17 million, let the city keep $17 million for that work. But I wasn't sure, are the cars back on Main Street right now? I mean, I wasn't sure. Not all the way, there's been some sections of cars on Main Street have been completed. There's others to still get done. And what we did was, we didn't take ownership of the cars on Main Street project as much as we actually asked if we could actually fix it and do it. But they said no. But for understandable reasons. So what we did is we forgave 485A, which we were entitled to for the Seneca 1 Tower, and decided to pay the full tax assessments. And then that was about $15 or $17 million of tax. expense to us, and then the city was able to leverage that with matching grants and other federal programs. But I think they were able to grow that up to about $72 million of money that was going to the accelerator funder with exactly what you call it for infrastructure improvements in and around the downtown area. There was a geographic region, and I know Cars on Main was one of the specific projects. It was hope to get things moving, and there were other projects as well. I don't know exactly how they've progressed. At this point, but that was the intent of that program. And I know it's not my district, but it's a city asset and it's dollars, so I'm just inquiring. So maybe we can get somebody to explain that. Because someone did, I mean, I'm like, I thought it was cars on Main Street. I thought that was done. But I guess there's a different type, I guess they have to move the tracks out and those type of things to expand it. But just wanted to get an update on that when we get a chance. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. I am lucky enough for the Statler to be in my district now. So I'm looking forward to adopting this grant. And I replaced a historian, so I won't go too far down a tangent. But when the gentleman talks about the width of the sidewalks, that goes back to show you the sheer density that the city had one time in front of the Statler. That it needed to have those sidewalks so big to accommodate people that were utilizing not only the Statler, but downtown Buffalo and transportation around it. And the Statler, I'm going to make kind of a bolder statement. It's a generational thing when we talk to Buffalonians about the word downtown. You could talk about downtown to certain sample set of folks, and they think of just office workers, the wealthy, and condos. But when you go to cities around the world, urban cores and downtowns are socioeconomically diverse. They're dense. They have cultural attractions. People live in apartments and have a variety of ways that they live. And that ultimately leads to a successful city where you generate sales tax and revenue and provide more living accommodations that don't rely just on home ownership. So I am really thrilled that the city will be applying for this grant and hope that we're awarded the dollars to help jumpstart this project in downtown Buffalo because its density and its success will ultimately lead to an element of success for the city. So I'm happy to see that this is... before us and really hope that we are able to be granted this money from the municipality. Thank you, Mr. President. No other speakers? Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Motion to sign without rec. Motion to sign without rec. A motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Thank you. Item number one, amends sale 329 Germania. Motion to approve items one and two. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number three, permission to insert into contract for Harrison Studio. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Gulenbeck. Item number four, planning board findings for April 22nd, 2024 meeting. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number five, report is so portion of 245 Rother. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number six, transfer of eight properties to Benlick. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. item number seven transfer of 12 properties to benley motion to send a finance seconded by councilmember wyatt Item number eight, transfer of 12 properties to Benland. Motion to approve items eight and nine. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 10, data visualization analysts. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Tempelman. Item number 11, Comptroller's budget response for 2024-2025. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Item number 12, notification serial. Motion to receive and file items 12 and 13. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 14, amendment to change order number 2, social and park fill house. Motion to approve items 14 through and including 21. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 22, notice of appointment, forestry technician. Motion to send items 22 through and including 25 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 26, UBMD contract extension. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Corporation Council, item number 27, James Barclay, 55,000. Motion to send items 27 through and including 45 to claims. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Permits and inspections, item number 46, Fullster license, 3038 Bailey. Motion to send items 46 and 47 to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Bulman. Item number 48, Fullster license, 245 Ontario. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Item number 49, food store license 1983 South Park. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 50, food store license 431 Tonawanda. Motion to approve items 50 and 51. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 52, garbage collector license. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 53, mobile food truck. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 54, ARPS subrecipient agreement for Say Yes. Motion to send items 54 through and including 58 to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Farrellito. Human Resources, item number 59, Be Well Healthcare Medicine Contract Extension. Motion to send items 59 and 60 to finance. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 61, SOAR BSA 2024-2025 budget. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Gullenback. City Clerk, item number 62, co-mingling event application for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 63, liquor license notices. Motion to receive and file items 63 and 64. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 65, notices of appointment for labor two. Motion to send 65 and 66 to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 67, appoint Chief of Staff to come in council. Motion to adopt item 67 through 69. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Miscellaneous, item number 70, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board. Motion to receive and file items 70 through 72. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 75, conditions at Cleve Hill Plaza. I'm sorry, what item? 73. 73. Item number 73, secret negative declarations 12, 16, 18, 22, 24, Goodyear. Motion to adopt items 73 and 74. Seconded by Council Member. Noakowski. Item number 75, conditions at Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion to send to Community Development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 76, letter requesting cyber security report. Seconded, sorry. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Petitions item number 77, special use 3167 Bailey. Motion to send item 77 through and including 83 to legislation and the city planning board. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Submission with civil service, item number 1, COA for city auditor. Motion to receive and file items 1 through 11. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Finance, item number 12, funding agreement renewal to City of Buffalo and Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center. Motion is to approve items 12, 13, and 14. Seconded by President Pro Tempoman. Item number 15, establishment of legal and financial advisory services. Motion is to receive and file items 15 through and including 22. Seconded by Council Member Kulambak. Community development, item number 23, planning board findings for April 9, 2024. Motion. Thank you. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 24, report a sale portion of 416 suite. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 26, resolution request for ceasefire in Gaza. Motion to receive and file items 26 through and including 30. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Legislation item number 31, Fuster, license 1981 Fillmore. Motion to approve items 31 through 35. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 36, ordinance of amendment chapter 414, special events. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 37, special use 199 Potomac for not owner occupied. This item was sent without recommendation. It's in the Niagara District, so we'll defer to the Niagara District Councilmembers desires. Motion is to approve, seconded by Majority Leader, Halton Pope. Item number 38, special use 183, Hodge. A motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Resolutions, item number 84, resolution to support Evergreen's application to the Restore New York. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 85, fee waiver for Bob Ivory Memorial Run. Motion to approve items 85 through 89. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 90, support City of Buffalo application for New York State Empire State Development. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 91 has been withdrawn. Item number 92, Commissioner Deese. Mr. Chair, thank you very much. Council Member Rivera. Just for clarification for those that are watching us that have been paying close attention to this resolution. At our caucus meeting on the 13th, we had a number of concerns raised by various council members. And we went back and looked at the video with regards to their concerns. And we're going to redraw it, withdraw it. And so people know the reason why we're withdrawing is because we're going to file another resolution with language that council members could possibly support. Thank you very much. Next item. Item number 92, Commissioner Beetz. Motion to adopt items 92 and 93. Seconded by Councilmember Golombac, majority leader. Yes, if we could revisit items 54 and 55 under administration finance policy and rescind the previous motion. Motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Councilmember Golombac. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Announcement of committee meetings. Public hearing for the budget will be today, Wednesday, May 15, 2024 at 5 PM in council chambers. Regular committees, committee on civil service will be Tuesday, May 21, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, May 21, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, May 21, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on Community Development will be Tuesday, May 21st, 2024 at 2 PM. Committee on Claims will be Wednesday, May 22nd, 2024 at 1 PM. Council members, announcements for your districts. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Gombach.