Councilmember Fontana? Present. Councilmember Franzen? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Council President Pridgen? Here. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wise? Here. Quorum present? Item 1, call for special session. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 2, discharge community to whole. Ordinance Amendment Chapter 277. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 3, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 277, mortgage and default property registry. Motion is descended to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 4, discharge community to whole. Mayor's budget recommendations 2019-2020. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 5, budget amendments. Motion to approve the amendments. Second by Councilmember Montana, last floor. I have an additional amendment also that I would like to read into the record as well as provide to the city clerk in writing. It's a memorandum of understanding between the City of Buffalo Common Council and the Buffalo Police Department and the administration. It's unsigned, but I'd like to have this as part of the record. The agreement terms are as follows. The administration agrees to staff fully the police garage with qualified employees to maintain Buffalo Police Patrol vehicles. That all Buffalo Police Patrol vehicles be put on a strict 3,000 to 4,000 mile oil change and maintenance program. And that the city look at the purchasing of new vehicles that any new Ford explorers here within this budget be purchased shall not include a turbocharged engine. and that the administration shall research the use of Ford's new 2020 hybrid Ford Explorer PPV. This vehicle claims to increase miles per gallon. They also claim that it will save the city $3,000 to $4,000 per vehicle in fuel costs each year. So with those amendments, Mr. President, I'd like to have that included in this year's city budget. And let the record state or show that it is an unsigned memorandum of understanding. All right. um second by council member for 10 next item um i mean that's it i'll make the motion is there a second you read it into the record as the second yes it was already a second thank you very much appreciate it mr president next item are we approving budget amendments yep did we do number six number six is budget as amended motion to approve the budget as amended motion to approve budget that is amended as is before you second by uh president pro temp scatlin Before we, was that the last item? So I want to thank all of my colleagues for another, approving another conservative budget, but ensuring that your districts were taken care of. One of the things that I'm most excited about is about the uh public works coordinator of infrastructure repair uh because we do hear a lot about imperfections in our streets and a lot of times and it was explained very well from dpw of how some imperfection in the streets are not from the freeze and thaw it's from utilities going in um and then never repairing the streets and our citizens have to deal with it So I think that everything that is in this budget is important, we never have enough to do every single thing but I think that at the end of the day, we did not cut fire, we did not cut police, we did not cut vital services. We did not cut our great sanitation department and taxes are going down residential and slightly up for commercial. And that came from working together right into this moment. And so what may seem at times chaotic is a part of the process. As Councilmember Franczak always reminds us, we are an independent arm of the government and we have a job to do. And this council has to do it. has not been a rubber stamp, is not a rubber stamp, and did what it had to do to ensure the integrity of this process. So thank you, gentlemen, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to thank the leadership and the administration for working on this budget. There were some amendments to the budget that reflect the wishes of the council members and their constituents. There were other instances where we couldn't include... things that we would like to in the operating budget. However, we have agreed that they be looked at in the capital budget. They be included. No, they be put into the capital budget. That's right. Thank you very much. That they be put into the capital budget. So I want to thank the administration for their commitment to doing that. As you mentioned, this budget does not increase taxes, user fees, and and other types of licenses that we have done in the past. And at the same time, it does not cut services or personnel. So it is a good budget. It's a conservative budget. And I just want to thank all of the parties involved in that. Thank you. Councilmember Franzen? Yeah, just thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say for the record, because, you know, we were kind of 11th hour. You know, I was voting no, then I was voting yes, and I was voting no, then I was voting yes. And that's, you know, part of the negotiation. And so then we, I'm happy to see, I wanted to, the Buffalo News had a big editorial saying that now is the east side's turn. Now I represent more than the east side, the waterfront, west side, all of them. The Eastside has always been very close to my heart. I live there, and it needs a tremendous amount of attention. So you love all your children, but there's one that's got a special place in your heart. So one of the projects that I think is very important and I wanted to get some planning money was the King Urban Life Center. which has had charter schools there. It has not-for-profits. It's taken a building that was on the cusp of demolition and restored it and put a beautiful presence and useful services to a community that needs it just south of Martin Luther King Park. And so, you know, I agreed that we should put our emphasis on the roof work that has to be done, the stonework the fenestration in the windows and the mayor stated We were there the council members. I thank my colleagues for the support that this will he will put it in as a capital budget project I appreciate that We'll set up a meeting with him and you know some principles there and so I I think that government's about compromise and so hopefully we can move forward on that. Thank you, Mr. Councilman. Councilman Fontana. And as they say on the radio, the beat goes on. This is a budget. It's part of the spending concerns that we have, but we still do have a concern. I think most of the members will agree that we're not buying enough police cars in this budget. So the administration's talking about some potential changes to the way we purchase or maybe lease a vehicle, but the fact remains we're still heavily dependent on A third of the fleet is dependent on an out-of-date vehicle, the Crown Victoria. Another third is dependent on a vehicle that has a 65% failure rate. So I'm concerned, and I just want to bring this point forward, and I'm going to bring it forward in most every meeting we talk about the police department. We need to purchase more police cars down the road. So this might have to be looked at, again, in two weeks, in three weeks, in four months, but it has to be looked at again in the future. This budget, we are going to buy 15, so we are helping. They're all marked, which is good, but I think it's definitely something we need, and we owe it to the police department to tell them that we are going to have to work on this well into the future to make sure that our department's fully functional with safe and operational police cars that hopefully in the future will be more efficient. Absolutely. All right. Anything else? Motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Golombak. Thanks. Sure. Thank you.