And we're live. Countdown. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Buhlmann. Present. Councilmember Ferraglietto. Councilmember Golombak. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Present. Councilmember Kite. Present. Councilmember Kite.
 Thank you. Let's stand for a pledge. Thank you. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President. I know that the loss of any life is tragic, but my heart has just gone out to the family of Sanaya Dennis and the tragic loss of her life
 you know, that it wasn't just a local news story, but actually made national headlines as well for an incredibly grieving family, certainly, you know, friends and associates. I appreciated that each station that ran it ran with it. Telephone numbers for those who are struggling with suicidal tendencies to be able to report. And I know that, you know,
 The workload for those agencies has just been monumentally exponentially increased in this past year. I know families that have been affected losing kids during this time, and it's overwhelming when we bury the next generation.
 council president and at true Bethel, you've had way too much experience at that and way too many, uh, whose lives have been snuffed out far too young. And I think our whole city grieves and, um,
 My heart has been troubled. I've talked and prayed with others about families that are experiencing such great loss, and I would like to lead us within all of our council districts for the families who have lost, and now for those that have an ongoing struggle that life went out in the midst of all the craziness that we've all experienced so often in our city in the last year. Would you bow with me in prayer? Thank you.
 Lord, I pray even now recognizing that this one that was lost is only an example of so many that are under huge amounts of stress and they're being stretched. Families that have lost loved ones, especially the next generation of our young ones.
 for the family of Sania Dennis and all those like her that have struggled and some that have lost and families that are in ongoing grief for that tragedy. Lord, we lift them up to you today and I pray you, God of all comfort, the only one that can comfort into the deep hurt and pain and recesses.
 of parents' lives, families' lives, friends' lives in the loss. Lord, right now, I lift them up to you. And Lord, in addition, we lift up every young person that is struggling right now with hopelessness and fear and are overwhelmed.
 by the pain around them and the pain inside them. We ask, Father, that you'd come into them. Lord, help the wise voices, the righteous voices around them to be able to resonate and let life triumph over death, let life win over death. Lord, I pray recognizing that at any age, somebody who loses their life, and we've lost far too many in this last year, is a great tragedy. So we lift those families to you as well.
 And Lord, as Ezekiel who looked over a valley of dry, disconnected bones, we pray even now, Lord, he prophesied life. And Lord, we prophesy life. Thank you for the next generation and for the powerful anointing they carry. Lord, anything today that the consulate is doing that influences and affects and impacts the next generation, I pray for extra wisdom for them today. And thank you, Father, even now that we can call
 out your life on the next generation of those in Buffalo in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. So appropriate. Council Members, Memorials, Council Member Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock community lost Diane C. Urbanski, that was a grandmother of my friend, Jane Marie. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, and the extended Black Rock community. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? Council Member Bowman?
 Thank you, Council President, the Lovejoy District. We lost Edward Cannon. He was a member of our Bailey Brinkman Block Club and he was always there faithfully fighting for his community and he'll be sorely missed.
 And I just also wanted to take a moment to thank everybody, my colleagues, the mayor, deputy mayor, constituents, block club leaders, all for, you know, coming and reaching out to me in my father's passing. It meant a great deal to me. And, you know, having the community behind me is such an honor and a great privilege.
 pleasure. So thank you to everyone who has reached out. It's been so many people. It's hard to keep track, but my family and I found comfort in that in this difficult time. So thank you all. Thank you. And again, sorry for your loss. Anyone else? Council Member Noah Kowski.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I would like to put in the name of Patty Jones, who was an advocate for equality and especially for LGBTQ youth. She was a resident of Amherst, but was really a regional asset to us. And she was somebody that really was that person that people could count on. And I just want to put her name in the memoriam. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Council Member Scanlon. President Proctor.
 Thank you, Council President. I'd like to ask that the council keep in its thoughts and prayers the family of Mr. John Martin, who passed away suddenly a week or so ago. He's a long, long time resident of South Buffalo. He and his family are engaged and involved in a lot of things throughout the community. And he's going to be sorely missed by his three daughters, his wife, and numerous grandchildren and friends. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. President? Council Member Wingluck.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask that we keep in our thoughts and prayers Mother Carrie Lee Porter, who went on to glory last week. She was a long-term member of the Antioch Baptist Church, as well as a member of the Mastin District. She lived over in Florida. She was a community leader. One thing about her is that folks would say they always knew she was on the porch, so they wouldn't even look
 when they rolled past her house, they would just wave. So we're going to miss her waving back, but she'll be waving back in spirit. So we want to keep the family of Carrie O. Porter in our prayer. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing none other, we always remember people who have given their life for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of others as we pause in this chamber for a moment of silence.
 Thank you very much. Today we have a special presentation from President Pro Temp Scanlon. Thank you very much, Council President. You know, once in a while I begin to think that the City of Good Neighbors moniker is sometimes thrown around a little too often when describing the City of Buffalo or its residents, but then you hear a story that reminds you exactly why that is the case. It's because it's true.
 We have with us today Buffalo Police officers Andrea Anderson and Ashanti McClain, two officers who operate out of the C District, who have been residents for seven and eight, who have been officers for seven and eight years, respectively. And based on what I've heard from some of their colleagues in C District, this story is indicative of a day in the life of these two incredible people.
 Recently when visiting with a neighbor in their district, officers McLean and Anderson learned that the resident had fallen on some really hard times. She was dealing with the death of recently, the sudden death of a loved one. She was personally dealing with a very serious illness and she was struggling to keep up with her bills as a result of the pandemic.
 And when they approached her to see how she was doing, they found out even more. In addition to the personal issues that she was dealing with, they discovered that she also no longer had a working stove or hot water tank in her home. And this is when they sprung into action and embodied the City of the Good Neighbors moniker. Officer Anderson purchased the stove and the hot water tank, and Officer McLean installed them in the woman's home.
 This is why we are called the city of good neighbors, quite frankly, because we have people like this officers like this will go above and beyond the call of duty. They go above and beyond to help neighbors. And in the words of this resident who they assisted probably saved her life. So I think it's not only appropriate, but it's important that during National Police Week.
 We recognize these two tremendous Buffalonians, these two tremendous officers. We have a proclamation that will be going around to all the council members for their signature for the officers. But I would just like to read the very bottom of it for them. Now, therefore, as we look to highlight stories of those who work tirelessly, making immeasurable sacrifices to faithfully serve our communities, we do not need to look any further than Ashanti McClain and Andrea Anderson.
 It is a great honor and privilege to recognize Buffalo police officers McLean and Anderson for their efforts in delivering acts of kindness, compassion, and generosity to the citizens of the city of Buffalo.
 We applaud and thank you because we know that because of your sacrifices, the people in our city are stronger, safer, and more resilient. So again, I just wanted to thank these two incredible officers for everything they're doing on a day in and day out basis. But in addition to that, going above and beyond to helping a resident, helping a neighbor who is in need. Thank you. And either of you would like to say anything, you have the floor. Start with Officer Anderson. No? No.
 I was trying to unmute myself. Let's see. Miss Donna is a really nice lady. Very appreciative. Super humble. I had no idea that she was the star she was from that story. But I just knew I couldn't live without a soul.
 I couldn't live without a hot water tank. And sometimes if we could just put ourselves in someone else's shoes, we can, it's easy to jump into action. It meant nothing to me to go ahead and purchase that stove because if I couldn't find a stove, I was just going to give her the one out of my house. I could take out. But her monthly income, I don't even know how she survives. And so I was humbled that she allowed us to help her
 Because sometimes people, their pride won't let people help them. But she was super humble and she's ever appreciative. I just talked to her two days ago. I do constantly check in with her. She keeps thanking us to this day. And it's like Archie said.
 We always do it. We never know when the next help is going to, where the need is going to come from. I mean, you know the common need that's out there, but you never know when you're going to be called on to just
 just at the spur of the moment you know it's like the lord tells you this child needs help and i'm calling you to go help them so with that being said that's it was true this is what we do you know but that's it thank you for having me and thank you for that proclamation it's beautiful and sweet and next time i do an event for the community and i send you all invites i expect to see you all
 Is the installer available? Does he want to? We get you off of mute and then there we go. Yeah, so when Officer Anderson brought this project to my attention and explained to me what happened with Ms. Donna, I was definitely willing and all in as usual. It was a great privilege and honor to put it in for Ms. Donna. She was greatly appreciative. And, you know,
 We do things like this, not for recognition, just because this is the people we are. And, you know, there's less fortunate people out there that need more things than, you know, we do. And if we can help them, we try. And this is a prime example. So like my partner said, thank you for the acknowledgement. Thank you for the proclamation. We appreciate it. And we're probably going to have more stories in the future to continue what we do. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council President. I'm sorry, Council Member Winkle. Oh, thank you, Council President. Can I just say this? I know I jumped on a little bit late, but I did catch what Council Member Scanlon was saying earlier about these two officers. And just for the record, I didn't know who he was talking about. And I'm thinking to myself, well, this is just so nice. This is just so nice. Who are these people? And then when Officer Anderson popped on the screen, I said, oh, that's him.
 that doesn't surprise me at all because they are some of the nicest officers that I have ever met and not to anyone uh any on uh no other off any other officers uh you know detriment but I am not surprised when I hear about you know um how these two officers have interacted and interfaced with the community but with all that said you know I wish we could have more officers not that they're iron but if we could just acknowledge more officers uh in this way the way they do this work thank you Mr. President
 Do you? Council Member Scanlon, last words? No, I just, one of the other things I wanted to mention was how incredible it is that, and we talk about this, within the council, these two officers, they operate out of C District, but they don't just work out of there, they live there.
 they live in this community. So it's something that they want to take care of. They want to continue to improve as we improve the entire city of Buffalo. So I think it means even more to the people of that area that they live in that community as well. Amen. Yeah, and I did know that their chief is on. I didn't know if he wanted to say anything as well. Chief, you have brief remarks? I guess not. I got- Oh, he went to the other camera. I thought he ran out of the room.
 You know what happened? I got kicked off the video. Pastor, I'm so proud of these guys. I am. And this is what I preach at the district. And these two, this is what they do. They do this often. I think they're a little pissed off that I got them out here giving my spotlight, but I don't care. I love these guys. I love. This is what they're all about.
 And just like a lot of other officers, they do this on their own free will. They come out of their pocket and they don't even ask for anything or any recognition. And we appreciate you guys so much for honoring us. We really do. Thank you so much, Pastor. You're welcome. Council Member Scanlon? Sorry, Council President. Just one last thing. It's easy to see if you know Chief Bright.
 why officers in that district operate the way they do and go above and beyond the way they do with leadership like that. He's really, truly an incredible leader within the department. And regardless of whether it's the police department or any other industry, we have more people like that we're going to be better off in general.
 I totally agree with you and I have watched him go up the ranks and he always remains the same in whatever pressure he is under. So it's a great team. Councilmember Nowakowski? Thank you, Mr. Chair. These officers and the chief are too are going to be too bashful, but I'll say it for them. This is just what they do. This is just one instance that we're highlighting. This is stuff that that they do all the time and I can't be happier to see the recognition
 that they're getting and I have all their cell phone numbers. So if anything happens in the Fillmore District, I can personally call these folks and they go in and they get it done every day. And I just want to commend them. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. On behalf of the council, thank you. And thank you, President Pro Temp for acknowledging them and allowing us to speak.
 Alrighty, thank you. I know you all need to go out and buy more refrigerators and stuff so we won't keep you, but you are very much appreciated as many of your colleagues and those who do a good job for our community are. Thank you. Alrighty.
 On a motion by Mr. Greer, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on April 27th, 2021. I approve. Council members, you have the late file before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us, not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review an item that may have just arrived. Majority Leader, are we going from the top?
 from the top. Thank you. All righty, from the top. Item number 1, 107 Alabama Designated Developer Agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lytle? Yes. Councilmember Galenbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt?
 Item number two, disposition of real property, 30 Bud Mill Drive. Mr. Majority Leader, we do have to take an item out of order and discharge item out of resolutions, 52. Mr. Chair, motion to take item 52 out of order. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item 52, discharge item 21-478 from Ledge. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough.
 Item number two disposition of real property 30 Bud Mill Drive. Motion to send the CD items two three and four. Second by Councilmember Fairlawn. Item number five report of sale 480 Dodge. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six, reported sale 87 French. This item is open. This is in the Mastin District. Is Council Member Wingo still connected?
 Let's send this to committee then, so we know what it was. Motion to send to committee. Second by council member Golombet. Item number seven, report of sale 14 and 18, Koontz. Motion to approve. Second by council member Nowakowski. Do we know what item number eight is before we, so we don't have to come back? We might have to send that one to committee if the council member's not on. Alrighty, let's have the roll call on seven. Council member Buhlmann.
 Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Glombeck? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 8, report of sale 535 Northland. It's been taken ready. Committee second by President Potemkin.
 Item number nine, report of sale 344, Paderewski. Motion to approve items 9-12. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferreira. Yes. Council Member Glumbach. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 13, appoint seasonal laborer 2. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Bowman. Item 14, follow-up record storage facility lease audit. Motion to send to finance. Second by council member White. Item 15, change order BFD interior improvements. Motion to approve items 15 through 20.
 Second by Councilmember Golombak. Can we do 21 also? 21 as well. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Mr. Prichard.
 Councilmember White. Mr. President, I just was asking because I know we just passed finance and we talked earlier in caucus about the auditor, the controller's letter for the budget and just wanted to know if chief of staff got any response or anything. Mr. President, we have not received anything yet from the comptroller's office. We anticipate filing them towards a special session when you vote on the budget. Do we have anything from the control board?
 No, we've received nothing from the control board. Okay, then let's do this. I'm sorry, I'm getting a little feedback. Let's do this the opposite way. Instead of waiting, I think we need to reach out because on some of the past budgets, we haven't received it. And to receive it on the day that we are making a decision, I think it's too late.
 their opinion is important and to wait until that day and hope that we get it, especially from the control board, it has to come to us. They are mandated to send us a report. That report should be being filed much before we come to the meeting to vote on this budget. It's a part of the consideration.
 So let's send them a notice today by email, followed up by a formal letter to request their response. Mr. President, I've just gotten a message from the deputy comptroller to say that the comptroller's report will be in within a half hour. That's how we do it. And let's do then. We don't have to send the comptroller report. And I thought that the comptroller said that they were going to have theirs filed on time. So I'm glad to hear that. But we definitely need to hear from the control board. All right. Was there anything else, Council Member White?
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next slide. Item 22, appoint battalion chief. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member, Fira Leno. Item 23, Tyson Joseph, 1500. Motion to approve. Second by President Protos. Item 20. Let me, I want to recuse myself from that item because I know that individual police.
 Move to recuse by the majority leader. Thank you. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 24, dance hall 7, I'm sorry, we have to do the roll call for item 23. Okay. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Glanbeck? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Recuse. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes.
 Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 24, Dance Hall 719 Bailey Ave is withdrawn. Motion to withdraw. Second by Councilmember Fairlove. Item 25, Dance Hall 1669 aka 1673 Hurdle. Motion to send the legislation items 25 through 28. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item 29, mobile food truck to Maslow's Catering. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White. Item 30, tire handler 668 William. That one was an approval. We had to do a roll call. It appears that Councilmember Buengo may be having some connectivity issues because I've seen them, so you don't have to call them in the roll until it comes back. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrellano? Yes. Councilmember Glambach? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 30, Tire Handler 668 William. This item is in Mastin. Can we go back to that one? Is the council member still trying to get on?
 I don't see him buffering in so just send everything at this point that is not marked for master and send it to committee motion. Mr. 31 and 32 to committee. Mr. Majority Leader, I have a note from Excuse me, second by Council Member Wyatt. What do you have Chief Estella? A note from Mr. Wingo on the current items.
 21-629 to be approved with conditions. We'll come back. I'm not going to now go back. We'll go back at the end like we normally do. Next item. Item 33, used car dealer 668 William. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Noah Kouski. Item 34, appoint building inspector. Motion to send the civil service. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item 35 approval of extension to the BR National Parking on contract. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Galambeck. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. Yes. Councilmember Galambeck. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 36, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 36 through 49. Through 40? 40, I'm sorry. Not a problem. Second by Council Member Galambe. Item 41, responses to defund the police form memo. This item is open. That could go to the committee of the whole if you want to, because that's just was the responses for the budget.
 Motion is sent to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Bolden. Item 42, Medi Letter in Opposition to Impound Law at 1 Babcock. Motion is sent to CD. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 43, Special Use Permit 244 Allen. Motion is sent to Legislation City Planning Board, Items 43 through 49. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Civil Service, Item Number 1, Appoint Press Information Officer.
 Majority Leader, if you can call those, as Council Member Wingo is now. Motion to receive and file items 1 through 4. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Finance. Item number 5, Contract Extension University Emergency Medical Services. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Riviere. Council Member Buhlmann. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Gielenbach. Yes.
 Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six single source provider request parking on. Motion that this item is open and is assembled without recommendation. Mr. Chief of Staff we were supposed to get information from I believe the commissioner regarding this item.
 I don't have any updates on the item, sir. Okay. We can recommit it. Motion to recommit? Yes. The motion is to recommit, second by Councilmember . Community Development, item number 7, report at sale 249 Newberg. This is Lovejoy District. Mr. Bollman, did you have a recommendation? Yes. Can we mark that for approval, Mr. Chair? Thank you. Okay. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Bollman. Councilmember Bollman? Yes.
 Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 8, NFTA bus stop concerns at 61 Lakeview. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council member Wyatt.
 Legislation item number nine board of ed resolution on school safe zones. Motion to receive and file items nine through twelve. Second by council member Bolden. Item 13 zoning map amendment for Marilla, Hopkins, Buffalo, Railroad South, Tift, Nugdack. I believe this is in South District council member Scanlon on items 13 and 14 is recommit. Motion is to recommit items 13 and 14. Second by president pro temp Scanlon.
 Item 15, special use permit 2381 Fillmore. Motion is to approve items 15, 16 without rec, is that approved? Niagara District. Yes, you can approve it. Motion to approve 15, 16. Councilmember Scanlon, 17. 637 TIF for storage. Approve, please. Sorry. Motion to approve 15, 16, 17. 18. Eight and 18. Yes.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Fragiletto? Yes. Councilmember Vandenberg? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 19, 2020 food store license renewals. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item 20, special use permit 144 Cottage Street. Mr. Chair? Yes, sir. Council Member Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is an approve with conditions that I sent to the clerk, but I will read into the record for Corporation Council's request. But the first one is owner instituted quiet hours. Second is guests are required to take care of trash and recycling.
 The 3rd is number of guests limited to 5 bedroom count number 4 is guests or owners must keep sidewalks and utility fire hydrants clear during winter time. Number 5 is 1 year annual review sunset clause. If permit does not need to be reviewed, it shall be renewed annually.
 And the last but not least, number six is if there is a significant event or call of 211, 911 or Fillmore District Council Office, this special use permit shall be allowed to be revisited or revoked. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. That's the motion with conditions. Councilmember Dillacoste. Councilmember Buhlmann. Yes. Thank you.
 Council Member Ferreira? Yes. Council Member Golanbek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Claims, Item 21, Bruno Elio 5000. Mr. Chair, I would like to make a motion to approve Items 21 and including 57. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Mr. Chairman, 57 has an updated marking. That was already approved actually. It was earlier, so it's just double. So still approved. Seven would be a receive and file. Okay. Do you want me to make a motion to receive and file item number 57? You can just go to 56 and then we'll come back to 57. Okay. Motion is to approve items 21 and including 56. Second stands. Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 57, Tyson Joseph 3800. Motion is to receive a file. By Council Member Bowman.
 Resolutions item 50, set public hearing for disposition of real property, Bureau 30, Bud Mill Drive. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Bolton. Item 51, Ordinance Amendment, Article 20, budgeting. This is a late file. The motion is to motion to adopt. Remainder, would you like to send it to finance? It would probably be a good thing. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 52, discharge item 21. Councilmember Wyatt has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to thank my colleagues for their efforts on this piece.
 Council member Bowman did a yeoman job on putting together working with our corporation council he and Council member Nowakowski really put a lot of effort in myself and Council member Revere kind of worked with and met with the mayor on these pieces so I hope that we came to an agreement and understanding and I hope that by the committee that we can approve it. I think it was probably one of the first times that we really kind of worked closely together
 I'm hopeful that this will work because this is what all of the regulators have said that we needed to do to get us, put us back on solid footing as far as our finances. We got to start somewhere. We know that we don't have a lot of money in the bank, but we do know how we have some opportunities. So again, thank my colleagues for their efforts on this good piece of legislation.
 Right. And I'd like to thank you all for leading this effort and that do understand that the meeting with the administration, particularly with the mayor went well in bringing this forward. So it does look out for future generations, not just ours, ensuring that we leave better than when we came.
 All right. Council Member Bobo? Yeah, thank you Mr. President and I just want to thank all my colleagues as well and just explain a little bit. This is a newer item of the fund balance because substituting on the item had changed between the conversations between the council and the administration, but I want to thank everybody for participating.
 The only question I have for law is this. Should we send this item directly instead of adopting? I just want to clarify and make sure we make the right decision.
 move on this one. Is Karen here? Yes, I'm here. You want to know if you should send it to legislation? Yeah, directly or should we be adopting it? I think we should send it to ledge unless there's something else that I know of. I don't think there's anything else out there. So yeah, we've made some substantial changes from the last one, you know, up until this morning. So I think it should go through the normal route, but you know. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 Motion is then to send to ledge. I think Mr. Chair, if you recognize, I think we should send it to finance. I think last time we sent it to legend, we moved to finance. I think it should be moved to the finance committee. If there's any objection from the finance chair. Well, we usually send these legislations to ledge, you know, because it's legislative in nature. It's amending the charter. So yes, it does deal with, you know, the financial fiscal issues.
 you know, bloodline of the city, but it's, you know, still legislation. So, yeah, I think we should, we have to follow that normal route. That way people don't get confused at where we'll send an item. So the motion is in the ledge that I already give you a second, second by council member Bowman. Item 53, local law to amend article 31 flood damage prevention. This item is open. It's a late file.
 Motion is to send the legislation. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 54, common council request for judicial decision on Buffalo charter Article 3-19. Motion to adopt the resolves or remainder to legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 55, Paul Merrill. I'm sorry, Councilmember Wyatt, that's four. Can you please add me to this? I think it's very important. Please add Councilmember Wyatt to this resolution.
 All right. Next item. Item 55, home rule message. This item is a late file. The item is open. These are both of the next two will be adoption. This one is to continue the pilot program of the parking permit for residents in the Fruit Belt and the other four cellar bonds and notes. Motion for that. Items 55 and 56. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item 57, recommended police policy reforms and community engagement. Motion to adopt the resolves and the remainder to legislation, both items 57 and 58. Second by council member Nowakowski. On item 58, the in-room, I just wanted to make clear what I'm asking for. Normally, our auction is in October.
 is in October based on what we normally do. However, I just feel like in a pandemic, when so many people have suffered financially to have the auction in October may be devastating to a lot of homeowners. A home is probably one of the biggest investments the average American will make
 When we see that there are so many landlords who were not receiving rent, who some of their tenants would not go and get the assistance, they could not evict them because of the moratoriums on evictions. And I know that it takes years for a house to come up.
 for auction. However, and I'm looking into this now, and I know this council has adjusted several things about the auction, for $200 worth of VAT bills over an extended period of time, someone could lose their home.
 someone could lose their land. And I just feel we need more time. And what we have been told is if we have the auction later that they still, we still would be okay with our budget in moving this auction later. I just think that moving it now or doing it now would be insensitive to the pandemic that we are and the economic hardship that we're in.
 that many people are suffering. And for those who are not suffering from it, sometimes we forget. And sometimes people forget that there are those who depend on those rent payments, uh, in order to make their payments and say, well, Hey, they had two years or they had three years. Yeah. But maybe they could have caught up this year. And there are many of them. And I've talked to landlords who could not catch up because they had tenants there. And some of them, uh,
 unfortunately it wasn't because they couldn't pay it was just some of them they refused to go and get the assistance because they knew that they could just leave when this when the moratorium is over and that it would be very difficult and shame on those uh on those tenants who could have gotten assistance wouldn't go get it and didn't pay their landlord um and so that is what this resolution is asking for come uh council members cameron then council member why
 Thank you, Council President. I just want to thank you for leading the charge on this. I think it obviously we all know how incredibly important an asset is someone's home, someone's land is. So the last thing we want to do is be taking it from them when we don't have to be.
 We want to get them headed down the right path, get them on steady ground, owning their home. Again, it's probably for most people, their largest asset. One thing that I did bring up in budget earlier in the week, and you actually touched on it as well. The one thing I just wanted to ensure is that we pick a date where the returns from the proceeds from the sale do come in and do not impact the current budget year. So that's the only thing I ask moving forward. We just pick a date that we have enough time before we reconcile the end of this upcoming budget year that those proceeds come in.
 But thank you again for leading the charge on that. Thank you. And I totally agree with President Protip that the date is very, very important so that we are able to meet our budget. Councilmember White?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your efforts on this. Again, I think I learned a lesson from the schools on cameras is that we have to look at how do we legislate. Buffalo is one of the third poorest cities in America, and we continue to do things that in some cases may not be beneficial for people who are struggling. So this is a piece of legislation I think is smart.
 I think it takes into consideration the struggles of folks. And I think in the future we need to continue to do that. So I commend you on this and would like to also be added as a sponsor. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. I do. And I don't want to take a lot of credit for this. I can't. It was community led folks like PPG and others who came and said that. And once they said it, it was apparent that this should occur. So we again, listening to our community partners and making wise decisions. So thank you all. Right. Next item.
 Item 59, research for feasibility of introducing electric vehicles to city fleets. Motion to adopt the result. Remainder to CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Mr. Chair.
 oh i'm sorry i can't see you on my screen yes sir uh councilmember noah costa thanks i just wanted to just highlight that the energy policy of the council um are adopted a few weeks ago also will give us um that information in the policy so i think it'll be extremely promising to have that data to be able to move forward with but this is a great resolution thank you mr chair
 Absolutely. And it's good. I mean, we're all on the same page on this electric vehicle. Councilman Bowman, Golombek, myself working on this end of it. But it's so important because we've got to start building the infrastructure. Can't wait until the last minute. And it's a way to save our planet and really cost wise it.
 It really comes out at times better because of all of the lack of maintenance that you have don't that you that you, you don't have to do anymore, the maintenance that you don't have to do anymore. So this is important. So thank you. Item 60 waiver of fees for eat at the park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Farrell-Adolph? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 61, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 61 and 62. Second by Council Member Glumbach. Item 63, Salary Ordinance Strategic Planning. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member Kishida. Second by Council Member K
 Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Waldman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Gielenbach. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 64, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479, Speed Regulations. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Fairlove. Item 65, Request Mayor to Fund Traffic Coming Measures Citywide. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember White. We have some items to be revisited from Councilmember Rugo, Senator Chief of Staff, a note.
 Yes, sir. We have, if we could, revisit items number 3 and 31. Motion to revisit items 3 and 31. Revisit item number 3. Item number 3. Item number 3 should be sent to Ledge for a public hearing. Motion to change the previous motion. Now the motion is to send the legislation. Both second by Council Member White. What was the other numbers? 31. 31.
 This item is to be approved with conditions. Motion now is to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Bowman. Any other items in front of us? Council President. Council Member Burskamp. Can we revisit item number 57? Motion to revisit item 57. Second by Council Member Scanlon. The item is in front of us.
 Thank you, Council President. I think this resolution has some very good components to it. I'm not categorically against it. I think we always need to be improving, whether that's the Buffalo Police Department or any other department within the city of Buffalo. And I think the Attorney General has some very valid points in her communication to the city. However, I do have some questions about some of the components of the resolution. We're currently dealing with an incredibly complex
 alarming spike in crime in the city of Buffalo. Shootings and murders are skyrocketed. Cars are being stolen almost nonstop. In fact, I recently just saw a story about a man who was dragged down the street by his car last night on Elmwood as it was being stolen from him.
 There's legislation that has been passed at all levels of government, in my opinion, that are impacting the ability for officers to adequately and effectively perform their jobs. I have some questions about some of the operational components of the resolution. For example, I think it's very difficult to tell a police officer that they absolutely have to give a verbal warning prior to using certain levels of force, not knowing what the circumstances are they are involved in.
 I have questions about a civilian review board, how it would operate, who would be put on it, how they would be put on it, the associated costs when it's clear that we need all the funding we can get our hands on to combat crime currently.
 In addition to that, we currently have the Commission on Citizens' Rights, our Police Oversight Committee, our Police Advisory Board, the District Attorney's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the U.S. Attorney, all who review issues regarding police issues. So I'm curious, again, I have questions about why we would need another one. And we also, we continue to have a conversation about...
 improve policing and civilian review. So in other words, how to address police issues after the fact. I think what we need to be doing is putting a much larger emphasis
 and many more resources into things on the front end, such as the hiring process. We need to be researching and investing in who's conducting the written exam, the psychological exam, and all other components of hiring to ensure that we have the appropriate staff, people staffing the department. So for these reasons and some others, I'd like to be recorded in the negative on that resolution, please.
 Please record Council President Pro Tem Scanlon negative. And right now, Mr. President. Council Member Golombet. Just so that those who may be watching understand what this resolution that I filed is, is really verbatim of what the Attorney General recommended. And also it is only a recommendation. At the end of the day, when the
 The Attorney General of the State of New York says these are things that I think that should be included, especially when it's the Attorney General's office who ends up getting involved in some of these cases. Police, especially police officer, is involved in a shooting of an unarmed citizen.
 I think it's important to send those recommendations to the committee that has already been put together so that they can vet them out, they can talk about them.
 I think that not to put forward, and I want to be clear, I didn't receive a copy of the Attorney General's letter to request it. And once we did receive it, I think that it is very important when we're talking about hearing from everyone, hearing from the public, hearing from our law enforcement community, hearing from the legal community, to at least advance these recommendations. Thank you.
 So this resolution in no way codifies or puts it in stone. It simply is a set of recommendations that was sent from the state attorney general's office. You know, I think that for me, what I want to keep in mind is the lives of those who have been lost. I want to keep in mind the year of
 protests that we heard, which I feel were justifiable protests. And I want to keep in mind that the reason that this is is filed is so that there will, for instance, one of the things that the Attorney General talks about is public meetings with the public. And I've said this earlier, we can either invite the public to and hear them or whoever the committee is,
 or else the public will push themselves through to be heard. And so we record Council Member Scanlon, Council Member Golombek in the negative. Council Member Fairlotto, you have the floor. Thank you. I just wanted to add, this resolution encompasses a lot of different
 topics and potential policies. I'm voting, I will be voting in favor of it, but just wanted to mention that some of the things that were suggested as some of my colleagues say, the devil is in the details. So ultimately the resolution is asking the administration to draft items or policies, which we would eventually vote on. So I don't,
 I will vote in favor of something that's asking for something to be drafted. But as you said, this isn't, we're not voting on any laws or policy. We're asking it to be researched. So that's why I'm voting in favor of it, but obviously would like to see what comes out. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Revere. Thank you very much.
 Mr. Chair, and I agree with Mr. Farrell. I think that we have to explore many of the things that are up there. The Attorney General mentioned a number of things, and some of them I'm not certain are that she's even certain about because there's some pending litigation with regards to the Citizens Review Board as a result of the contracts, because the contracts
 show that the discipline part of it is negotiated between the administration and the police department union. And certainly there's some legal issues here that we have to get by. The second thing I'd like to know is what model are we referring to? I mean, there's just so many models out there when it comes to review boards, and I don't know which one we're referring to.
 So with regards to legal questions and which model we're referring to, I think we need to explore those things. I'm going to vote in favor, but certainly I want to look at those details before I can feel comfortable in supporting you.
 something that's what even the Attorney General is recommending because what applies in New York City may not apply here in the city of Buffalo. So I want to look at the model. I'll be paying close attention to the details. I'm not against it. I just want to know what the details are because
 There's some laws, state laws, there's some legal opinions that are still out there impending with regards to some of the things that she's even saying we should do, which I find it kind of strange because there is a case pending in Rochester with regards to that. It's in the appeals division. So even some of the things that she said we can do are still in court. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Absolutely. Council Member White?
 President, I thank you for putting this forward. And I appreciate my colleagues' openness to this because I think that, you know, I think that we looked at the fund balance policy and Council Member Farrelletto made some great recommendations. And I think that once we get a document together, there are some other things that we can tweak and make it where we're comfortable because there's no one size fits all. But we know that this is an opportunity.
 to do something good. And not to say again, this is not against police, it's just how do we reform in a way that the public is asked for? It's gotta be a balanced way. We can't go to one extreme versus another, but I think this is a good first step. I know I talked to our assistant corporation counsel and she's working on the civilian review board and she's gotten a lot of information from other areas. So hopefully in a couple of weeks, we'll have that document in front of us and we can look at it
 and refine it and make it where it's ours, knowing that some of the things are still in legislation. And I think that once we hear from the federal government, as far as their reforms, and with the governor, we'll be right in lockstep with what they're trying to propose. I mean, no one's trying to do anything draconian, but I think we've heard loud and clear from the public and I think it's our responsibility to respond.
 in a responsible way and hearing from them and putting something in place that makes sense. Buffalo is the second largest city in the state of New York and we don't have a review board. Every other city, Albany, Rochester, Syracuse, New York City has one. There's still some components that we have to wait on the judicial system to tweak, but I think it's a good first step and I agree with my colleagues. Let's get something where you can see the details and make certain that it's something that you could live with, thank you.
 And we've already voted on this. So just for the record, Council Member Golombek and Council Member Scanlon want to be recorded in negative. I don't believe we have to have a total vote all over again. We'll mark that for the record. All right. Clerk, any, I mean, announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash B-F-L-O-C-C.
 Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, May 18th at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, May 18th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, May 18th at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Education, Tuesday, May 18th at 11 o'clock a.m. And public comments for the Mayor's recommended budget can be submitted until Friday, May 14th.
 by email to councilstaff at buffalonny.gov or by phone 716-851-5105. All righty. Council members, any announcements? Hearing no announcements, Majority Leader, motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, seconded by President Pro Temp Scantling. We are adjourned.