Council Member Franzen. Here. Council Member Golombek. Council President Pridgen. At key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Forum present. The stamp of the flag. The flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain is here, however, yeah, we can do the chaplain part and keep moving the same way. Court, this mic, please. Thank you. Today is a significant day at the council. It's especially appreciative to the president of Maine to make the chamber, having had knee refoundings for a steps on him, We found the same thing, and we've seen people before that it has been a significant obstacle for. And it's well-pleasing when we open things. Access, interesting enough that in Luke 14, as Jesus was saying to his disciples, he said, go out quickly to the streets and alleys of the town, bring in poor and crippled, blind and lame, Everybody was to have access in the way that the Son of God came to earth. Well, we need to, as much as possible, make institutions of mantle and motif. And I believe today is significant as we do that. I approached the Consul President and said, there's nobody better to open and to bless this new chapter in the Consul Chambers than a group of Debs and mine, and yours, sir, and me in the house, Pastor William Ellison from Mount Olive Baptist Church. He is a remarkable man, pastor of Milo Baptist for 38 years. Started in a little pink building over on Delavan and now has the significant footprint in the shadow of ECMC, or I should say, ECMC sits in the shadow of my friend. I've watched and worked with him now for several years. His integrity, his sense of call. His sense of making Buffalo and every community and every citizen better is questioned by those who know and love him as I do. So I'm bringing him today to be the one to bless, dedicate, and set into motion the new elevator for handicapped access for the council. Sir? Give me a favor, please. Thank you so very, very, very much. Thank you, Dr. Walton. We need to get in your doctorate letter. Yes, sir. I am certainly again grateful to be on this floor. Last time I was on this floor, I do believe it was to swear in our council president now, and that's been a day or two ago. Many of you who have known so many years and had the great opportunity of working along with you I remember when Councilman Franczak's first office, all you could get in there was a desk and a chair. I think it's a little bigger now, that's good. But I do want to say this, is that my reason for being here, I find myself quite honored because of what this time represents, not only for yours truly, but for others who have been, in a sense of speaking, restricted from being on this floor to bring forth their issues and their causes. I can remember not too long ago sitting up here with an issue that was dear to my heart while others spoke on my behalf because I couldn't get to this floor. You don't understand what this elevator means. until you're in the place where I am. You don't know what you've done here today. I certainly want to take this opportunity to thank the Council President who has certainly driven this whole thing so that others may be blessed for generations. You've opened up this Council floor to generations yet to come who are handicapped for whatever reason, and wanting to be a part of government and could not be and had to look from afar while others pleaded their case. I want to say to this council, because I know the council president has to have the cooperation of all of you. So I want to, on behalf of so many, many others, thank you for what you've done. You really just don't know. I did not know until five years ago when I lost the ability to walk. I did not understand, but now I do. And because I do, I want to say we appreciate so very, very much what you have done, and just, and there's so many other things that need to be done for the disabled and those who are handicapped in our community. And I do believe that this community should not rest until all of our citizens have the ability to have accommodation to all of our buildings in the city of Buffalo. With that being said, just bow your heads for a moment. Father, we thank you for this great opportunity this day and what this day represents. We thank you for the council. We thank you for the council president, its leadership. We thank you for those who have worked so diligently to engineer this, kind of elevator in order that others now may participate in the matters of government and beyond. We give your name now, praise, as we go forth. We dedicate this elevator to the many men, women, boys and girls who will use these facilities. now in a way that has never been possible before. It's in your name we pray, in the precious name of Jesus the Christ. Amen and amen. God bless you all. Thank you. And we will do memorials, and then right after memorials, we will go right to the ribbon cutting so we get everybody in position. Memorials, Council Members? Council Member Fontana? Quoting a poem by Pamela Martin, A life cut short in an instant, one lost love of family, one lost friend of many in the neighborhoods. This family member and friend was Tyler Wieckowski. Tyler was only 17 years old. But this past weekend, Tyler, along with some friends, were involved in a terrible car accident, ended in fire and tragedy. Tyler was the only one not to escape. While others are hurt, recovering, we mourn the loss of Tyler. Tyler was a student at South Park High School. i saw tyler grow up in the neighborhood always a well-mannered young man worked at the lovejoy pizzeria to make a few extra dollars for himself and the entire lovejoy sloan community as well as all his friends at south park high school will greatly miss tyler for the rest of their lives this is the type of stuff that happens in high school that you just always dread You'll always remember. I lost a friend in high school. I still remember that. Similar situation. So this summertime, when young people are driving around in their cars, maybe for the first time, leave the alcohol home, eyes on the road, and whenever you have a passenger in that car, it's up to you to get them there safe. Unfortunately, Tyler didn't, and we will miss him for a long time to come. Thank you, Councilmember. Councilmember Scanlon? Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we all please keep in mind the family and the life of Mr. Tom Hennigan, who passed away last week. He's the father of City Court Judge Shannon Hennigan and the husband of Mary Hennigan, the Executive Director of the Buffalo Irish Center in South Buffalo. Their family has contributed a great deal to the community of Buffalo, and I would ask that we just keep the family in our thoughts and prayers. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. And of course, we always remember, I don't know if we had any, we had no known deaths, but those who have fought for our country now and for other countries in the pursuit of freedom. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. thank you we'll move this way i don't know how how many i want and and dr dillinson was totally correct um this was something when i was first elected uh to these chambers i was concerned but it took all of us to make this happen every colleague and the votes for the money which was i'm told just over 600 000 for this to happen happened unanimously uh by this sitting council uh When I first got here and knew that people had to sit up there, we call it in the bird's nest, to address the city, it was very important for me to make, ensure that they were able to come to the floor. And of course, there were people who were very concerned about tearing up or changing the appearance of this chamber. And what is occurring today is that we are embracing our present and our future without disrespecting our past. And so a lot of work went into this. I want to thank the former Comptroller, Mark Schroeder, because he actually had to sign off on giving up a portion of his office in order for this to happen. I remember him calling around. He was like, I've got to have the communities that utilize this most to sign off on it. And some of them are here in the form of Kevin from People's Inc., who is here, and Todd from Western New York Independent Living, of course, Pastor Gillison, who you've met. And can the staff, if any of the staff who worked on this, we'd like to bring you down to the floor. We are thankful for Rashaun from right here in City Hall, who I was, when I knew I couldn't bring down a wheelchair ramp or something on these steps, I found a way in the back. There's a little hidden area, but that didn't work. And Rashaun and his team, and here comes some folks from his team, They really, really went to work to say, how can we make this happen? And what I thought would be, you know, a couple hundred thousand ended up being almost 600,000, but it is a good 600,000 if that number is correct. I think it was much under that, but. It was worth every dime for this moment right here, for this moment right here, because I think it represents more than just those who are differently abled, but it also represents this council and our belief in diversity and opening up doors that have been closed. We have everybody from City Hall staff, from we have any of the architects or engineers here who worked on it. I want everybody to give, yeah, come on down. Yes, let's give them all a hand. amazing and then of course all of the council members have got to come over so come on over council members because we couldn't have done this and with our clerk who is soon to be retiring uh jerry who's been here for how many years 38 38 years uh so everybody come on . All right. We're all set for you. I thank the Council President for his indulgence. For the record, my name is Todd, T-O-D-D. My last name is Varwerk, but he is in Victor, A-A-R-W-E-R-K. I am the Chief Policy Officer at Western New York Independent Living, and I have been advocating for the needs of people with disabilities for approximately 25 years. Today is the first day I can face you as an equal on the floor of this chamber. Prior to today, I would be testifying from that corner up there where that nice lady is sitting. And they would bring me a cordless microphone and re-aim the cameras, and you could barely see me up there. Right? The reason I wanted to make a quick remark is that this actually is the first goal Western New York Independent Living set in the community to resolve accessibility issues for people with disabilities. That was back in 1981. This has been recommended by the then Mayor's Advisory Council for People with Disabilities five times. And in 2019, I'm happy to say that we finally got it done. So on behalf of people with disabilities in the City of Buffalo, I thank the Council, the Council President, and the City for their diligent work in both making the chambers accessible and making sure that the historic preservation items of this valuable chamber are protected. Thank you. Good stuff. Really, really good. All right. We have a special presentation by Councilmember Wingo. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we come here to acknowledge the work in the community of Dolly Michelle Randall as the President and CEO of her organization called the Compliance and Administration Services of New York. It is unparalleled, and I don't think anyone in the city can do it like Dolly does it. And today we just want to recognize... work that you've done in the community, the folks who have helped get into compliance, all of the business owners, all of the entrepreneurs that you have encouraged and inspired with your work, with your diligence. I do have a story to tell, but because of time, I'm not going to tell that story. But everyone, just please know that this is the gym of the city of Buffalo. This is the gym in western New York. And the state of New York is lucky to have her working on behalf of everyone in this great state of New York and the city of Buffalo. Thank you so much. This was very unexpected. Sorry about doing some of my work that I do. This is very exciting to be here and to be recognized. Rated 10 years of PASNY, which is Compliance and Administrative Services of New York. And I started it on my own with PASNY, and I love to help people start businesses and let them know the business will look great. Thank you. Now you have some people with you, right? You by yourself? Oh, okay. All right. We got pictures and stuff right for you, and we'll tag you and all that kind of stuff. All right. All right. Thank you. And we have a special presentation by Council Member Franczak. All right. Sometimes the – You can come down closer. You don't have to stay up there in the – And we'll just switch our order here. Let everybody come on down. That presentation is for everybody. Do we sometimes need a haven in a heartless world? We certainly do. Life can be sometimes very difficult. But we're wearing these purple ribbons this afternoon thanks to the efforts of this fine gentleman, Star Valentino. Because we do need a lift. world on many, many occasions. And what Star has done for many years is he started a national program. It's as simple as this. Do something positive. Do something good for your neighbor. Now, I first met Star when he was known as Dragon Dan Norton. And he and his mother lived on Waltz Avenue. And we had a lighted schoolhouse program for the children. And what he did was he put on martial arts programs and demonstrations for the young kids. And those kids were very, very enthralled. So since then, Starr had moved on to Atlanta, Georgia. He got involved in the show business industry. And you saw that can be pretty cruel and tough too. But he never forgot his neighborhood roots. He's here with his sister today, and I think this is just a wonderful campaign that we should promote and recognize on the Common Council and throughout this whole country, as it has happened in many, many cities. And so, Star, congratulations. Today the Common Council recognized your effort for two-something good things. I'd like to thank everybody for being here today. It's been pretty tough for me being here because I'm actually suffering from anxiety. My sister, so it's been kind of tough, but I've been making it. Today, we recognize and do something good for your neighbor day. For those who don't know, today, do something good for your neighbor day as they recognize National Day on May 16th in over 1,000 cities all across the country. Canada also recognizes this day 20 cities in Canada. So it's on international. City Council here, along with David Fransick, has been behind this day many, many years. I think that they continue recognizing this day. I'd also like to thank... Governor Andrew Cuomo for recognizing this day this year. Congressman Brian Higgins for recognizing this day this year. Timothy Kennedy for recognizing this day this year. I can run down a list of a lot of the city and state officials right here in New York. And all of the county executives. That is amazing. even County Executive Mark Colost, an executive proclamation on behalf of this day this year. So the new initiative for going for next year, keep this thing going, which is the neighborly love that I've been trying to promote and trying to get the news media really more involved in this, Next year we're going to get this at the Pinaltop and we're going to do an annual event every single year like Juneteenth, the Taste of Buffalo, so that we can fly this bread, this neighborly love, all through western New York and hopefully all over the world. For you. And our second presentation, I would like to ask Dr. Andriy Trokinchuk and his lovely wife Olena. They're from Ukraine. And Dr. Andri is from the beautiful city of Lviv. And we're here with Yuri Pershtyshkin. And Yuri and I were international election inspectors in Ukraine, and also in the lovely city of the professor's wife. Just an absolutely beautiful city. Everybody should visit Ukraine. It is a really strong democracy, and they need all the help they can get to keep democracy thriving in that country. So, but Dr. Tarkintchuk was not only interactive with the Ukrainian-American community here in Buffalo, New York, he didn't have to be because he could have stayed, you know, with classes and with his research at the University of Buffalo where he was assigned. But no, in addition to his very important scientific work, he was very, very involved in the Buffalo community. With that in mind, that we recognize the support of Buffalo and also his efforts to help the Buffalo community strengthen our ethnic neighborhood here in Buffalo, but also to keep Fox strong, three nations, and two friends. So, Doctor, thank you very, very much. Thank you very much, everybody. who are involved in this section. It is a big pleasure for me, a big pleasure and honor to stay here and tell for you a few words about what I'm doing here in Buffalo. I came to Buffalo on the grounds of U.S. Department of State as a full-time researcher and stayed at the University of Buffalo for six years. six months, so we were working on some research project with Professor David from the chemical engineering department. But besides of that, I had a chance to work with local community in Buffalo, mainly with to strengthen the friendship between Ukrainian and American people. So I appreciate very much that you visited during this time, you visited Ukraine as an international observer, and this occasion today I think will charge me to work even harder on the level of... level of the government for countries, but on the level of the communities to friendship between all people and I think all together we will proceed and we will help especially for Ukraine with strengthening democracy in my country. Thank you very much and I hope that everything will be good in In my content, thank you sir. All to all who have been recognized and we'll start a meeting on motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon. The minutes of the stated meeting held on April 30th, 2019 are approved. You have late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? there are no objections we'll hear the entire agenda as is placed before us and we will begin as i announced at the beginning of this meeting uh with executive session um the exec this executive session is necessary to discuss legal actions surrounding the moves of detective shifts a move by council member wyatt second by council member fontana um We are now going to move into executive session. We will not empty out the chambers. We will gather in a separate room. It should not take but a few minutes. We're in executive session. Again, for the record, and thank you for your indulgence, this is an executive session necessary to discuss legal actions surrounding the move of detective ships. All right. Are we taking anything out of order? From the top. Item 1, 201 Ellicott Street, SCQR. Motion to receive and file item 1 and 2. Second by Council Member 311. Item 3, Broadway Market Lease. Motion to approve items 3 through 5. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 6, Report of Sales 68, East Utica. Motion to send to CD item 67. Thank you. second by council member Wyatt I made report a sale portion of 856 Seneca motion to approve items a through 10 second by council member Fontana item 11 Hispanic heritage Council motion to send the CD item 11 and 12 second by council member Wingo item 13 except restore I have funds for ESD motion to approve items 13 and 14 say my counselor Wingo I'm 15 cash flow report March 2019 motion to send finance like council members Wyatt item 16 certificate necessity transfer funds motion to send motions receive and file saying by president pro team scanner item 17 controller's budget response motion sent committee of the whole second by council member wingo councilman franzak has a floor yes thank you mr president i know this item for the controller is going to the committee on the whole i just wanted to make a a few comments on it let me just preamble it by saying that um you know over the many years The city has gone through very difficult budgets, but we've always risen to the occasion of making sure the budget serves the constituents. So we've never been intimidated by difficult budgets. We've had budgets where people had to be laid off, taxes had to be raised, live bodies hitting the brick, state funding radically cut. This is not the case here. But per charter, the Comptroller is supposed to put together a budget message in tandem with the annual budget that's submitted by the Mayor. And I read this document very carefully and I It's a very serious document. It's not a whitewash of what we're facing. One of my fears was with the Comptroller process is we would get a situation where a Comptroller could theoretically mirror what the administration is saying. This is not the case at all in this document. So I commend the Comptroller for having something that talks about there are positive things. It has to be a document that's thoroughly objective. It has to say what is is. And she raises some clarion calls and raises flags on certain issues. On just a few things here. Risky to rely on revenues that appear uncertain. You know, talking about revenues that are inflated. The danger which I raised in the budget hearings about using rainy day funds because the fund balance has been reduced to nothing. potential shortfalls in the ring there's a lot of important information here that is based on the uh the facts themselves i mean facts are interpreted but nevertheless uh 21 million in questionable revenue she talks about casino in fact we budgeted for the casino yet new york state itself did not budget we did they didn't and she says that now god willing we are going to get that But until we do, and she said here the process is unknown, what the federal process is with this. It could be waiting for Godot. Tomorrow it could be a much longer period of time. We hope it's tomorrow. The sale of city-owned real estate she talks about. We've received only $4 million in revenue, yet they're booking a much higher number than that, 6.9. Just some highlights here. They want to change the NREM process. That's... gifts and donations depending on if comes parking meters labor driven of course is always expenses she she cautions about we're not booking it we're not budgeting enough for overtime which is a serious issue none of these items should cripple us but nevertheless they are the things that that need to be said uh her feeling is that the fire firefighter contract were under budgeted three three to five million dollars in overtime costs. So, you know, these are issues that we're gonna certainly have to address in the course of this budget being done. This is just like unreal. $107 million in revenues were used up. It says here, $107 million in reserves have been depleted in the past eight years. with 10 to 27 million depending on the receipt of 17 million casino funds needed for the current fiscal year, which would make the budget gap to be closed 120 to 135 million. I mean, that's just wiped out. And the fear here is with the depletion of the fund balance is that we've gone from positive outlook to stable, and it says here the stable could be a precursor to a downgrade in the rating agencies, meaning when you borrow, you pay more. So, it appears that she has done her, Ms. Williams, Miller-Williams has done her job here, accurately. And, you know, you wouldn't know if it was her or Schroeder that put this document out. So, you know, you take any politics out of this, because you can't put the politics in this document. But it's something that should not paralyze us in any way. We are here to serve the public with what funds and what resources we have. We will do that. Absolutely. There's no doubt about it. But, on the other hand, we don't want to steer this city into a situation that's going to dig us deeper and deeper in a hole that will cripple us from more effectively, zealously representing the taxpayer and the people who represent this community. Thank you. Councilman Brantley. All right, councilman Fonsi what was the motion? Number seven item number seven CD okay, I think if we could ask staff to check this out we've already sold this piece of property to the Sirago family at 73 and However, maybe the sale didn't go through we're not notified of those things So can we check to see if the sale did go through this to the sir? Agua family at 73 long-necker because we approved that about six months ago on this floor of the council And now it's coming up again now to the neighbor. I'm wondering why it's been sold twice Can't sell land twice. All right, why don't you sell it next time? 18-year fund loan, Mulroy Park Motion to approve items 18 through 20. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 21, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 22, accept donation. Motion to approve items 22 through 28. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 29, present. EAMF provisional to permanent motion to send civil service items 29 to 31 second by president food so item 32 permission except chips funds motion to approve items 32 and 33 say my cousin Winkle item 34 report a bid Streetlight Project motion to approve So my customer winged item 35 appoint laborer to motion since civil service item 35 and 36 I'm 37 food store license 1547 Broadway motion to approve second my customer friends item 38 food store license 778 Genesee motion send legislation item the 38 39 Second by Council Member Ponsena. Item 40, food store license 331 Vermont. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 41, secondhand dealer 1799 South Park. Motion to send the legislation item 41 and 42. Second by President Prozano. Item 43, auction scrap of vehicles. Motion to approve items 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Frillin. Item 45, BSA meeting minutes. Motion to receive and file items 45 through 50. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. ITEM 51, NOTICE OF APARTMENT, COUNCIL, INTERN. MOTION TO ADAPT. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. ITEM 52, NOTICE OF APARTMENT, SEASONAL FLAT. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER WING. ITEM 53, NOTICE OF APARTMENT, TEMPORARY OR PROVISIONAL PERMANENT. MOTION TO SEND TO CIVIL SERVICE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER WHITE. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, ITEM 54, SEQR, NEGATIVE DECLARATION, 2525, DELAWARE. MOTION TO ADAPT ITEM And my customer what? Item 57, vehicles over five tons on Cambria Street. Motion to send to CD and DPW. That's good. And my customer, front-runner. Item 58... Transparency at West New York OTV. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wynwood. Petitions, item 59, Special Use 220, Lexington. Motion to send legislation to City Planning Board, items 59 through 61. Second by Council Member Freeland. Committee, Civil Service, item 1, appoint HUD grant program manager. Motion to approve items number 1, 2, and 3 and 4. Second by Majority Leader. Finance Committee, item 5, Citizen Salary Review Commission report and recommendations. Well done. I'll go to the Joy Leader for a vote. There might be a change and I'm not crazy to the change so there is well we're putting forth an amendment yet an amendment to accept the Commission's report with a change of the Board of Education to 15,000. I put it as a motion. Yes. Motion is to accept and approve the citizens review recommendations with the change and amendment that school board representatives get $15,000 second by councilmember what is ready of the motion motion and second the motion no objections but it's just me that's I remember council oh come on I'm sorry I'd like to speak about that item I made the comments last week in regards to the the payment or the compensation for school board members. It's despicable that they were only getting $5,000 for the work that they do, as important as it is to our community and to our children, the work that they're involved in. Even the disproportionate number of schools that they have to represent in comparison to other municipalities and other school districts is ridiculous. We only have a handful of board members in our district for all of the schools that we have is disproportionate in comparison to other districts. It's a shame that they only get $5,000. I propose $25,000. Clearly, we did not vote $25,000, but I am not going to stand in the way of the Board members getting a raise period more than $10,000. So where I would still like for them to receive 25. I am also For the record in favor of them receiving 15,000 with just three times what they're receiving currently But just again for the record the work that the school board members are engaged in is again, I have to agree with my council president and that it is some of the most important work and that we can engage in, being that we're investing in our future, on our youth. And then also the fact that these board members are doing this because they love the work, they're making sacrifices to do the work as our council president was a school board member. And again, sometimes it comes down to affordability. We need to make sure that all of these positions that we have, we make it possible for the folks who would like to represent their community, who have great ideas, to actually afford to sit at the table to make those recommendations and to actually have a voice. Now, again, we have so many schools, but a disproportionate number of representatives. To represent all those schools, to only give them $15,000, I think, is still an underpayment. But it is much better than the $5,000 that they were receiving. So, again, congratulations to the school board members for the raise. But just for the record, I would have preferred that they get a lot more than $15,000. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. um corporation counselors are doing something we may have to revisit this item uh but we'll continue with the agenda i'm going to vote on 25 000. no what's that yes he does next item community development committee item six approve lda buffalo federation neighborhood centers oh see can somebody call for cd oh i'm sorry uh motion to approve You wanna prove six seven six and seven six and seven saying my cousin from front end Legislation Committee item eight use card dealer 1492 East Alvin There are no objections motion to receive and file items eight and nine second by councilman for a lot item 10 special use 2525 Delaware motion to approve second by councilmember fear a little item 11 1911 Seneca motion to recommit second by councilman Wingo item 12 special use 534 Elmwood motion to approve with conditions second by the majority leader item 13 special use 471 Elmwood motion to approve second by majority leader item 14 zoning map amendment motion is to approve second by president probe Tim item 15 special use 3171 mean a motion to approve with conditions that will be read by the district council member All right, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And Councilmember, you didn't ring in again, did you? I just didn't ring you out. All right, Councilmember Wyatt has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I had a number of community meetings regarding this particular item, and I think the gist of it was that people were concerned that it would affect the restaurant next door with individuals who are being this establishment smoking that is not allowed in this we won't allow conditions of smoking for this particular item so we're gonna I'm just going to read this I'm off the approval our unified development ordinance allows for the permitted use of a tobacco hookah vaping establishment in certain areas as a right and other areas with a special use permit section 11 3.3 e of the UDL provides six standards by which any to judge the applicant for such permit based on the following. The application for special use permit for tasty clouds has been approved with those conditions. So there will be a one year sunset on this, no vaping on the premises inside or out, no loitering, signage inside the shop to indicate no loitering or vaping, shop only used as retail. It was approved by the planning board and it also must close by midnight every day. That's it. All right. So I wrote down the word you said one year sunset. Is that a look back or sunset? Sunset for us and come back to us. OK, so in the year they would come back. Yes. OK. I just want to clarify. Yes. Sometimes say sunset. It means it goes away. So I want to make sure. So it's a look back. Look back. Look back. Sunset. One year. Look back. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 16, the local landmark, 75 School Street. No objections. Motion to approve items 16, 17, and 18. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 19, Airbnb response. Motion to receive and file items 19 and 20. Second by Council Member Wingo. Resolutions. Item 62, support for A4950 school bus photo violation monitoring systems. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Furlough. Item 63, transfer funds, strategic planning, parks and fleet maintenance. Motion to approve item 63 through 65. Second by Council Member Fontana. 63 through 66, I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 67, move school board elections to June. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Stanley. Item 68, weigh fees for Legacy 19. boy scott service event motion to approve second by councilman freedom item 69 illegal dumping in the city of buffalo motion to adapt uh second by council member fontana item 70 ordinance member chapter 216 motion to send the legislation to my councilman wingo item 71 hispanic heritage quarter banners motion to approve say my consequence item 72 flora buffalo seq r part two and three motion to adapt second by councilman Item 73, floor of Buffalo supporting documents. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fiala. Item 74, Ordinance Member Chapter 242, Housing Standards. Motion to approve items 74 through 78. Second by President Pro Tempore. Item 79, Resolution supporting universal rent stabilization. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Tempore. Yeah, we could just revisit item 74. Revisit item 74. Revisit item 74. Thank you. This ordinance has been a few years in the making. This started a few years back. I believe it was 2015 or 2016. Council Member Fontana and I filed a resolution requesting that New York State allow us to amend the real property tax law to attach housing court fines to... tax the tax rolls of houses who have not paid those fines I know that all every one of these districts has been impacted by absentee landlords and thankfully now with this ordinance amendment we will be able to attach any unpaid housing fines that are greater than five percent of the assessed value of the home to that tax roll, and if it's not paid, ultimately after the proper cycle, be able to foreclose on that house and sell it at the city auction and get it in the hands of a responsible owner. I want to thank Council Member Fontana for all of his help and the assistance of his staff when we first started this because they were instrumental in this as well. So I want to thank them and thank our representatives at the state level who, after a few sessions of it not getting passed, finally passed it, and now we're able to enact this in the city of Buffalo. So I know how important it is. Thank you. One other thing that my colleague here did remind me of, and it's an important portion of it, but this would impact non-owner occupied houses. Got it. Council Member Wingo? There we go. Okay. You know, for some reason you keep coming up on the speaker's list. Yeah, we are on 79. Right. Who are? We're on 74. Okay. all right so we want to stay on 74 because that's what I do okay okay how's my front end thank you to Chris Albany finally allowed us to do this this is done in Rochester and other cities it's working very well somebody mentioned that this is an anti flipping law it really isn't flipping occurs so quickly but this is not going to catch flippers this is more for the long-term zombie property that's where this really comes into play Right now, if we write 10 to 15 tickets on a house, nothing happens. Absolutely nothing. There's no teeth in our ordinance. So this gives our ordinances some teeth. If a person's holding on to a property for a long period of time, does do nothing to it except for coming in once a year and pays the tax bill, we can't touch them. They don't pay any fines or penalties. They might not show up at housing court. Nothing happens. Now we can assess fees and fines to the house. as i think as much as daily and if those fines and penalties equal more than five percent of the value of the property then we could put those onto the foreclosure list if they don't pay those along with the tax bill every single year so this will make it much more expensive for people to own properties in the city that are left derelict So we're hitting them in the pocketbook, non-owner occupants, for those zombie properties that sit there and do nothing for years, any type of fines and fees. I think this also goes into the court system, so this gives the judges more power, which is important. So this is really a tool to fight flight in the city of Buffalo for zombie-type properties that sit there for long periods of time under the same ownership. Unfortunately, this doesn't fix flipping, but... There's tools to fix every problem. A lot of these properties, the people don't want to flip them. They want to own them and do nothing to them for years. A lot of these properties are bank owned. The banks will pay some penalties. Now the banks tell me sometimes it's cheaper just to pay the taxes and let it sit there. The banks will want to flip those properties to a new owner much quicker than sitting in their inventory sitting and rotting. When a property rots and sits there, it really loses its value. People might come in and strip the property. Mold starts to grow. Some of our homegrown properties coming into play right now are a mess because they've been sitting for 10 years. doing nothing to them. So this really will speed up the clock to get to a new owner on a property that's been abandoned and left for dead, except they might pay the tax. So if it gets, say, $5,000, $6,000, $7,000 in penalties and fees on it, it'll then go to the city auction if not paid. And then a new buyer could then buy it at the auction, which is a good thing actually in that situation. And this year we're taking all the properties, I guess, the city's taking all the properties, So the council members at the end of the day will have to approve those sales at the auction. So if we see a sale of a property that is to a known flipper or a known person that hasn't done things right for the city, council members can strike those off the list. So we've got a few more teeth in the toolbox. Absolutely. So thanks to Chris. We all went to Albany on this for many years. Last year we met with... Assemblyman Sean Ryan, Senator Tim Kennedy helped us push this, and Crystal Peoples. So they all did their job for us and pushed this right along. I'm glad it's a law. Good deal. Good stuff. Thank you both. Alright, next item. Thank you. Okay, can we, so we usually do auto revisits at the end, but if we want to start doing them now, we got something, you had 79? Yeah. I'll bring them all, because we got two more to revisit. Okay, three. Yes, so let's not disrupt the meeting. Let's go right to the end item 80 Commissioner deeds Saying about council member wife item 81 council member glumek excuse for meeting motion for that second by president portion item 82 ordinance Remember chapter 277 motion sent media the whole all right. We're gonna send to committee at a hole So we all right second by council member Fontana. Oh, then we'll meet yep So Any revisits well revisit item number five and finance five and finance what other revisits which one and Councilman Fontana did you have revisit? 20 20 so also item number 20 and also item Number 70 so we can call them in order 522 70 and 79 is the item 20 off the regular agenda Yes I am 20 approved contract extension Eminger Newton pigeon make me gar Okay, this item is before us and my customer Wyatt comes where Fontaine. Yeah, so if I could be recorded in the negative All right, let the record state ocean still passes. Hey next time we have item 5 coming from the civil service citizen salary review Commission who asked for that one councilmember. I mean majority leader mr. Chairman we just want to make the proper motion on this one. The motion is now to adopt as amended with the $15,000 increase for the teacher, for the school board members. Okay so let's do this in order. We have to, we need to rescind the first one which was put on the floor as an approval. So you want to rescind the first? Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Now the motion. The motion is now to adopt as amended with school board members receiving a $15,000 pay in. All right. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Now it's not. It was approved. It should have been adopted. That's what we're being advised. What is the logic between changing a number and an adoption? That's an action of the council if we change a number. Sure Karen. Assistant Corporation Council. Karen Gordon. One of the main reasons or the more the main distinction is that an approval needs to go before the mayor for adoption So this does not need the mayor signature. No, it's a council's interest It's solely All right, we're okay there next time item 79 resolutions for a universal rent stabilization. I Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just like to speak on this item as it's going to, before it goes to ledge, regarding this resolution supporting universal rent stabilization and control. There has been several calls to our office over the course of this great resurgence that we're experiencing here in the City of Buffalo as it relates to rental prices increasing. Now as much as we would like to say great job Mayor Brown for the economic development, the economic resurgence that we're experiencing here, there are some extraneous factors that we're facing and have to contend with as well. as it relates to the housing crisis that we're going through, as it relates to the displacement of folks living in their homes for 20, 30 years, who now, because of rental hikes and rental increases, have been displaced. I believe that housing should be a human right, as a lot of advocates have stated in the past, and that people should not have to live in their homes in fear of eviction or in fear of displacement. Now, when a person has lived in a house for 25 years and they've paid rent at a... affordable increase over those years to maybe $750, or in one year, for that rent to all of a sudden go to $1,300 is uncomfortable. And for me, in this position, I think it's our responsibility to ensure that there is a policy put in place that will regulate these actions by these landlords, but The purpose is to protect the tenants in our city. The purpose is to protect the tenants in western New York and the state of New York. Out of all 62 counties in the state of New York, only eight have policies in place that actually protect the tenants from these hikes. I believe we should ask the state to include... or to change the language so that all counties have the same ability to ensure that folks who are paying $600, $700, $800 a month in rent, just because of an economic boom that's happening here in Buffalo, should not be subjected to rental increases in the 100%. I think that is ridiculous. There's a recommendation of 1.5, but right now, whatever the case is, anything is better than what's happening now with these landlords being unfair in how they're treating these tenants. So as it states right now, the New York State Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974 provides rental protections including rent stabilization for landlords, are subject to regulated rent increases. This should be all across the state, not just eight counties. So for that reason, I would welcome the dialogue between my colleagues and anyone who is interested in speaking on this issue, those folks in the community who are advocating for this, to please come out during this committee meeting next week. The original recommendation, just for the record, was for us to adopt this, but I really would like for us to have a public discourse on this particular issue so that we can hear from the residents and also hear from our colleagues and also from some landlords, because I would really like a landlord to justify how you can take someone's rent from 650 to 1300 in one month just because of the great development That's happening around the corner, down the street, or across the street from your rental property. So, again, I'm looking forward to this debate, not debate, I'm looking forward to this discussion as we move forward in this regulation. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 70, Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 216, Garbage, Rubbish, and Refuge Dumping. Okay, I'll come right back to that since you called that number. Okay. So this is really about the, and I want to thank colleagues for support, just got past me. We have a huge problem with illegal dumping in our city. And what I've come to discover, you know, some people think it's just the person around the corner. Sometimes it's persons coming all the way from outside of the city with their garbage, and instead of their, I think I better start watching my language here. their cheap criminal selves, is that okay? Going to pay to dump their stuff, they dump it in neighborhoods where they think it's just going to be ignored or the city's got to come pick it up. This increases the fine. You come into the city of Buffalo, call your dumping friends if you know them. You come and you dump and you get caught, it's going to cost you $2,200. And if somebody takes a picture or in some way helps us to find you, and we already have people taking pictures and cameras on houses, you will get $1,100. Not a bad gig. Because if I had a couple more hours in my day, I would make a career out of this. And I'd find them, and I'd take the picture, and I'd gladly turn them in. to get the $1,100. And so that went up from 1,000. We haven't even had people, a lot of people were not aware that this was already there, that you could get $1,000. Well, they will be aware now, because they can get $1,100, I believe, once the fine is paid, they can get $1,100 reward and so it's just a nuisance and it's bad. Somebody wheeled one of those big TVs on the wheels, you know, when the big screens first came out. I just saw them wheeling it down Kerr Street and then they stopped at one of the properties I own and just left it there and I ran around the corner, not ran, drove around the corner, caught them. I said, hey, you gotta go get that TV. I said, I'm gonna follow you and call the police. So they went back and got the TV. Then they brought it back to me last week. So, I mean, it's that kind of mess that we see happening over and over. Councilman Winkle and I. I just think it's very important also, Mr. President, for us to highlight the fact that the fee is also now $2,200. That's right. So if you should be convicted of this offense, of this very serious infraction, the fee is now $2,200 defined. is now $2,200. And we also tell our constituents at our mass and stakeholders meeting, which is held at 6... Okay. But we do inform our folks that you do get a check for the conviction of someone who is caught dumping illegally. And I'm glad to know that this went up to $1,100. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Scanlon, that was on another item, but we're not changing the vote, so I don't have to call it, but you can speak to it. You all good? Okay. All right. They figured that out? Anything else? Announcements? Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, May 21, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, May 21, 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, May 21, 2 p.m. Special Committee, Committee on Education, Tuesday, May 21, 12 p.m. any other announcements hearing uh councilmember white thank you i want to invite residents who live in either the maston district lovejoy or university on this saturday we're going to have a cleanup of of Bailey Avenue. This is probably pretty historic, and I want to thank George Johnson for working with us to organize it. We talk about the plight in our community, and so many times we wait for the city to do the cleanup. Well, we're asking for volunteers to come out at 9 a.m., at various locations, for the University District's Varsity Theater, for Lovejoy's Bank of America at the corner of Bailey and East Elephant, and at Mastin is that Chick of the Sea Plaza right at the corner of Kensington and Bailey. So we want to invite residents to come out. Lend it yourself for a couple of hours to clean up our community. You know we talk about the plight, we talk about people who have dumping illegally, but we're going to be working with the city to get some of that stuff. And it just takes us to work together. I don't think we need to have the city come and do a clean sweep, clean sweep to do it. We can do it ourselves, so we're looking to make this an annual event for us to take back our community and to make it look like we want it to look. So please come out on this Saturday, May 18th at 9 a.m. to noon to assist in University Master and Lovejoy District cleanup of Bailey Avenue. Thank you. All right. No other announcements? Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman Fontana. Adjourned.