Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. He's here. He's here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our Chaplain, Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Isaiah 61. The spirit of the sovereign Lord is on me because the Lord is on me. has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He's sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. To bind up the brokenhearted. This last weekend, 514, I saw several of you at remembrance events. This talks about binding up the brokenhearted. Some of you have had friends that went through open-heart surgery or broken ribs and the binding up so that healing can take place. A year... From 514, there are still those with broken hearts, and I would suggest not just individuals but whole neighborhoods. One of the events that I was invited with Deb to, actually, Councilmember Scanlon was in South Buffalo, and I was there with the South Buffalo audience seeing how brokenhearted they are over what happened on Jefferson. It's way bigger than that neighborhood and those zip codes. But much of Buffalo has slid... their arms around those that are brokenhearted. And I thank each one of you for what you've done in moving the needle on that. But there's more to do. So this is an opportunity for the spirit of the sovereign Lord, says is on me, but to be on us, to bind up the brokenhearted, to bind up those that are still brokenhearted and hurting. Would you pray with me? Father. Thank you that you care. One translation says to comfort the brokenhearted. Lord, you care for those whose lives have been changed forever. And Lord, those zip codes, those neighborhoods are one thing, but the city and the region as well. Father, for those that have not come through trauma but are still in the healing, long grieving process, Lord, we ask even now that we be instruments of healing, that you'd use us. to help and to aid those but at the same point as one of the speakers said at one of the events he was asked how are you doing so father to each of us i ask how how are you doing how are each of us doing do we need some of our broken hearts bound and comforted as well so that we can give to others that have need thank you father you love this city and you love those who are hurting, and you come quickly to their side. Let us join you in that journey, I ask, in your precious name. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain, Council Members, and Memorials. We then remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and the freedom of other countries all around the world. We continue to remember our brothers and sisters in Ukraine We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. All right, Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. From the top. Item number one, amendments to Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I skipped something. Council Members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Yes. Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting at any time to review an item. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on May 2, 2023 are approved. Now we can go from town. Item number one, amendment to Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number two, Francis John and Frederick Douglass Apartments Project. Motion to send to C.D. second by council members and remember three pilot project from Mount Olive senior manor housing development motion to approve second by Council member Bowman item number four regarding closure and partial abandonment of a portion of South Park Avenue Motion to send the CD and city planning board second by council member Wingo item number five report itself 68 earnest motion to approve items five through eight Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number nine, report of sale 23 Roebling. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 10, report of sale 14 Shepherd. Motion to approve items 10 through 12. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 13, Seeker-Nagdack for 462 Niagara Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 14, Brittany Montgomery, Diversity, Inclusionary. coordinator motion to send the civil service second my councilmember bowman item number 15 city of buffalo discretionary fund policy motion to send finance items 15 and 16. second by councilmember for your letter item number 17 certificate of necessity fire vehicle repairs motion to receive and file second by councilmember for a little public works item number 18 change order motion to approve items 18 through 30. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Able number 31, permanent to enter agreement for radio links. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Colombo. Item number 32, food store license 3154 Bailey. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 33, food store license 825 Broadway. Motion to send the legislation item 35 through 39. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 40, first quarter project and expenditure report. Motion to send the finance items 40 and 41. Second by Councilmember Ferriero. Item number 42, liquor license notice for 69 Delaware. Motion to receive and file items 42. through 47. second by council member white item number 48 notice of appointment for labor too motion to send the civil service second by council member fioriletto miscellaneous item number 49 citizens planning council recommended 2024 capital budget and four year capital improvement program motion sent to committee of the whole second by president pro timscan item number 50 anna analyst the city of buffalo 2023 citizens salary review commission motion to send the finance second by council member wyatt item number 51 line micro mobility Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 52, potential public safety locations for extreme weather events. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 53, Board of Education salary recommendation. Motion to send the finance items 53 and 54. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Petitions item number 55, special use for now owner occupied short term rental. There's no address. I'm sorry, which one, rerun? 55 motion send legislation city planning board items 55 through 60. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, appoint administrative aide. Motion is to approve items one through four. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number five, appoint cell block attendant. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number six, notice of appointment, park supervisor. Motion is to approve. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number seven, appoint cell block attendant. Second by Mayor. Motion is to receive and file item 7 through and including 20. Second by Councilmember Farrell-Lettem. Finance, item number 21, Inter-Fund Loan Account. Motion to approve items 21, 22, 23, and 24. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Community Development, item number 25, report is sold, portion of 329, Wyoming. Motion to approve items 25 and 26. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 27, addressing the purchase of 3241, Bailey. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 28, report is sold, 222, Carl. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 29, purchasing 69, Oakmont Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 30 reported so 779 East Elephant motion to deny items 30 and 31 Say my councilman Wingo. Did you want to speak to the record? Yes These are denied following reasons the property the applicant for a property on Winslow does not keep up with their current property and the applicant for item 30 live across from or Adjacent to that property and did not make their intentions clear on what they want to do with the problem Alright for the record and I'm number 32 report a sell portion of 52 Richland motion to approve So my council member Wingo and a number 33 Building a downtown Buffalo Bill Stadium motion to receive in file 33 through and include 30 including 39 second by president pro temp Scanlon item number 40 DDA for thankful CDC 197 to a one brick man and 204 to a two 10 subner motion to approve second by councilmember Bowman. Item number 41 1166 Abbott new used car motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 42, Letters of Support for Special Use Permit, 1010-MW. Motion to receive in file 42 through 44. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 45, Special Use for 462 Niagara, 120-148 Hudson, and multiple address on 7th. Motion to approve 45 and approve 46 as amended. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. 47, Special Use 2025 Broadway. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 48, special use 397 Jefferson. This item is in the Ellicott District. We were. It can be approved. No, it can be approved. Okay. Hold on. I'm sorry. All right. Put approved with conditions and I'll submit the conditions. Okay. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 49, special use 1954 Clinton. Motion to recommit. Items 49 and 50, and Councilmember Golombek wanted to talk on item 50. All right, Councilmember Golombek is the second, and Councilmember Golombek, you have the floor, sir. Thank Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 50 is the establishing the lower Black Rock historic district. I will ultimately end up supporting this as I have pretty much since day one. However, we've been meeting with the developer for the past month or so. And we were able to get into a little bit more of the nitty gritty over the past couple of weeks. And everyone agreed that we would wait at least two, maybe four weeks, perhaps longer. Because the sticking point is the one property, the Blossom House, which has been moved before. But it's an 1830s documented, 1830s house from the city of Buffalo, one of the oldest ones in the city. And we've got to figure out what to do with that. So that's the sticking point right now, but we will come to some sort of a conclusion one way or the other. So it's just going to take us a little bit longer to scour the neighborhood, possibly looking for a site to move the house to, among other things. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Item number 51 zone and map amendment 18 Adams motion to approve items 51 through 56 with conditions placed on 53 second by council member scan item number 57 zone and map amendment 549 West Utica motion to recommit items 57 through 59 second by the majority leader Item number 60 new tire handler for 1409 South Park motion to approve second by council member president pro temp scan in Resolutions, item number 61, ordinance amendment for chapter 137, seven schedule of fines. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 62, Spark, streamlining processes to attract and retain eligible. Motion to adopt and remain in their civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 63, budget and personnel amendment for chief innovation officer. Motion to approve. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 64, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt item 64 and 65. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 66, fee waiver for E-Prayer at Downtown Islamic Center. Motion to approve item 66 and 67. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 68, set public hearing for partial abandonment and closure of portion of South Park Avenue. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item number 69, fee waiver for Juneteenth Festival. Motion to approve. Second by council member Fairlittle. Item number 70, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. What do we do with it? All right, anything we need to revisit? All right, hearing none. Clerk announcement. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, May 23rd, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance file on civil service is Tuesday, May 23rd, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, May 23rd, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, May 23rd, 2023 at 2 p.m. Special committees, public hearing on budget will be Tuesday, May 16, 2023 at 5 p.m. Committee on education will be Tuesday, May 23, 2023 at 11 a.m. Council Member, any announcements for your districts? Seeing no announcements. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.