Council member Farrell at all. That's where Fontana president customer frantic here. That's my work alone back here council president bridge It had key council member Rivera president council member Scanlon council member Wingo council member. Why here warm present? As we remain standing our council chaplain Reverend Al Warner, thank you common council president so i thought today council's working hard budget hearings happening uh we're only a couple of days past mother's day it just seemed to me that for the name like queen city just seemed like we should uh focus on how important to each of us that role is the mother of my grandchildren joined me today so i've got her in our midst and and that's so uh it's so wonderful to be able to have her here For each of us, as we think about the day that just passed and the influence that that had on our lives, I pulled a quote from another politician, actually, to share with you. My mother, George Washington said, was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual, and physical education I received from her. That's a pretty powerful statement. Paul was 31, spends a whole chapter talking about women, and the incredible influence they have in the home, marriage, marketplace, all around us in every aspect of our lives. So many of you a couple days ago did the honoring, but as a city, I want to sort of lead us in an honoring of the mothers of our region. Will you pray with me? Father, thank you so much for your goodness. Thank you that our lives are formed and the atmosphere, at least in our homes, often set by mothers, by mothers. I pray a blessing on women around the region today, specifically those in the City of Buffalo. I think of all those that we've honored in these council chambers over the last many years, women that have specifically been here founding and leading not-for-profits in the city, making our city better neighborhood by neighborhood, block by block, family by family. I think of how important they've been in our religious institutions, our educational institutions, in every part of our society. And today we pause just to reflect and to say thank you. Just as George Washington did, we say thank you. Thank you that you have blessed many of us in that role. And Lord, I know that at least for Deb and me, that there are those that are not our physical mothers that have sort of adopted us into their family. And because of that, we are better. Thank you for those who mother more than just the physical offspring to whom they gave birth. Now as a Queen City, we bless women today, collectively and individually. In your precious name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Councilmembers, memorials. Councilmember Golombé. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Peter Gospodarsky, many of you know from parking violations, his brother Gary passed away this past week, 56 years young. I think he just retired from the City of Buffalo or BMHA. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. And Jerry Purnett was a longtime Riverside resident. who passed away last week. It's exceptionally sad when you go to James E. Gray's funeral home or Kalano Funeral Home and it seems like a Riverside or Black Rock reunion, especially when it's somebody young that passes away. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his friends, in particular his dad who outlived him. Hearing none, no others, we always remember the men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and others around this world since our last meeting. We pause for those in the names read in these chambers for a moment of silence. You may be seated. We have several special presentations. One from Council Member Rashid N.C. Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to invite the two organizations in my district, University Heights Collaborative and the University District Block Club Coalition to come down, please. This is Block Club Month. I wanted to recognize two of the organizations who are very influential in collaborating with me and with the businesses in our district and making positive things happen in the University District. Not a problem. So I want to make this presentation. to the University of Florida and the University of, New University Heights Collaborative, city recognized University of Florida for their dedicated community. And I hereby present this UDCC for working with the Black Club leaders this law enforcement to develop resources within the community. You go, go on. You still have time. You can come down. We want to get you in the photo. And I also want to recognize the University Heights Collaborative. City of Buffalo recognizes the University Heights Collaborative for their dedicated health care community. I hereby present the certificate of UAC for making an enhancement of the quality of life for the University Heights by working with residents, car owners, block clubs, UB staff. I'm glad it's the University Heights Collaborative. because you know that's a key part of what we're doing in our community, law enforcement, fiscal owners, elected officials in order to coordinate and develop resources and responsibility within the community. So again, they are more than just an organization, they really, for our community and engage the community. I talk about the university and the important relationship that we have with them, as well as our businesses on Bailey Avenue. So again, I want to thank Ms. Annie Cheatham, who's the president, and Vicki Bertino, who's the president of his respective organizations for all you do in the community. Thank you for all you do. We want to thank the councilman who's been a great supporter of us, with Unify and the group together. And we're just gonna keep working, keep working. doing it with partnership with the community. What we do, we see this with our neighborhood, our community, we feel how we do it with the park, our community. We want to thank the Council of City of Buffalo for all the work. As we always say, many hands make light work. So thank you. And the University District, of course, has their big concert coming up. Community Day. He's right there. He got it. They have more stars coming to that than the Cincinnati Jazz Festival. We also have presentations by Councilmember Ulysses Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Principal of East High School, Mr. Darrell King, some of his boys come down. Matter of fact, all the fellas, you all come down. Mr. Bryant, everyone, Coach Bryant, I could present these Because of the recognition to Principal King and to Coach Bryant and his team, I had the privilege of being in Coach Bryant's gym class. He was also the coach of Buffalo Traditional back when we were the champion, T-High. But, you know, T-High is no more. Now they've kind of merged T-High with some other schools, and now they're East. And you can see the result of great coaching, because it doesn't matter where Coach Bryant goes, he produces the championship team. I specifically remember, and this is kind of personal, but I specifically remember back in 1990, was it three? Was it 93? It was 1993. Just to speak on the tenacity and the fortitude. of Coach Bryant, I believe it was 1993 or 94, Coach Bryant was going through an illness. And I won't say what that was, but he had showed all of us what grit was, and he had showed all of us what strength looked like. And I don't know if he realizes how much of a lesson that was to all of us in his health class back then. And he would teach the class for about 15 minutes, Then he'd go in the first row, the last desk, and he wouldn't act up in class. And we said, Mr. Prine, are you all right? And he was like, mm, I'm all right, I'm all right. Every single day, he came to school, he came to work to invest in these young people, including, that is not a, if that's not a testament to the commitment and dedication. I didn't know, I didn't know if I would ever get an opportunity to share that and let him know how much we observed him and how much we noticed how great of a man he was to show us what a man does. A man goes to work. A man goes to work. He treated, he showed the fellas on the basketball team what work and dedication meant and what it looked like. And you have two very good, and I don't mean to take up too much time, Brother President, but You have two very good role models at East High School. One in your and another I mean if he's not like a father figure some of you all know he don't take no stuff. Neither does Principal King and the school is losing another great leader and Dr. Mauricio. Let's give him a round of applause.
 Dr.
 Mauricio has all ally of my office. He's always been an ally of this council as he's always made sure that I had what I needed for the committee on education along with the Carestis. We have great working relationship with the school district and it just goes to show that we do have people in our district who cares about our young men of color who are growing and aspiring to be great contributors to society. Coach Bryant, I have both you and Principal King's certificates for the great job that you have done with these boys and taking them to the championship. All right, Ms. Rose Snyder, I am so sorry that I've been to overlook you, but let's allow Principal King and Coach Bryant to share. Good afternoon. I don't want to say too much. Thank you. to the council member who's been a great ally with us at East as we're in our rebuilding transition phase, my co-principal here, Rose Schneider. It's been a wonderful two years for me, and it's been a learning experience. Dr. Mauricio, who I'm very, very sad, but happy for him, but sad for us to lose him, has been a great example and a great role model as well. And to work with Coach Bryant, it's hard to describe. You kind of have to see it in action. So he is certainly a role model for me. But to watch what he does with these young men, we hear about basketball, but he doesn't just teach basketball. He teaches how to be a man. He teaches them manners. When we got on the elevator, everybody, side and wait for Mrs. Schneider to get on. And they didn't say a word, they weren't loud, they just stopped. And that was cool. I've seen Coach Bryan teach this when I first got there, so the things that he's teaching about how to be a man and how to be successful, we can't say enough. So thank you to Coach Bryan especially. Is it on? Yes it is. I'd like to thank everyone that's here that is recommending and recognizing these young men here today. And they did a heck of a job. And so not only are they athletes, they're student athletes first. I believe we were, out of the athletic team, highest grade point average in the district. And attendance also. Each and every one of the seniors are attendants. three girls, all have an athletic scholarship and one has an attendance college. Thank you everyone. Attending college, and that's the most that I'm proud of. Yes, they are champions, but this is only the beginning of their life. And I just wanna thank everyone here. And finally, if you don't mind, Councilman, Ms. Schneider, these are your boys. I just want to thank everybody. I don't want to take your time, but I am extremely proud of these young men. And I thank everybody, and I thank you for facilitating all of what you've done for our kids, our school, and our community. Clayton. Sir, I was looking for a little theme music for you all, so they told me I had to find a clean version of this. Let me see if I do it right. All right. I didn't know that there was a bad version, so it's good to have young people around you who are looking up and saying there is a clean version. And for those of you a little older, it says all I do is win, win, win. Congratulations. All right, let me make sure I cut this off before in the middle of council meeting they'll be saying all I do is win. All right. Amen. Good stuff. All righty. We have anything out of order, Mr.? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Majority Leader? Motion to take item 64 out of order. All right. Motion to take 6-5. Was that a late file? Or is that a... No, that's item 64 in resolution. All right. Motion to take item 64 out of order. Second by Council Member Lombard. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Lombard. It is a late file. It is a late file. I apologize. Were there any objections? Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us and I take away your right to pause this meeting if you have not had a chance to look at any of the late files. On the top. Item 1, submission of monthly report, April 2018. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Branzac. Item 2, landmark application, 511 Michigan Avenue. Motion to send the legislation, items 2 and 3. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 4, Fruit Belt Strategic Plan. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. And for the record, this is the plan that the Fruit Belt community has collaboratively worked on for almost two years. Many of the representatives are here today. So as a public announcement, today is May the 15th. This will be open for discussion on May the 22nd at 1 o'clock. Would we send it to we send it to CD? So at 1 o'clock on May the 22nd, this will be discussed. And if any persons for or against would like to be heard on this, that will be the day that will be discussed. The only day, probably that we have discussed it, unless there's some unreadiness. To move this forward after that, there will be a, a removal of some of the properties. from the moratorium and those will be by resolution for the Fruitbelt Land Trust and I believe three or two other projects and one RFP for the doctor's house in the Fruitbelt area that has sat vacant for many years. So I just want to make sure that the public knows that they are allowed to speak at that meeting. Next item. Item 5, Urban Homestead Program, Add 159, Newberg. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. 6 controllers budget response 2018 2019 motion sent to committee of the whole second my councilman Columbia and some notification cereals motion to receive and file second by councilman for your letter I made changing contracts CIR electrical motion to approve items 8 through 29 second by councilman Fontana Item 30, appoint deputy police commissioner. Motion to send the civil service item 30 and 31. Seconded by President Proton. Item 32, secondhand dealer, 1872 Seneca Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item 33, Buffalo Traffic Violations Agency Annual Report. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 34, PAL Obtaining Towed Vehicle. Motion to send to Legislation. Second by Council Member Golombe. Item 35, Real Estate Department Obtaining Towed Vehicle. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frenzik. Item 36, Liquor License 153 Elmwood. Motion to receive and file items 36 through 39. Second by Council Member Frenzik. Item 40, Notice of Appointment, Council Intern. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 41, notice of appointment, seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 42, notice of appointment, temporary provisional permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Miscellaneous items, item 43, questions regarding budget. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Freelander. Item 44, Empire State Development SEQR Buffalo Gloucester Capital Initiative. Motion to receive and file items 44 and 45. Second by Councilmember Pantana. Item 46, Buffalo Architecture Foundation Little Libraries. Motion to send to the CDE. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 47, lease of lots 1533 and 1537, Genesee. Motion to send to Finance and Strategic Planning. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 48, request to speak parking issue near 937 Elmwood. Motion to send to Legislation, items 48 through 50. Second by Council Member Freeland. Petitions, item 51, special use 987 Niagara. Motion to send to Legislation, City Planning Board, items 51... through 58. Second by Council Member Wingo. Committees, Civil Service, Item 1, Appointment Plant Filtration Supervisor. Motion to approve Items Number 1, 2, 3, and 4. Second by Council Member Peerlow. Item 5, Notice of Appointments, Temporary, Provisional, Permanent. Motion to receive and file Number 5 and 6. Finance Committee, Item 7, 85, River Rock Lease. Motion now to approve. Motion to approve. say my customer white i made public meeting spectrum franchise agreement motion to receive and file saying my counselor white item nine require bfd to immediately retrofit firehouses motion to receive and file say my council member scan community development committee item 10 report of sale 57 brooklyn motion to approve second by councilman wingo item 11 concerns residential project For Broadway. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 12, call for full cleanup of West Valley Nuclear Site. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 13, Amherst reviewing policy on who pays costs for police at events. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council, by the Majority Leader. Item 14, report of sale, 143 Waverly. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee, item 15, food store license, 1200 Hurdle. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 16, property management license. If there are no objections, motion to approve items 16 and 17. second by council member glombe item 18 sidewalk cafe rusty nickel brewing company 18 that item originally came without recommendation and the district council member wishes to for the rusty nail to to approve with condition approved with conditions set by the district councilman um second by council member wingo and for the record the applicant asked for more than 10 feet from the building the drawing shows in the center of it a tree that is maturing that people would have to walk in the mud of the tree. I've been out to the site and we'll authorize seven feet total from the building including the planter box because there was a 9 feet 9 inch request plus a planter box after that. If the applicant wants to keep the planter box seven feet total from the building. Next item. Item 19, adaptive rears permit, 1030 Parkside. A motion to deny the applicant is going to file a new application. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 20, sidewalk cafe, Waves. If there are no objections, motion to approve items 20, 21, and 22. Item 20 would be with conditions, Mr. Chair. With conditions. You want 20 also with conditions? 20. That's right. Approve with conditions set by the District Council Member. Okay. And the conditions on this one, again, I went out to visit it. It is another one that has eight feet from the building. There is a tree and there is a parking ticket machine of which. people would not be able to walk down the street and then the sidewalk on the other side of it is uneven it looks like on purpose it was kind of the design um and i have a concern that i think we need to be looking at on these cafes sidewalk patios when they lift them up in the winter they often do not fill the holes and so we put these nice new sidewalks down Then they crack and then they put down the new patio in a different place There are four different places where patios have been put on this street on Chippewa And so we might need to look at Legislation of what there or rules what they're supposed to do When they pick them up so that the city is not incurring the cost to then go back out and repair their sidewalk but for this one six feet maximum and From the from the building 6 feet maximum. Second by councilman, next time 23 additional info planned unit development 98 Maurice 85 lead to 29 out 427 out. Motion to receive and file second by council member field education committee item 24 city honors petition. Motion is to receive and file items 24 through and including 27. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough. Committee of the Whole, item 59, 2017 annual report, Buffalo Traffic Violations Agency. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by President Pro... Resolutions item 60 fee waiver bury the violence walk Motion to approve by customer front set item 61 closing the condo tax break loophole Referred to council member from the Lloyd Lovejoy district. Well, we can motion to approve and if I'd like to speak on Right motion Actually meant to adopt I apologize adopt yeah motion is now to adopt motion rescind the approval and Second by councilmember Wyatt and now to adopt second by councilmember Wyatt. So I'm a Fontana you had a floor the concern here There's there's been discussion within the real estate world that condos are Having an unfair effect at this point to some condos once they're assessed originally They don't change the assessment that could be a problem down the road, but this is even a step further This is the choice of some developers to call single-family homes condos and if they're built and they're called a condo that could be creating a situation for us in the tax realm in the assessment office I don't know if we would allow it but this was an article in the Buffalo News that I wrote a story on we're just looking for Albany tax Albany politicians to look at this issue a little closer and close the loophole so that single-family homes couldn't be called a condominium just quite frankly they're not and I don't care who cuts the grass and does the maintenance it's still a house it's not It's not a condo. It's not a building that shares one footprint. It's many footprints across the city, and we would be unfairly taxing other homeowners at an unfair rate at that point if these residents were able to live in a condo-type situation. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 62, home rule request sale of bonds in the city of Buffalo. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 63, waiver of fees for Days Park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Forenza. Item 65, food store sales regarding weapons. Motion to send to legislation. Second by, and I think we wanted to adopt this in the remainder to legislation. Motion is to adopt remainder to legislation And approve I'm sorry that would be an approval because it will be going toward an ordinance Okay, we've got expert opinion we can still adopt it yeah motion to adopt the resolves remainder to legislation This is on a constituents who contacted actually several council members about weapons and Being sold in corner stores, and then some of the other council members say they've got a couple of stores selling knives. And I think the last thing most neighborhoods need is you're selling beer and knives all in the same place. And so the Department of License is now going to add a. box on every application that would ask if the store is going to sell weapons and that gives us the vetting opportunity but then we'll put in the legislation where they will not be able to without special permission or whatever corporation council is working on now councilor wingo thank you mr chair uh why are you why we're you know discussing food store selling weapons given the climate in in our nation these days regarding people being you know approached for having items in their hands that are unidentifiable and also being having to have interactions with the law enforcement because of these unknown items we had a recent incident in madison district with a food store that was selling water guns of course these water pistols some of them can be spray painted black and they could look real and And it poses a real danger to the young children who are playing with them. Because you can only imagine if a law enforcement officer should drive past and see this child with something that looks like a handgun. That could be catastrophic and tragic. For for that family. So even with the food store sales regarding the weapons, we've actually had one of our food stores over on another part of our city. Uh, district who are also selling pocket knives and this has been a concern to the constituency and I am 100% in favor of this. So I would like to be. Added to this if it's all right with you. Absolutely. Wonderful. Thank you. Because I think the gentleman who. has been reaching out, also reached out to you and several other council members, so I think that's important. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 66, home rule request parking permits. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 67, permission to hang pride flags in portions of Elmwood Avenue and Allen Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Fiorilella. Item 68, amend towing company's policy procedure in the City of Buffalo charter. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. This proposed ordinance amendment comes in response to complaints by both residents and police officers regarding the current towing practices within the City of Buffalo, which are leaving vehicle owners confused and sometimes with a heavy burden placed upon them to retrieve their vehicles. Despite being required by law, many of these tow truck operators are not informing the Buffalo Police Department of the make and model of the car that is being towed. This ultimately leaves the resident who thinks their car may have been stolen... To contact the police department, which results in a wasted time and resources by the police department, or attempting to locate a stolen vehicle. When, in fact, it has simply been stolen. In addition, despite towing 24 hours a day. Toe companies have specific hours for car retrieval. It did not allow owners to retrieve their cars on weekends, but charge for weekend storage. If a vehicle is towed on a Friday, the car owner is without a vehicle all weekend. They can pick it up on Monday for double the cost, which is approximately $400. To make it even more difficult is the vast majority of these companies only accept cash. And so if a company's towing 24 hours a day, I don't see why it's unrealistic to provide weekend hours or some more hours for people to pick up their vehicles. In addition, the fact that they're only accepting cash in a city where we aren't the wealthiest city in the world is just mind-boggling to me. So the amendments would require tow companies to either staff their facilities on the weekend so owners can retrieve their vehicles or to cease the weekend charges and to accept additional forms of payment, including credit cards. The resolution also requested the city department to permit an inspection which monitors the towing companies to inform them that per city charter, if they are not informing the 911 police lieutenant of the make and model that's being towed, they will be fined. So I'm looking for this to be passed and adopted, hopefully, and I think my colleagues wish for it. Will this also include if the city tows a vehicle to our facility? That's something we can talk about, sir. Because what we've seen, and I mean, if we're going to... I'm not against that. I think if we're saying to private companies that here are the regulations, the city should be following those same regulations. And we've seen people who have lost their cars because the fees ended up being more than what the car was worth. And then we go out and we auction off their car or we give it to some department to drive around in. And at the end of the day, I think that... the city should follow those same rules. And if we're going to tow on the weekend, and I know some of those because things are illegally parked or but I know of incidents where there was a parade coming through or something, somebody really did not know, their car is towed, it's on the weekend, now you've got this huge bill, and you can't even, except in some situations, go to that car if you've got medicine in it. Those type of things, we've just had some real horror stories. So I think that that's good. And then what we found out in budget, is that a lot of the tow trucks, we don't know if all the tow trucks are even authorized by the city of Buffalo, because we don't have a mechanism that we go out and check them. So the honest folks will come and pay the fee, and then those who just figure, well, you gotta catch me first, they don't, and they could go for years. So I think it's a good resolution to really look into, and I think it helps people. thank you one thing i just want to be clear about i i'm well aware that towing is a necessary evil whether it's an abandoned car or one that's involved in an accident one that's just simply violating city parking regulations but um it seems like a lot of the companies are just trying to make this as difficult as possible when it should really just be a straightforward and swift transaction absolutely retrieve your car absolutely thank you sir next next item someone from council staff will come and talk to you next item Oh, Council Member Franzen. Thank you, Mr. President. This problem exists also on, I don't know, Chris, are you talking about city lots or like the private lots downtown? I should address the chair, but my question is, you know. No, you can go ahead. Council Member Franzen. Yeah, that's right. The private lots, because I know people, you know, they've contacted me, they had problems with this. In one instance, there were shows on Main Street and the people, here's the other thing, I think it's, I don't know if it's city ordinance, it's probably city ordinance. states that these private lots that don't look like they're used at the evening hours, it has to be clearly posted on those lots that if you park here, you risk getting towed at the owner of the vehicle's expense. And these folk went to the theaters downtown, and it was in the winter months, And, you know, they told me they parked there because they couldn't see a sign anywhere. A sign because they saw no cars whatsoever. The lot was only used during the day. There was no chain or anything stopping them from going in. And there didn't seem to be proper signage. In fact, what they did was they saw the tow truck pulling their car down the street. They're chasing their car on foot after, see, people go... for a nice evening in downtown Buffalo, and they probably shouldn't have parked in that private lot, but there was improper signage, according to them. And they didn't know that they couldn't park there, and their whole evening is ruined, and then, like Mr. Scanlon said, it's closed on the weekend, and they're getting socked. So they have a bad taste in their mouth with coming to see a show. So also, we have to make sure that these lots have a proper and visible signage. that is not just some little sign off in a corner somewhere, but posted clearly probably where a car would pull in. They should take precautions if they can. chain off the lot or what have you, but it's a scam. The whole thing is a scam with these private companies, with these confiscatory charges. And certainly the people that own these lots are benefiting from this too. I'm sure they're getting a break off from that. So that signage has to be there as well, saying don't park here. You could be told. I have seen those signs, but in some cases what these people told me is that they couldn't see a sign. Yes, sir. Councilmember Revere. Thank you very much Mr. President. There is a unit in the Buffalo Police Department that works with the tow truck operators. Should they tow a car, they have to report it to them so they don't put as a missing or stolen vehicle. So there is a unit perhaps that can come and meet with this council. Councilmember Scanlon asked me to change the the motion it is now to adopt the results and send it to legislation. I have a concern similar to what you have with regards to the city itself not being open on weekends to to facilitate people receiving or retrieving their vehicles. And there's a reason for that. The Buffalo Police Department, when they tow a vehicle, if it's on the scoff law, if there's any tickets owed, if there's an insurance problem, they will not release it until those proper paperwork are in. However, absent that, absent... Those reasons, whether there's scoff laws, whether if it's just I want my vehicle, everything's paid to date, I have to wait until Monday, there's a towing fee, there's a storage fee for each day that it's at the impound. And then secondly, I think we need to look at the tow truck operators. I've gotten complaints regarding them booting cars on private property. Somebody goes out to dinner, a private owner calls 911, 911 calls, calls the tow truck operators and they go in, they put a boot on it, and they sit on that vehicle until the owner comes out of the restaurant or wherever the person's at, and they have to negotiate with the tow truck operators. And sometimes it's in the hundreds of dollars for them to take the boots off, not to even tow it, just to take the boots off. tow truck off the vehicles so it's to me it's kind of a scam between the tow truck operators and some of the private properties I don't know if they share in the fines or the fees that the tow truck operators are getting but they're exorbitant it costs almost as much as taking the car out of the impound so there is a problem with tow truck operators booting vehicles on private property they The minute they get a call, they're on the spot and the first thing they do is they boot the car. And I've had a number of incidents in my district where I've talked to the owners of the parking lot and said, why are you doing this? Is there a grace period where you allow these people to come back before they boot the vehicle? As soon as they get there, they're booting the vehicle. So we need to go back, circle back for the various reasons that are mentioned here, whether it's on private property, whether it's These tow truck operators not being open on weekends and the city itself. What can we do to return vehicles to people? So they're not paying the storage fee as well Absent any reasons for them to hold the vehicles at the end. Absolutely Councilman front end if there's any change to that ordinance at all with the with the private loss I think it should be clearly stated that if the lot is not in Open for you know for parking that time it should be clearly coned off if they're there to be able to take a car they can clearly put cones up and Keep them there. Maybe then the cones are nice because you don't put a rope across Maybe somebody does want to park on the lot legally the cone then could serve to be moved Drive in put the cone back as residents sometimes just feel us. It's parking I'll park there and then they're gonna be issued a boot and there should be no negotiation between them and the operator of tow truck He might need 200 bucks to fix his car the next day so he charges him 200 for the next person gets away with 120 and Or maybe someone's only got 80 bucks, so it takes the 80 bucks. That's just not something we want our residents to have to deal with in negotiating with rogue tow truck guys on a city lot. So they should be clearly coned off. Now, if you drive past the cones... sorry, you know, the phone call is stopped. Don't call your councilman. Don't call Mr. Francik at that point. Mr. Fontana, because you drove past cones. But when the last clear as day open, it seems like no one else is there. What the heck's the harm in this? And you come out and your nice rims and your car are all scratched up from a boot and it cost you 200 bucks. You're You're going to Cheechawaga or Amherst the next time for dinner. And that's the problem. We don't want them to leave the city of Buffalo. We want them to come into the city. And that's how I feel. So the cones, I think, should be added. It should be clearly stated in the ordinance that the cones would be placed so that residents are not put at peril. The only fear I have about the cones, and I have a large parking lot on Ferry. I've got three entrances. I put up cones. The cones are not going to be there in the morning. I was thinking that, but you're technically not towing out of the lot per se, and you don't have someone there stationed with a tow truck with boots, so you're not actively potentially doing that? Let me say this. Posted on my property, and the reason is people will park there, and then when Sunday comes or we need our parking lot, We are spots are taking we had a guy park his semi right on the property with no permission Well, and he would just be a man lot in downtown Buffalo. Maybe that would be a better situation just for downtown They're obviously staffed This is obviously a situation where they're making money and they're essentially inviting somebody onto the lot if I don't want someone out my lot They're not coming on my lot playing it simple I know cones could be taken kid will take it but if they're there to boot the car they're there to make sure the cones up and But guess what? As soon as the cones are up and they stay up, no one pulls in there, they're not making that money, they're not happy. So they're obviously not doing anything in their power to hold those entrances free of cars. They essentially want the cars to park there so they can charge them $100. 100 bucks. I think whatever the regulation is going to be, it needs to be across the city. And I don't know how you pull out one out of the other. So we work on that. One of the things I just asked Corporation Council about was because you talked about those prices and what I was just told we can't regulate the charges, but we can regulate the practice. And I think that to make a company have to post what their charges are and those charges stay the same or else it is unfair that you then charge one party one thing and charge another party another. We can regulate that. So that might be something that the sponsor, you know, in looking, I know we just dumped a whole lot more than what you were talking about. But I think while we're dealing with it, let's just deal with it all. Yep. Yeah, though just the one thing I did want to follow up on, we're talking about the private lots and people parking there. The responsibility isn't solely on that lot owner, I don't think. I think some of it, I think there's a lot of people who see an empty parking lot and decide they're going to park there and try and get away with it. So some of the responsibility is on the drivers as well. But like Councilmember Franczak said, now that lot is, and we have signs up that says, Arc here, you will be told, because I don't have time to find people all around the neighborhood who just decided they know they weren't going to church when they parked there. They knew that that wasn't the parking lot of McDonald's on Delavan. But I understand everybody's point of view. I think Council Member Winkle, you've got to park a lot over there. I think if they go up into the club down the street, they know good and well they weren't coming to Hanty Ike. Am I right? Actually, my son and I, we went out and posted signs on our gate that says private parking. If you park here, you will be told at your expense. Which is okay with that. Yeah. Kind of says pray to park, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, you can pray in part you go praying it's gonna be gone you come around next item 169 Did we rescind the previous motion? Previous motion. Let's do it again. We send them go ahead motion to rescind the previous second by customer for us to adopt a Council and send a remainder now it is to adopt and send the remainder to legislation where it will be discussed I know there was a question of when the public could speak it. It'll be in that that meeting So it's good to have public that wants to speak. Thank you, sir. All right second by council 69 commercial deeds motion to adopt item 69 and 70 second by council member Columbeck. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday May 22nd, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday May 22nd, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday May 22nd, 2 p.m. Also there is a public budget hearing on the mayor's recommended budget for 2018-2019, Tuesday May 15th, which is tonight at 5 p.m. All right councilmember's announcements. Councilmember Wyatt. I want to announce to the University District Residents a volunteer meeting at 5 30 tomorrow which is Wednesday at 995 Kinsington for the University United Festival. And I also want to announce that the festival will be taking place on June 9th, Saturday, at the Rotary Field University United Festival. All are welcome. Parade starts at 10. Festival starts at 11. Thank you. All right. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The recognition of National Older Americans Month on this month, which is May 12th, On May 22nd at 10 a.m. through 2 p.m., we will have the fourth annual Senior Citizen Health and Wellness Fair. It will be at the Koestler Athletic Center at Canisius College, which is in the Madison District. You do have to call and make your reservations. And if you don't have your tickets, they'll put your name on the list. That phone number you can call for all of you who are watching is 885-422-8000. 3290. It's free admission with your ticket. If you don't get your ticket, you can just call the number. They'll put you on a list. So that number again is 885-3290. There will be over 40 health care providers there with free legal advice, live demonstrations to show you some senior exercises, Zumba and live dancing, as well as a wellness walk. and vision screening. They will also feed you so you have food and refreshments. Again, my office will be there to answer any questions that you may have that we can help you with. But again, this is May 22nd from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Canisius College in the Coessler Athletic Center. And there is free parking at 1829 Main Street for our seniors at East Delavan. Again, that's free parking for the seniors. And that's the fourth annual senior citizen Health and Wellness Fair. We're looking forward to having all of our seniors come out and get this free information. Free food and free information. Come get it. Thank you. Some fried chicken and... No, no, just kidding. I'm just kidding. On May 22nd, my office is sponsoring a resume writing workshop and mini job fair with Roswell Park Cancer Institute. It's at the North Buffalo Community Center, and it will highlight opportunities for professionals such as nurses, laboratory technicians, and clinical center associates. And again, Tuesday, May 22nd, 430 to 630 at the North Buffalo Community Center. All right. Good. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Sorry, one more announcement, because I know there are many people from the St. Rose Lima community who are probably paying attention, but we denied the license today. But we're going to have a special meeting on May 22nd at St. Rose Lima regarding the special use permit for St. Rose Lima at 5 p.m. All right. Thank you. Anything else, Council Members? Majority Leader, what's your motion? Motion to adjourn. Thank you, Council Member Rashid N.C. Wyatt.