Speaker 1, Speaker 2, Speaker 3, Speaker 4, Speaker 5, Speaker 6, Speaker 7, Speaker 8, Speaker 9, Speaker 10, Speaker 11, Speaker 12, Speaker 13, Speaker 14, Speaker 15, Speaker 16, Speaker 17, Speaker 18, Speaker 19, Speaker 20, Speaker 21, Speaker 22, Speaker 23, Speaker 24, Speaker 24, Speaker 25, Speaker 26, Speaker 27, Speaker 28, Speaker 29, Speaker 30, Speaker 31, Speaker 32, Speaker 33, Speaker 34, Speaker 34, Speaker 35, Speaker 36, Speaker 37, Speaker 38, Speaker 39, Speaker 40, Speaker 41, Speaker 42, Speaker 42, Speaker 43, Speaker 44, Speaker 45, Speaker 45, Speaker 46, Speaker 47, Speaker 48, Speaker 49, Speaker 49, Speaker 50, Speaker 51, Speaker 52, Speaker 52, Speaker 53, Speaker 54, Speaker 56, Speaker 56, Speaker 57, Speaker 58, Speaker 58, Speaker 59, Speaker 51, Speaker 52, Speaker 53, Speaker 53, Speaker 54, Speaker 56, Speaker 57, Speaker 58, Speaker
 It was an unusually long walk from my seat to the microphone today, and for all of us, an incredibly emotional time. I have no words to describe such evil. My heart and our hearts are broken as our city weeps. We have more memoriams than we could have imagined today. For those who are familiar with Job, he's oftentimes called the suffering servant, and he's used around times of great suffering.
 Job chapter 2 gives us an insight I believe we need to use in the morning of our city. When Job's three friends, Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Namathite, heard about all the troubles that had come upon Job, they set out from their homes and met together by agreement to go and sympathize with him and comfort him.
 When they saw him from a distance, they could hardly recognize him. They began to weep aloud, and they tore their robes and sprinkled dust on their heads. Then they sat on the ground with him for seven days and seven nights. No one said a word to him because they saw how great his suffering was." None of us has ever been to a funeral service where for seven days and seven nights the friends
 of the one who was suffering. They just sat quietly. There's something so sober and sacred and sober about those verses for me. As Consul President Pridgen said, it's hard to get to healing until we felt the hurt and grieved. Romans 1215, rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. Make no mistake about this evil murderer as those who enforce our laws have said, Erie County Sheriff,
 Garcia, pure evil, straight up racially motivated hate crime. Our own police commissioner, Gamalia, this is an absolute racist hate crime. This is someone who has hate in their heart, soul, and mind. These killings struck close to home for Deb and me. Our friend and student in the Niagara University class I taught rebuilding the city, Pastor Shep Clark, lost his Aunt Pearl Young to this hate-filled killer.
 Deb and I were able to, and if you know Pastor Shep, he leads with a big heart. And that heart is broken as every family member of every victim's is. Deb and I were able to throw our arms around Pastor Shep and love on him and give him that kind of embrace that I know many people need right now. Some leaders have asked for prayer that our anger be righteous.
 I think I need that prayer too, because my anger can get to be way angry. But I heard a wonderful interview, and I want to close as I go into prayer with the interview, with Mother Eva Doyle, that wonderful columnist for the last 44 years, was this morning on radio, and her words will prep us for prayer. If you didn't hear them, I'd say they're priceless.
 This is what she said. I usually go to church every Sunday morning. I'm a member of First Shiloh Baptist Church. I got up Sunday morning and I hesitated about going to church. I said, I don't know if I'm going to go to church. Then I said this to myself, you know what? We can't live in fear. We can't be hiding behind the curtains and peeking out the windows thinking somebody's going to come down the street and shoot us. So I got up, put on my clothes and went to church.
 And I'm so glad I did because we had prayer. We came together as a congregation and many of the black churches had prayer. That's one of the things I strongly believe. Our faith, belief in God, and our prayers are going to help us get through this awful time. Susan Rose asked, is that how we move forward? Is that maybe the first step? Mother Doyle, I believe that because it got me, I believe that because it got me out of the house. Let's pray together.
 Father, as I think of these words from Job, my heart is overcome and overwhelmed. When they saw how the physical toll that the suffering that Job was going through took on his body, they barely recognized their friend. Lord, I know that in this city right now, we've got people that we can barely recognize them. Their hurt is so overwhelmingly strong.
 They're just barely holding on. And you said you're the God of all comfort. Would you move in close as a father can? And you, especially as a faithful father, do hug them, love them, step into their emptiness, their loss, their grief, their suffering. Father, we do pray now for the city. Lord, I thank you for the voices that I've heard, some from these very councilmen,
 that have come to microphones and said words that stirred the right part of me and the citizens of this city. Lord, give us right and righteous words in the midst of so much hate. Lord, I recognize that the process now begins and it'll bring up for all of these victims' families way too much pain as it proceeds in the legal system.
 But Lord, I ask that justice be done, governmental justice and your justice, oh God, let it prevail. And Father, for those today that can't imagine going through yet another night, sleepless, traumatized, nightmares that are happening, all they saw, all they felt, all they witnessed.
 Lord, even now, speak deep into their spirit. Deep, deep, deep. Your precious love in the midst of all the crisis and all the pain. Draw especially close to each of them, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Council members, you can take a seat. The staff has prepared a presentation. If anyone feels uncomfortable watching this presentation, we understand.
 Thank you. We read into the record the names of Aaron Salter, Ruth Whitfield, Pearl Young, Celestine Chaney, Roberta Drury, Haywood Patterson, Margus Morrison, Andre McNeil, Catherine Massey. We read into the record, although we do not have the names, those who were
 injured and lived through their injuries. Council members, memoriams. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You should be okay. Mr. Chair, the city of Buffalo has gone through a considerable tragedy, and my heart goes out to all of those families who have been impacted firsthand by this heinous tragedy.
 racist, white supremacist act of evil. My prayers go out to all of the families. My heart goes out to the community where an individual who was indoctrinated with hate came to our community and intentionally disrupted and interrupted and violated our way of life. Mr. Chair, Buffalo is strong,
 but that does not mean Buffalo is not hurting. We feel an immense amount of pain. We are literally seething, but the anger that we feel, and I would hope that the community of Buffalo hears my heart, but the anger that we feel, my prayer is to allow that anger to motivate us into action. We have people who have been disenfranchised,
 We have people who are living lives marginalized. We need to ensure as a city and as a community come together and do something. We've been partnering. We've been distributing food. We've been having plans made for various homegoing services. But we have to do more as a community. And even though our strength is
 was made into our weakness in this instance. And by that, I mean our strength being that we are very close. We are very tight-knit. We are very small, but strong. And because of the density of African American people living on the east side of Buffalo, because of our tight-knit community, because all of us know all of us, our strength was made into our weakness.
 Now we have to make sure our strength is our strength. And the way Buffalo comes back from this is how we've come back from everything. And that's coming back together because we're stronger together and we're better together. So my appeal to the city of Buffalo is to not operate in silos. Let's not try to clout grab here and clout grab there.
 Let's work together for the benefit of the community. We all have our personal issues, personal differences. But in these times, I understand family has its infighting. I know that families fight, but families fight. One thing about our community is brothers and sisters might fight, cousins might fight, but don't you mess with my family.
 Don't you mess with my cousins. And don't you talk about my mama. This community has to come together. And all of those who are watching or listening, my appeal is to not try and do something on your own, but find someone who's already doing what you want to do and partner. And let's come together because together we're stronger and together we're better. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 any others councilman thank you mr president this has been a horrific week last couple of days and we've seen this happen across the country many times but you never think it's going to happen to you and then when it happens you're in shock and disbelief and you just can't believe it and i know when it first happened you just see names then you see pictures
 But today I was watching the local news and I thanked them for what they've been doing and giving us insight on these families and these individuals. They were more than just a name. I saw the story about Miss Celestine Chaney and I saw the pictures in her home of all of her family and her children. And then I saw her sons and her grandchildren talk about her and how much she meant to them. And when you see those stories, it deepens the cut.
 You know, when it's just a picture, it's like, oh, it's just a picture. But when you hear the stories I saw when you had our former fire commissioner in your arms as he heard about his mother, that hurts. And although it wasn't my mother, it could have been my mother. It could have been my uncle. It could have been my cousin. It could have been a friend of mine.
 And because Buffalo is a close-knit community, as you said so eloquently on a number of shows you've been on, we know one another. And one of my dear friends I worked with at the bank, her cousin, her family member was gunned down. He was one of the ones who was killed. Another good gentleman I went to school with, his family member was killed when we were at the event with President Biden. So these things, these wounds are deep and it could make us hate.
 It could really make you hate when you hear these stories and you see these young people grieving because they lost their grandmother. But I want to think I'm going to give this honor to my aunt who wrote something because I called her and she was just grieving. I don't know if she knew of anyone, but she wrote something. And I think Dr. King tried to get to us on this matter that we can't do eye for eye.
 and that we have to love. Because not all people are mean, not all white people are evil. There are some, but there are many who care and many who are hurt just as much as we are hurt. And all they will tell you, I don't understand like you do, but I hurt like you do. I was talking to our US attorney and she talked about her daughter.
 And when she does a examination, I guess she's going for forensics. And she said, when you pull back the skin, we all have the same things inside of us. So it's easy to hate, but I don't want us to hate. I want us to get to action. And it's not about words. It's really about making sure we stand up against those white supremacists and those who spill those ideologies. Before your story last night on CNN with Don Lemon,
 they showed about a white man who was an Uber driver. There were two people who got in his vehicle and started talking about, oh, we have a white driver. He said, well, we have white driver, but what does that have to do with anything? He said, well, we didn't want the N word driving us. He said, you get out my vehicle. You get out my vehicle. The things you've been talking about taking a stand,
 It's what we have to do, each of us. That's not who we are. And so let's not let those people get away with that.
 Let's put them in their place. Let's put them in the corner. Let's put them outside of the majority because many of us love and care about anyone that gets hurt. There are many of my friends who are Caucasian who have emailed me. I'm so sorry that what happened to you. Even some of those folks in, I believe, Broome County, when they interviewed them, talk about this was despicable and this individual is right where he needs to be.
 They're not all like that, but sometimes we can cast that net and say everybody's like, well, no, everybody's not like that. So I'm going to say this and I'm going to read this into the record because I thought it was so appropriate. And I think my Aunt Muriel, she said, I refuse to believe that there is so much more hate in the world than there is love. It's not for Black people to be under constant suspicion and attack, but for such a heinous, contrived, murderous attack.
 to befall my community has truly broken my heart, but not my spirit. I have many friends who are not people of color who join us in our fight to be looked at as human beings. We bleed like others do. We hurt like others do. We love like others do. And we know that not everyone hates us. I won't let this take my joy, color my view of beauty that's still in the world,
 For those of you who are my friends and may not come from my community or are a person of color, let me and mine hear your voice of support of our never-ending plight to be seen as human. I love you all. Be safe and better days are ahead. Those are the messages we must communicate, that there are better days.
 But as these families grieve, it's our responsibility to hold them up and do something about this. As I was interviewed today, I said we cannot continue to go on the path that we're going. You know, I think about Emmett Till. I think about Medgar Evers. I think about Dr. Martin Luther King, the tragedies that came upon us with violence and we've not done enough.
 So thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me to say those words and my prayers and sincere condolences to those families for their lives have been changed forevermore. Thank you, Council President. Like everyone here today, I was absolutely devastated.
 for the victims, the family members, the friends of Saturday's tragic events, and devastated for the larger African-American community who was targeted by this evil person. And as an elected official, and more specifically a white elected official, I think it's incumbent upon me and others to do more, more than we've been doing.
 And I pledge that I will do more. But in the interim, I need to speak to the larger community. And we were at a press conference yesterday where I referenced, you know, something I heard you say the day before. And I think it's incredibly pointed is that the African-American community has to be allowed to grieve. And as a member of the white community, I would plead with other members of that community
 not to try and tell the African American community how to grief. Let them own their grief and process it the way they want to process it, the way the African American community wants to process it. And while doing that, I think there's another couple of things we need to do. The first being not let this person who perpetrated this evil off the hook by referring to him as a kid.
 This is not a kid this this person was evil. And this person was mature enough to drive several hours here and purchase the weapons and the protection for himself, and he was mature enough to think to broadcast it for the whole world to see so he's not a kid.
 And I've seen the Buffalo, I believe it was the Buffalo News, refer to him as a kid. He's not a kid. And I would say that there are people in this city who've been accused of or alleged of gun violence who aren't referred to as kids or are officially and instantly labeled murderers.
 and not referred to as kids who are the exact same age demographic. They just might not look like the person who perpetrated the evil over the weekend. So do not let them off the hook by referring to him as a kid. And finally, do not refer to this as a mental health situation. I do not believe that. I've personally been touched by mental health situations in my life, and I do not believe that this is the situation. Again, I think you're letting this person off the hook.
 In my opinion, this person brought evil here. They had hate in their heart, racism in their heart, and they intended to bring evil and division to this community. The mental health that we should be worried about is the mental health of the survivors in that store who had to witness what they witnessed, the family members and the friends of the victims of Saturday's horrible events, and as I mentioned, the African-American community as a whole, because the
 Again, as a white elected official and a member of that community, we weren't the ones who were targeted Saturday. The African-American community was targeted Saturday. And that's whose mental health we should be worried about in the coming days and weeks and months. Thank you.
 I think Council Member Friletto is next. Thank you. I just want to pray for all of the victims and their families. It's absolutely horrible to have a white supremacist go to tops and deliberately murder black people at a grocery store that was such an important part to the community, and it's impossible to
 even try understand the grief and emotion that all of the families who have a loved one who is a victim or friend or anyone who witnessed it but it's our prayers are with them and the entire city of buffalo thank you councilman boom
 Thank you, Council President. I just want to start by recognizing, you know, and commending your strength and the leaders of this community, especially the faith-based community who has been putting words to something that is very difficult to speak to right now.
 My heart is with all of the families who experienced this tragedy. Everybody in our community is hurting. I think it's very important that we and myself denounce white supremacy, racism, bigotry, and the evil that that person brought to this community, but it will not define us. And I've heard from many residents from the Lovejoy District just reaching out, how can they help? So Lovejoy stands with the city and we're here to help.
 Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. On Saturday, May 14th, members that were in that top saw the devil himself. And it was an act of terrorism and racism at its absolute worst. And Council Member Wyatt brought up a very,
 a real story that white people probably don't want to admit that they've been in. There's been many times where white Americans have been in a car where they've heard racist remarks, where they've heard people say that. And it's easy due to being uncomfortable to just walk away. That within itself is wrong. And it's incumbent upon all of us white Americans to pull over the car, rip that person out and confront it head on.
 We cannot be silent. That is how this continues. And I've thought a lot deeply of, you know, reading the newspaper and what other municipalities have had to go through just to even bring up the magnitude of mass shootings. Buffalo was the 198th mass shooting of 2022. Think about 198 other communities hurting and that have been targeted because of mass shootings and hate.
 With just over 19 weeks into the year, that averages out to 10 such attacks a week. That tally comes from the Gun Violence Archive and an independent data collection. Such shootings are an American phenomenon. Mass shootings, as is well known, are a common occurrence in the United States.
 we have to act and we have to act as a community. And I give my deepest condolences to those that were lost. And there was one where my neighbors were, wanted to remind me, they came down to my house, three streets up from me is West Tupper. And Kate Massey was for a very long time, a member of the West Tupper Street before she had to move in with family members.
 And West upper is a very interesting street. It's very close. It's very tight knit. And it was actually one of the streets that began the community gardens of neighbors coming together from wherever they were to tend to this garden and Kate Massey was one of those members that tended to the community gardens. That's now, you know, a trendsetter throughout the whole city of Buffalo.
 and a lot of folks on that street have lived there for many years and wanted me to make sure that I said her name and to also connect her name to the Allentown neighborhood. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Colombo. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sure like all of us, when I first heard what had happened on Saturday, I was in utter astonishment and disbelief.
 I'm not sure if it's been processed yet, to be quite honest with you, but I'm trying to understand the senseless tragedy that took our city is just beyond comprehension, but I saw on Facebook a quote that was put up, and it is.
 perhaps the closest that I can say that I feel, Mr. President, towards your community, your community which is hurting so much right now. But I understand that I will never understand
 however, I stand and I stand if you will accept me with you, with your community. I stand for equality for all. I stand against white supremacy. I stand against bigotry. I stand against racism. And as Mr. Nowakowski said,
 We will probably never be, or to paraphrase what he said, we will probably never be in a position where we will be able to stop a truly horrendous, horrible, you know, racist action. But it's those little things that we can do. It's those little things that we can do to stand up and look at each other and see the humanity of every single person that lives in the city of Buffalo, regardless of their race, regardless of their creed, regardless.
 regardless of their culture, regardless of their sex, their orientation, whatever, but the humanity of each and every one of the people that lives in the city. And with that, my condolences to the city of Buffalo in general, but to the African-American community in particular. Thank you. Council Member Rivera. Mr. President, on Sunday, I was invited to the firehouse,
 I didn't know I was going to speak at the firehouse and they had a number of speakers. They had law enforcement talking about an active crime scene, that it was still an active crime scene. You had the district attorney talking about legal processes. You had the state attorney general. You had federal agents. You had people talking about search warrants. You had people talking about hurt and pain. And the only thing that came to mind was wrong.
 Will this stay in our memories? How long will we remember the 10 victims of this horrible crime? Will they be forgotten? Will Buffalo just be another statistic in this country's mass shootings? And I said to myself, we can't stay silent any longer and not speak out against racism and racist terrorists and bigotry and hatred. We don't want to be part of that.
 We weren't part of the hatred and the bigotry. When I got there, I saw how people were embracing each other, helping each other. This person came to this city wanting to create chaos and hatred, and he wanted people to see it over the internet because he felt if more people saw this over the internet, more of these incidents would occur.
 His manifesto was put on the internet. Why? Because he wanted people to read and see how easy it is to kill people of color and to stir that poison within people. And that is something that will continue long after we bury the dead, we grieve and we heal. That will continue unless we speak up, unless we change that.
 So it's sad to say that there's a good possibility that this will happen somewhere else unless we do something. It is time to examine ourselves as a country. How long are we going to allow people to spew hatred on the Internet, talking heads, talking heads?
 replacement theories. How long are we going to hear this over the internet? So that people like this 18 year old could just absorb that and act out on it. Something needs done. And we as elected officials need to speak up. And I'm so happy to hear members of this common council say, we want to be, we want to join in with you.
 So today we all join in with you and your community. We sympathize with all of those and we remember them. And I think that we should do our best not to forget that once these 10 days pass and all the cameras are gone and we're no longer on national news, that they're still remembered.
 and that we don't forget what happened here in Buffalo. That is what's really important, not to forget these victims. So we join with you, we embrace your community, and we will speak up whenever we have an audience. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you to all of you who this council has stood together, every single person on this Common Council during this hard time. I think you referenced the garden
 I bought a house one time and I don't know much about flowers. So when the grass started growing up and there was this area and something was growing up, I didn't know the value of it. So I mowed it down because I just didn't know the value. Next year it came around and I was getting ready to mow it down and one of my neighbors came over and said, you know, the former owners had these beautiful flowers that came up every year. I noticed your flowers were gone.
 And I said, because I really don't know. I don't know what the flowers are. I don't know the value. And this is true. She said, let me take care of the flowers. I'll do it for free so that you don't mow down the beauty. And she did. And what you all just did today, you helped the flowers to grow by saying and giving value to people's lives and saying everything doesn't need to be mowed down. Everything doesn't need to be killed. Thank you, Buffalo Common Council members for standing up.
 so that flowers can grow again. And the children of the deceased, the grandchildren of the deceased, all of those, the husbands, the wives, the aunts, the uncles, your words help the flowers grow. For these names, all of those who have been lost since our last meeting, those who have given their life for our country and other countries, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence.
 Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on May the 3rd, 2022 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Seeing none, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. From the top. Item number one, appoint Chief Diversity Officer. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Norcoast. Item number two, amend designated developer agreement for Douglas. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wayne. Item number three, City of Buffalo Fair Housing Report. Motion to send to City, items three and four. Seconded by Council Member Golomba.
 Item number 5 reported so 222, Byrd. Motion to approve items 5-7. Second by President Pro Temp, Scanlon.
 Item number eight, report is so 33 molar. Motion to send to CD item eight, nine. Second by council member Freelo. Item number 10, appoint hub program manager. Motion to send to civil service items 10 and 11. Second by council member White. Item number 12, controller's budget response. Motion to send finance items 12 and 13. Second by council member Bowman.
 Item number 14, appoint coordinator for Office of Automated. Motion to send to civil service items 14 and 15. My council member, Noah Koski. Item number 16, permission to have set grant for national grant for tree planting at Riverside Park. Motion to approve items 16 through 20. Second by council member, Wingo. Item number 21, report of bids for Kleinhan's Music Hall roof.
 Motion to approve items 21 and 22. Second by council member Golombi. Item number 23, Samantha Crump, 18,500. Motion. 23, claims. It's going to claim. Motion. They're going to claim. Motion to send claims committee items 23 through 39. Second by council member White.
 Item number 40, food store license, 91 Grant Street. Motion to send legislation. Item number 41, food store license, 326 Military. Motion to approve. Item number 42, food store license, 325 Niagara Street. Motion to approve with conditions items 42 and 43. Item number 44, garbage collector license.
 Motion to approve items 44 through 48. Second by Council Member White. Item number 49, rename the Oak Grove and Blaine Triangle to E Inhale Park. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Winger.
 Item number 50, items returned to the city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 50 through 54. Second by President Pro Temsken. Item number 55, appoint senior data processing equipment operator. Motion to send the civil service items 55 and 56. Second by Council Member Glumbert. Miscellaneous, item number 57, BFSA.
 April 2022 report. Motion to receive and file items 57 and 58. Second by Council Member Noll-Costell. Item number 59, recommended revisions to the city's living wage law. Motion sent to legislation. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number 60, written public comment submission. Okay.
 Motion to receive and file item 60 and 61. Second by Council Member White. Item number 62, trap neuter return efforts. Motion to send to CD item 62 through 64. Second by Council Member Bowman. Petitions item number 65, special use 97, aka 99 rotten for assembly.
 Motion sent to Legislation City Planning Board, items 65 through 69. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, appoint real estate maintenance manager. Motion is to receive and file item number one. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number two, appoint coordinator of office automatic. Motion is to approve items two through and including six. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item number seven, certificate of appointment for complaint court.
 Motion is to receive and file items number 7 and number 8. Second by the Majority Leader. Finance, item number 9, Certificate of Determination, Sale and Insurance of General Improvement. Motion to receive and file numbers 9 and 10. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Community Development, item number 11, reported sale 202 box.
 Motion is to approve with conditions items 11 through and including 15. Second by Council Member Wingo. Able number 16, DBA for 226, 232, 236, and 238 High Street. Mr. President, is that yours? I'm sorry. No, it's yours. I'm sitting next to committee. Who is that?
 Yeah, so can we, 16 we can receive and file, and 17 if we can recommit. But I will say for the record, and as a matter of fact, no, we can move on this. I'm going to move on this. There's some in the community who have said that they wanted to speak on it. We've had it in committee for several weeks. The issue on this is that
 Some people feel that we are not charging enough for this piece of property. Here is the issue, and I want to publicly state it. St. John Fruitbelt Community was given the go-ahead to purchase this land before there was a moratorium in the Fruitbelt, and they put a down payment on it.
 When the moratorium happened, they were under the impression that they could no longer do their project because of the moratorium, which was not true. But the city held their money and it was a significant amount of money.
 So to me, it is unfair to now go with the prices of today when they were actually in the pipeline and should have completed it. And it was only because they thought they couldn't. So I'm OK in us staying at that price because of the fairness. So we had invited people who were against this.
 They did not come to the last committee meeting. The letter is on file from Ms. Peterson. We have worked with Ms. Peterson in the past, and she has really helped us to look at values of property. But in this instance, I wanted to be very public of why I feel that it would be unfair to now say to them, oh, now you've got to pay this price when we had already given them a price. So I'm fine with moving this forward.
 Okay, so item number 16, we shall receive and file? Yes. And then 17, we can approve. So motion is to receive and file 16? Yes. I'm sorry, you're waiting for a second. Second by Council Member Frioletto. And motion is to approve item number 17. Second by Council Member Waco. Thank you. Legislation, item number 18, Fulster License 2577, Bailey. Motion to recommit. Okay.
 uh second by council member white item number 19 booster license 905 clinton motion to approve with conditions items 1920 and 21. i'm sorry second by council member council item number 22 209 comp stop motion to recommit say black councilman item 23 special use 1368 herder motion to approve with conditions by council member columbus
 Resolutions, item number 70, Allie Turner Peace Walk Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 71, Fortness Amendment to Chapter 20 Budgeting. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Milakowski.
 item number 72 fee waiver for bpo at north park community school motion to approve items 72 and 73 second by council member fearlow item number 74 addressing concerns with post-primary elections motion to adopt item 74 through 76 second by councilmember columbia who has the floor thank you mr president um on item 74 addressing concerns with post uh primary elections um it seems so
 it just pales in comparison to everything but unfortunately um it's going to be an issue that's going to hit us when the new fiscal year begins on as of right now it looks like there will be two primaries um coming up uh uh one in june and one potentially in august um
 that we may or may not have the funds for as a city. And what this does is it asks for New York State to come up with the funds because they basically quite honestly, made this mistake and threw it on our lap. Also, it goes a step further and it requests that the primary be moved back into September.
 In places like New York City where, you know, sometimes an entire councilmanic district is one city block that is in an entire complex, an apartment complex, and it's simple to go out and get signatures, whether it's in January, February, March.
 June, July, or whatever time of the year it is. In places like Buffalo, it's pretty hard to go out and get signatures in the months of February and March. When we have a typical Buffalo winter,
 People don't want to answer their doors rightfully so, and so this resolution actually goes on to say that you know because of the missteps with this year's elections having the mixed federal and state elections that they would look into going back to a September primary election.
 And the month of June being the beginning of the political season, which I think is more beneficial to allow more candidates to get on the ballot and for democracy to be more open than doing it in the winter months of February and March. Thank you. Thank you. It's very confusing right now.
 Very confused. Item number 77, permission to conduct the 65th annual Allentown. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 78, reduce sunlight pollution to protect migratory birds.
 Adopt motion to adapt second by councilmember. No, Akoski. Thank you. Mr. Chair I was able to co-sponsor this with councilmember David Rivera and the resolution speaks to the migration period of Birds and how they are important to our ecosystem But also speaks to the fact that a lot of lighting that we have in the city of Buffalo Especially within our municipal buildings actually erodes the path
 pattern in the migration patterns of birds and what that actually does to our ecosystem and other birds here in the city of Buffalo but also in western New York so this speaks to the, the point of that if municipal buildings like an Erie County the state or city buildings were able to reduce or eliminate lights.
 when they're not in use at night, that it could greatly impact the migration of birds and the ecosystem of them. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next item. Item number 79, a play of members to the community police advisory committee. Motion to adapt, remainder to CD. Second by council member Bollman.
 Item number 80, discussion on DPW garbage can cage policy. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Did we just do item 79? Yes, sir. Can I go back to 79? That's the Police Advisory Committee? Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today, we are glad to introduce resolution that confirms the first members of the Community Police Advisory Committee. After weeks of receiving application developing a work group,
 who reviewed the applications, resumes, and conducted interviews. We now have 11 members for the advisory committee. All of the members listed in the resolution are prime examples of the experts and community members we have in our city and who are dedicated to bridge the gap between the police department and the community.
 As stated in the original resolution that established this advisory committee, there are at least four members who have professional backgrounds in mental health, law, criminal justice, and personal restorative justice. These 11 members listed in this resolution will be tasked to listen to the community and research and develop proven policy changes that can be presented to our police department.
 I also want to take time to thank all of the previous members of the old police advisory body for the work and dedication that resulted in numerous policy changes within the police department. And now it is my hope that within the new with this new community advisory committee we will soon see a better relationship between police department and the community that I know is possible.
 I'm excited that in the coming weeks, they will be hosting their first meeting. As always, we will make sure the community is aware of all their future meetings. I want to give a special thanks to the working group that was comprised of members of central staff in my office. Let me thank Pedro Gonzalez,
 Taisha St. James, Valerie Malia, and of course, our Chief of Staff, Jim Montour, for allocating the resources that allowed us to conduct all these meetings. With that, I want to present the next Police Oversight Committee meeting so they'll be present and we can present them to the full body. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir.
 Item number 80, discussion on DPW garbage can cage policy. Motion to adopt, remainder to CD. Second by Council Member Scanlon, present pro tem. Item number 81, wave fees for Juneteenth Festival. Motion to approve items 81 through 82. Okay. Now 83.
 Yeah, he can approve 81 to 83. 83. Yes. Second by Councilman Wingo who has the floor. I'm sorry. I was going to ask to go back to item 73. I want to put the motion. Okay. We'll come back to 73. You have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Item 81 is waiving the fees for the Juneteenth Festival. Again, the Juneteenth is one of the largest celebrations of Africans in America and the country.
 We made history by ensuring that Juneteenth was a national holiday, and it is. And we ought to respect the fact that it is a national holiday. The Juneteenth Festival in Buffalo, New York, particularly, is one of the largest in the country. And the Juneteenth Festival celebrates the freeing of the last Africans in America, the last enslaved people, on June 19, 1865. Now...
 We understand the current climate in our community here in the city of Buffalo because of the travesty that occurred. And people are not coming back out en masse. But because of the faith in Buffalo and the leadership of Jennifer Earl Jones, the president for Juneteenth Incorporated Buffalo, who was...
 made president with the confidence of the current board, following in the footsteps of Mr. Marcus Brown, decided to go on with Juneteenth, despite the damages to the building and despite the horrific violence that the city of Buffalo, particularly the African-American community, endured. I want the community to know that if you are...
 going to the Juneteenth Festival, please know that we have had several conversations with law enforcement and law enforcement agencies from all over are coming to ensure the safety of our celebration of Africans in America and African-American people and Black folks. So if you are going to come out and celebrate the Juneteenth,
 Do it with all of the pride that you've done in the past. And just please know that we are going to do everything we possibly can to ensure your safety and to make sure that you feel safe. Thank you for these times, Chair. Thank you. You want to go back? Yes. Mr. Chair, the correct motion was to adopt. Which number? Item 79. Item 79.
 All right. Did you call out a different motion? I believe we adapted with remainder to CD, or was it just adapt? No, you adopted and sent the remainder to CD. No, it's just an adaption. All right. So let's rescind it and make sure- Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Motion is now to adapt. Second by Council Member Colombo. Council Member Zinni, now- Oh, sorry. Hold on. Go ahead.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers 13th Floor City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for information on how to attend.
 Committee on Civil Service will be Tuesday, May 24, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, May 24, 2022 at 10 a.m.
 Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, May 24, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, May 24, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special Committees. Committee on Education will be Tuesday, May 24, 2022 at 11 a.m. Committee on Claims is Tuesday, Wednesday, correction, May 25, 2022 at 1 p.m.
 Budget workshops will begin Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 9am and the room has changed from room 1417 to council chambers to better serve the public with technology to stream.
 On behalf of the commission on reapportionment, public hearing on reapportionment will be Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 5.30 p.m. Taking place as well in council chambers. That's what the discussion was, whether you had the announcement for reapportionment. And just before I go to council members, it's going to be a long day tomorrow because obviously we've had to push.
 all of everything back for the budget. And because we still have to settle this budget by Friday,
 We should prepare ourselves to do whatever we have to do to take care of people's business. We'll meet tomorrow and then start meeting with council members so that we can make whatever amendments that we feel need to be made and move this budget forward. I think that I'm pretty confident we can get this done by close of business on Friday. It'll be a long few days, but do what we do. Do the people's work.
 councilman wingo okay mr chair thank you um just to ensure that the city of buffalo whoever is watching understands that uh tops is making an effort to ensure that folks still have their groceries and their prescriptions we want you to know that the tops on jefferson has partnered
 with the Resource Council of Western New York. The address to the Resource Council of Western New York is 347 East Ferry Street, right across from Lonsdale. It's at the Old Y, right over at Perkins Park. You all know where that is.
 If you frequented Tops and you need groceries, we met some folks after the president's address today who said that they almost have no more groceries in their cabinets. If you are willing to volunteer, you can call my office at 716-851-5145 and donate your services to either drop off groceries and or to help with distribution.
 at the Resource Council of Western New York will be free food. The food is free. You do not have to pay for the food. The food is free. We have contributions coming in from all over Western New York for the families of the east side of Buffalo who have been hurt by this horrific incident. So we want you to know that the food is free. We heard that folks are selling the food. We find that you're selling the food. We will send whatever law enforcement department after you to make sure that you pay for it.
 After that, you also have folks who are wanting to contribute money. Any monetary donations need to go to the Resource Council of Western New York because they are funneling all of the resources to make sure that the people actually get what they need for free. There are also folks who are looking to help out with
 funeral costs. If you are looking to help out with funeral costs, you can also reach out to the Resource Council of Western New York and talk to Dr. Catherine Roberts, who is there to make sure that everything gets to the folks who need it. If you want to volunteer, we have also set it up for Feed More Western New York and for the Resource Council of Western New York to ensure that if you want to volunteer your time, you can
 that as well by visiting or calling the Resource Council of Western New York. We really want to try to funnel these assets so that we're not working in silos. We want everyone to work together. We want you to call Katherine Roberts. We want you to call Terry King of Saving Grace Ministries, who has been coordinating with Mike Patty at TOPS. We want you to call all of these people. We want you to coordinate
 with the folks who are doing the works on a large scale so that we can have a greater impact to the people who need it. Now, again, if you need the office phone number, it's 851-5145, and we'll be happy to assist and aid anyone who needs anything. Please believe that there has been an
 overwhelming response, not just from Western New York, not just from Buffalo Nians in different parts of the city. But there has been an overwhelming response to this tragedy from people all across the country. As far as United Kingdom, we have been receiving emails and phone calls. I'm pretty sure all of you have. So we want you to know though that if you do, you know, let me give you the number for the resource council. The resource council is at 3 47 East.
 ferry in the city of Buffalo. That's 347 East Ferry. And if anyone has any announcements, I'll look up the resource councils. Somebody look up the resource council phone number for me. But the public just texted me and asked for the phone number. We would like to kind of try to funnel all of this so that we're not operating in silos again, so that we can increase impact. And the number is 716-783-8259. That's 783-783-8259.
 8259. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And the mayor on yesterday announced that the city is asking if you are going to give financial donations that they have created a fund through the Buffalo Niagara partnership with Dottie Gallagher. So in between those places, I think the message of the day is just don't donate anywhere where you don't know anything.
 who the organization is. You should donate to a reputable organization. And then finally, for me, on Wednesday, our food pantry is open at True Bethel. It's the same type of situation. Matter of fact, really funded and
 supplied by the same organization organizations at 907 East Ferry. I believe it starts at 11. You can call the church at 895-8222 and it's free. Uh
 And so we want to make sure that people are able to get groceries who are in need all over the city. Just to piggyback, Mr. Chair, you're absolutely right. There is also shuttle service. And I meant to say this. There's so much that we can say about all of the help that we've been receiving. But there's shuttle service at Jefferson and Riley to the tops over on Elmwood. If you still want to...
 go grocery shopping, you can still do that. I know that a lot of folks used to walk to the tops on Jefferson, but if you go to Jefferson and Riley, there will be a shuttle that is going to the tops on Elmwood all day continuously, doesn't stop. So the wait time is approximately 15 minutes. So just know that you won't have to wait or you shouldn't have to wait any more than 15 minutes when you arrive at that place.
 to get a shuttle there. And then of course, they'll be going around and around. So once you're done shopping, they will bring you back. And there is also folks there to help you get on the shuttle and to get off the shuttle. Now as it relates to helping you get your bags back home, we ain't forget that part out yet. But for the most part, Mr. Chair, there is a shuttle to get you from Jefferson and Riley to Elmwood. Also, they're delivering prescriptions
 So if you have prescriptions, please call and they will also be with ensuring that you receive your medicine. Thank you. We thank all those who put that together. I was talking to me. It was actually a big bus out there to the driver yesterday and said that people are utilizing that. So there's a lot of organizations who are working together to make sure they're taken care of, including Topps Market and now Wegmans.
 I got a call from Wegmans on my way in saying we want to do something and we want to do something now. So that was like super cool to hear Wegmans say we want to help the people in that area. So Councilor, or who was it? I'm sorry. Councilor Rizkaila. Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to take a minute to thank each and every one of my colleagues.
 for the kind words and the kind actions you've all expressed to me and my family in the wake of my father's passing a couple weeks ago but not just to the to my colleagues here on the council but to the staff and to uh people throughout city hall um it really has been a lot to my family in particular i wanted to thank you council president council member wingo council member glombeck for the extraordinarily kind words you spoke before last meeting about my father um you
 I can't tell you how consoling it was to particularly my mother and my extended family. So I just didn't want to take a minute to thank you all for the kind words, the kind texts, calls, cards, personal interactions, attending the funeral, all of it. So it really has meant a lot to me and to my family. So I thank each and every one of you. That's a great way to end. Thank you. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Scanlon.