Council Member Farrell-Lytle. Here. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Glombeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Warren. Present. This stand for pledge. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible,
 with the liberty and justice of God. As we remain standing, our council chaplain will introduce our esteemed guest, who in my time here on the council is the first time that we have had the Roman Catholic bishop of our area to grace our chambers. Thank you. Bishop. We welcome you here, for having the people of all the practice.
 This is being paid for. This will be going on public access dozens of times over the next few weeks. So whatever you say.
 Careful what you say then, Mike. Bishop Malone is from Massachusetts, born there in Salem, Massachusetts. It gives the year I won't give it. Ordained a priest to the Archdiocese of Boston in 72, and May 29, 2012, Pope Benedict named Bishop Malone the 14th Bishop of Buffalo. Lots of official details on the sheet, but I want to say to you that I think we –
 are braced and blessed to do it like this big thing. Having worked with him now for a period of time, and some of the others in this chamber who have, I have found it a joy and pleasure to do it. And the servant heart that he brings to Darren the office is something that each of us can learn from. I just thank you for leading us today.
 Thank you for a very, very gracious introduction as well. It's a great joy to be with you. It's an honor for me. I hope it's not offensive if I say the only way I've been to the 13th floor is to renew my dog's license down the other end. Al said this is a much nicer ambiance than that end of the building. But it's wonderful to be with you. Thank you so much, and thank you for all you do to the members of the council and all of our public and to us all. Thank you.
 Shall we pray? Thank you. He's a Roman Catholic, he can do it all. He can multitask. We pray, O God of might and wisdom and justice, to whom authority is rightly administered, laws are enacted, and judgment decreed, assist with your Holy Spirit of counsel and fortitude, counsel President Pridgen and each member of our common council assembled here,
 that their leadership may be conducted with righteousness for the good of all in the city of Buffalo. We pray for these Common Council members who are elected to guard and promote our welfare, that they may be enabled by your powerful protection to discharge their duties with honesty and ability.
 Let the light of your divine wisdom direct the deliberations of these leaders and shine forth in all their proceedings and decisions, framed for our rule and government, so that they may tend to the preservation of peace, the promotion of happiness, equity, and justice. God of love and justice, of healing and reconciliation, of unity and peace.
 Guide and empower us with your grace as together we continue to work towards a new shared future in our beloved Buffalo. Challenge us, O Lord, to fill the gaps in racial equity and to expand opportunities in all the neighborhoods where our good people live and work. Direct us so that every member of our community can learn, work, and contribute to a respectful and thriving community.
 May all of our residents have the opportunity to participate in order to fulfill their potential and achieve prosperity. We commend to your unbounded mercy all of our fellow citizens throughout this city, that they may be preserved in unity and in that peace which the world cannot give. In a particular way, we pray for all those affected by the ongoing opioid crisis within our region,
 that those afflicted with this powerful addiction may be released from its grip through rehabilitation and healing. We remember, too, those who have died from overdoses and all those who mourn these tragic loss. During National Police Week, we take time to remember our men and women in blue. We ask for your protection over all police and law enforcement officers. Father in Heaven,
 Please give them the strength, the courage, the perseverance necessary to endure the challenges and the dangers they face on a daily basis in order to preserve and protect the common good. Dear God, grant these brave men and women your almighty protection as they continue their lives of service and sacrifice. May you also strengthen their family with the knowledge that you are always with their loved one.
 With confident faith and loving hope, we make this prayer in your holy name. Amen. Amen. We just asked, will the bishop stay right after the memorials? We'll have a boot camp with all of the council members. Memorials, council member? Council member Lumbeck? Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Riverside neighborhood lost Mr. Bob Schatzer, very, very active in the community. I went to school with his sons, All Saints and Riverside High School. He passed away after a lengthy battle with cancer. He's going to be missed by his wife and his children and by the many people that participated in the Club 49ers Easter egg hunt. He was one of the key guys for many, many years going out into Riverside Park and hiding the eggs and,
 you know, holding the kids back until 12 noon when they would be allowed to run out and collect everything. Also, we lost Steve Lenchik, active FEM that's post in our neighborhood. His sister Carol works here in City Hall.
 He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his friends and his family in the Riverside and Black Rock area. And last but certainly not least, Wayne Petko passed away. Sadly, he pre-deceased his mom, Frida, who's a wonderful, wonderful woman active in the Black Rock West Turtle neighborhood. I wish condolences on them and their families.
 Mr. White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to announce the passing of Ms. Julia Lee Watson. She was a long-standing member of the University District who passed on Saturday. And most of her neighbors on Bigfoot Avenue referred to her as Ms. Julia. She was 90 years old. Very sharp woman. She's...
 She was very active in the block clubs. When Councilmember Russell was here, she gave her a Senior Citizens Award because she was so active. She spoke her mind. She truly was a kind and caring, a selfish person.
 She was very close to Doris, who's in my office, and she was very civic-minded. She always reminded folks of the right to vote. I met her a couple of times, and she was just genuine. And, you know, I hope that when it's my time that I have that same figure that she had at 90 years old. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? Yes.
 The Ellicott District and the City of Buffalo has lost a big write-up about them in the paper. Mr. Marshall W. Young, who served several times as the president of the seniors at the William Emslie Y, among a whole host of other things. The Ellicott District has actually lost two
 very significant members who worked hard for their community. And the same thing, who did not just make it in life, but made a part of their life their community. And he'll be funeralized tomorrow at the St. John Church. And so our hearts and prayers go out to all of those who have been mentioned today
 and of course to our men and women all over this world who have given their life for the freedom of not only our country, but for the freedom of others since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. You may be seated. Council members, if you want to come so that we can get Bishop back to battle. I'm here to listen to you and to check your answers.
 I don't know what's going on. I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing it. I don't know what's happening, so I'm just asking you to make sure that they're hearing
 Thank you to the public for being patient with us. We have a presentation by Councilmember Franczak. We have a mic for Councilmember Franczak. We're getting for him right now. Mike. Thank you. Thank you.
 Well, this is with great pleasure. I think that our group is better. We have a number of members, our family, our friends, our people, our people, with our group of newspapers, they always say, that's kind of the
 by Star Valentino, Buffalo born and bred in the entertainment business in Atlanta, now New York, from Walls Accus, was a wonderful person, and he was also an artist, a list, as I know, and some of us may remember him for a lot of the youth in the city where he was.
 for school, for productive activities. At that time, he started as Dragon Dance. Dragon Dance was a team of artists who used to put on exhibitions of martial arts here in Corolla. That was very helpful. That program had come into those demonstrations. All the kids were wrapped in pens, all the artists, kids. Well, what he has been doing, that he is the national founder
 something good for your city. This is the national movement. It recognized four cities throughout the United States. The FOMO recognized them. This delegation, Mr. Poloncar, we've got mayors that elected from the United States that recognized something that needs to be looked at.
 The neighbor that has the physical injury they can't you know how long the grass now That's the grass or do something that is the milk human kindness and to make that To do every day You guys doing
 First, I like apologize to the council. If y'all remember me from 2012, I didn't show up because I had a little problem in Atlanta with my daughter and my mother had to accept one of these proclamations from Councilman David Francik. So I just want to make sure. You know what that is, kind of what I'm battling of lately.
 I'd like to thank David Kleinzik. He's been in my corner for a long time. I've worked in many of his districts, Lighthouse School Program, Recreation Awaiting. He recommended me for a teacher's aide position, bus aide position. He did a whole lot for me as far as my career is concerned. So I owe a lot to this gentleman standing right here. I think he deserves a round of applause.
 I would like to thank Do Something Good for a Neighbor Day. I started this back in 2009. And it just happened to come to me and I just, Steve Harvey would say, I jumped. And I never knew that over 100 cities proclamations from mayors all
 Congressman Brian Higgins. New York, Albany, Rochester, Syracuse. So proud to say. Closing again, I'd like to thank my two friends here. Jeffrey Warwick, you guys probably know him as the push-up game. Me and Jeffrey has been doing our thing since 2008.
 You guys probably don't know, but Councilman David Franzik knows we used to perform together.
 clubs, nightclubs, concerts, convention centers. We did the hottest things in Buffalo back in the day. I got a lot of love for my man showing up for me representing. I also have my friend Reggie Warmly who showed up today. One of my best friends. Actually, both those guys were literally my best friends. Reggie Warmly was the guy I went to McKinley High School with. Very well respected. We still hang to this day. Thank you guys for showing up.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you, Councilmember. We also have a presentation by Councilmember Ulysses Wingle. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, everyone. Making sure you heard me. Is this thing on? Listen, and again, it seems like great things are coming out of McKinley High School. Today it brings me great privilege.
 to give honor and recognition to a young man by the name of Miles Haynes. Now, I was introduced to him just a few moments ago, but the story that I was told of this young man resonated with me, and I couldn't help but to ask that they bring Mr. Haynes in so that we could publicly honor him and put this recognition on file. I will speak this to you.
 A common council certificate of recognition. Miles Haynes, a junior at McKinley High School, was recently introduced as one of 35 students in Erie County to be selected to attend the American Legion Boys State Summertime Program.
 This unique program for rising high school seniors is fabricated to mirror the structure and operation of New York State government while providing professional training in citizenship, leadership, character development, and other things. He was nominated by his principal and school guidance counselor for consistently demonstrating outstanding leadership, academics, character, loyalty, and service.
 Not only in the classroom though, but also on the baseball diamond and the football field as well. I'm going to have to show them some stuff a little bit later. Maybe not. Miles was selected as a delegate through a rigorous interview process by American Legion, Kisington Post, number 708.
 His hard work and determination has allowed him the opportunity to travel to SUNY Mooresville in June 2017, where he will join over 1,000 other boys, state delegates, for this great honor. Now, from what I understand, this is a very, very exclusive program for a very, very select few people. And Mr. Haynes' current average in high school is 101.
 I didn't know that was possible, but he actually achieved a 101 average last marking period. And any time a young person or a student has that type of discipline, has that type of commitment to being successful, I think it deserves not only just to be recognized, but we all should be pushing and lifting him up and making sure that he achieves everything he wants to achieve in his life. So I gave him my personal cell phone number.
 so that he can call me if he should ever need anything. Because young people like this are the rising stars that we need to make sure that they know that we will support them. And whatever you do, that's positive. And whatever you do, that's helping somebody else go to where you potentially go. Miles, it is my privilege and honor to support you in everything you do from this day forward. And anything you need from me and this council, you let us know, man. We'll do whatever we can to support you. Thank you.
 I would just like to thank everybody for being supportive. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Very good presentations. Thank you to both.
 And we know that you all might not want to stay for the whole council meeting. So as I say in church, you are dismissed if you like. Thank you very much. There's a lot of church going on today. The bishop, everybody here, goodness. It's a blessed house.
 Yeah, maybe they came to pray for it. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on May 2, 2017 are approved. All of the late files are before us. Trusting everyone has had a chance to look at the late files. Are there any objections to the late files? There are no objections to the late files. We'll hear the entire agenda that is before us. And I take it away. You're right.
 To object to the late file when it comes before you. We're going to be taking two items out of order. Majority Leader? Mr. Chairman, motion to take items 74 first, 70, and 78 out of order. All right. 70, 70. You said 74. 74. 70. 70. And then 78. Out of order. Item 74, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 337, Preservation Standards. Motion to approve. Thank you.
 Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 70, appoint Ruth D. Bryant to the Buffalo Preservation Board. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Is that an adopt? It's an adopt. And Mrs. Ruth Bryant, who is...
 A retired assistant dean of the School of Architecture at UB is in our chambers. She will be, right now, there is not an African American on the preservation board. We welcome her. She has been very active in our community, and we welcome her to the preservation board.
 into a spot that really had expired some years ago, and this ordinance amendment allows the council to be able to pick out great people like Ruth. Without this amendment, we would not have been able to put someone who was an assistant dean of architecture on the preservation board
 simply because she lived a few streets away from a historic district, which absolutely makes no sense. Can we welcome her to our chambers and to the preservation room?
 I just wanted everybody to see you before you start coming in here telling us what to do and all of that. She's a part of the Elegant District. She tells me what to do all the time, but she's very active and also willing to work with people, as she has proven, in the city of Buffalo and not just in the neighborhood she lives in. So, Ms. Bryant, I know I pulled you away from your husband today so that the board, so that the council could see you, but we thank you for coming.
 All right. Next item. Item 78, discharge item 17-888 from the Committee of the Hall. Motion to adopt the discharge. Motion to adopt the discharge, seconded by Council Member Golombet. To approve the amendments? We have the amendments. No, no, we'll get that. That's in submission. So you want to take that out of order? We're just approving the discharge. We'll get to the actual vote on that. Until we get to it. Yes. All right.
 All right, so we'll go through with the regular agenda. Yeah, sounds good to me, Majority Leader. From the top. Item 1, appoint member permission on citizens' rights and community relations. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 2, submission of monthly report May 2017. Motion to receive and file items 2 and 3. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item 4, amend Fisher Associates contract for green code implementation. Motion to receive and file items 5...
 Through nine four through nine four through nine four is an approved note for is an approved Four is approved second by councilmember Fontana item 5 s a QR negative declaration for 90 Broadway motion to receive and file items 5 through 9 through 10 actually I
 all right second by council member franzen and 11 certificate necessity transfer funds blindfold management environmental remediation motion to receive and file it into 11 and 12. second by the president pro temp item 13 information report on the emergency rehab loan program motion is sent to cd second by councilman why do i thank you mr can we go back to number
 If we're not going to change the motion, you can speak on number four. I won't go all the way back. No, I just want to add something to the motion because of course we're receiving dollars for implementation of the green code. Okay, then if you're going to add something to it, then we've got to do it this way. Motion to revisit item number four. Second by Council Member Golombak. Because I just want to make sure because as much focus that we can put on inclusionary
 I don't want to be too quick in approving this and we still don't have the amendment that we were supposed to receive on inclusionary zoning. So I want to receive the funding because I do believe that everyone needs to be educated on it. I think the green code is extremely important, but I do want to make sure that there's still a focus on making sure that amendment for inclusionary zoning, so before we get to the
 approve this before any action is taken, I want to make certain that we have something before us regarding inclusionary zoning. So you're not asking us not to receive the funds, right? No. So can I make a suggestion? Sure. That we approve it and if you write that you don't want it to go out to the community until we've completed inclusionary zoning. Yes, sir. Because one thing we don't want to do is miss money. No, I don't. Is that money coming in? Is that what that is?
 No, that's a contract. Right. So it's not actually money coming in. But it's going to be an educational component for educating people. So you want green code to be a part of that educational component. The inclusionary zone. And you want that to be attached to the approval. Yeah. Am I stating it clearly enough? I know you're writing something for me. So is there an objection to that? So basically he's asking for this to be approved, but in the education process.
 to discuss the inclusionary zoning component. Right. Okay. Once it is done. Yes. Council Member Scalab? Just for clarification, is Council Member Wyatt asking that they don't go out and do the education component until we've come up with and finalized some sort of standard? Yes, because I think for us to go out and start doing education on that aspect and this aspect that's left out,
 We're going to have to go back and educate folks on that so it doesn't make sense to us to have two steps in the process when we can assure that we have this inclusionary zoning piece and then we educate on the entire part that's a part of the green code. You okay with that? Everybody's okay? All right. So the motion is to amend the motion, the motion to add on that the training component
 would not occur until there is either the denial of an inclusionary zoning or including of an inclusionary zoning. Hopefully. So a decision has been made by the council on an administration of inclusionary zoning. Because it might not have five votes for inclusionary zoning, so you wouldn't want to hold it up past that. But if it does, does that make sense to everyone, or have we confused that issue? Mr. Chairman, I think in fairness, we approve...
 We moved the Green Code expeditiously through the process, understanding that at some point we would revisit inclusionary zoning. So in good faith, we voted for the Green Code. We're still waiting on the administration to forward us their final report. And if we're going to continue to move forward with the Green Code, in fairness, we're going
 People should know what inclusionary zoning is in case we do approve it. If we don't, then but if we're going to approve this now and then later on we include inclusionary zoning, we have to go back out and train people for inclusionary zoning. And so that creates a problem. But I think in good faith, I think we moved the green code as quickly along as we possibly
 understanding that at some point within the near future, which was supposed to be actually in January and February, they were supposed to come back to us, and we're still waiting for that. And I think if they would have gotten back to us. That education would have been right. So you are saying your opinion on the amendment? I agree with the council member. Okay.
 Thank you. President Proctor? Thank you. I certainly understand where Councilmember Wyatt's coming from, whether what we –
 Finally, come up with his inclusionary zoning procedure or policy or something else along those lines. In my opinion, we moved ahead. We adopted the green code. In my opinion, we should be going ahead and implementing it and educating the public and everyone else that needs to be educated on it. So I would vote that we move forward with it and move forward.
 continue to urge um the administration and everyone else to work alongside the council to come up with some sort of policy so i mean if it's a vote to attach conditions to this i i would vote in the negative you comes from front end okay so there will be one vote in negative your amendment
 i would like to understand yes okay because we're in front of just a point of clarification mr president you mentioned that it would be included if inclusionary zoning was approved or not i was wondering if it could just be included because then public would know what inclusionary zoning is we're not going to tell them exact numbers but they would know what the general concept similar mr rivera mentioned they would know what the general concept is
 That's all. So would there be an objection if stated like that, that there would be a general education to the public of what inclusionary zoning is? To be included. Would that be a friendly amendment?
 Would that be acceptable to you? No, I see nothing wrong with going out and letting them know exactly what the policy is, but holding it up until my problem is holding it up until we finalize a policy of our own. So if the amendment takes away the holding it up and just put, we want the public educated on what inclusionary is on it. I have no problem with that. And the amendment accepted? Then we amend with those words. That's good work. Thank you. Thank you. Very good work. Next item. Okay.
 Item 14, Appoint Associate Tax Clerk. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 15, Notification Serials. That one was withdrawn, I believe. Correct. Item 16, Contract Renewal, News Bomber and Clark Sidewalk Inspection. Motion to approve. Sorry. All right. I got my screen back.
 second by councilman friends I'm 17 contract extension BVR construction motion to receive and file second by council member the lumber I'm 18 North Buffalo ice ring motion to approve items 18 through including 29
 second by council member Wyatt item 30 drug acid forfeiture wire transfers motion to receive and file second by council member Fontana and very one request permission to amend contract between PA Ellen Police Department motion sent finance second by council member Franzec and 32 point crime scene technician motion to send civil service items 32 and 33
 Second by President Protill. Item 34, reimbursement for inappropriately incurred towing expenses. Motion to approve items 34, 35, and 36. I'm sorry. I want to recuse from 34. I'm not receiving anything, but it is an employee of mine. What would you like done with it? Recuse myself from 34. Seconded. Thank you. Seconded by Councilman Fontana.
 All right item 37 lodging house 2473 Bailey Motion to approve with conditions I referred to councilmember Montana for list conditions I saw this because we signed those papers now at a time. We got to see this a little bit ahead of time I went to the location. It's at Bailey and Delavan essentially and I asked the gentleman What was this used to be the building? I could tell the building really looked sharp before I
 And he said it was an insurance company. I said, well, make it look like an insurance company again. Get this thing spruced up a little. Give it some paint. The wood was just so dry. It was just looking for paint. And I said, put up a nice awning. Make this place look sharp. And I'll get you approved. So I don't know if we should approve it with those conditions or wait until he does it, then approve it. But let's take two weeks.
 Why don't we set it to committee? I'll give them a couple weeks to get the place in shape. It's already being used as a rooming house. I was through the whole facility. It was pretty clean. He essentially has a religious-type flair to it where they have to partake in some sort of organized religion. He mentioned that it's a church. I asked him if he's paying taxes. He says yes. I said, well, if you're going to have a rooming house, I want this on the tax rolls. Just because you write something on the wall about Jesus doesn't mean it's a church.
 You could do church-type functions, but it's really not a church. And I said I wouldn't want to see the building leave the tax rolls and have the council grant you a money-making license in the meantime. So I don't know any churches that are rooming houses that get free taxes. So he's going to leave it on the tax rolls. That's going to be one of the conditions down the road as for the license. But let's take two weeks to see if he's willing to paint that building because it looks terrible and it could really use an awning.
 Would you like to recommit? And there's two windows. The county made it put two windows in, and they're the worst-looking windows you could ever have picked in your life. They just look terrible. So let's recommit, or we'll send it to the legislation, and then I'll give you an update on his progress of fixing up that place. The motion is now to recommit. Okay.
 Also, no, let me say every commit because it hasn't been I apologize. I meant legislation That's the reason it's sick to live ocean center legs saying my customer front down on 38 mobile food truck about a bing motion to send to lights items 38 and 39 Second by council member Golombi and 40 mobile food truck Niagara cafe motion to approve second by council member friends up and 41 request approval to receive BSA funding for demolitions motion to send the lights items and
 42, 43, and 44. Second by President Pro Tempore. Item 45, used car dealer 2420 Bailey. Motion to approve items 45 and 46. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 47, third quarter gap.
 Motion to send to finance. Seconded by President Proton. Item 48, per national contract amendment. Motion to approve items 48, 49, and 50. Seconded by Councilman Golombek. And this was kind of exciting in that you'll be able to pay for parking on city streets right off your cell phone. That's exciting, especially when it's snow out and you're trying to get over those snow mounds and put a quarter in or go to...
 these machines to get the receipt, sit right in your car, press it in, put your license plate in, and you can even extend it with this program so that if your car, if you, you know, Joe gets stuck inside somewhere, you don't even have to go outside. Write from your phone, extend it one time for a little higher fee, and I think that's great for the public. So thank the administration for really working on this and Kevin Helton.
 Next item. Item 51, I'd return to city clerk without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 51 through 53. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 54, notice of appointments, temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Miscellaneous items. Item 55, concerns parks and recreation adult league fees. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 56, DEC Brownfield cleanup Jefferson Avenue. Motion to approve.
 receive about items 56 from 59 second by council member the lumbar I'm 60 appealing preservation board decision for 980 aliquot motion to send to legislation item 60 and 61 second by councilman friends up I'm 62 sisters of mercy congressional chapter meeting permits motion to approve second by council member friends I'm 63 Buffalo Police benevolent Association concerns motion to send the civil service
 Second by Councilmember Fontana. Petitions, item 64, use 497 Minnesota to operate cultural facility. Motion to send to ledge and city planning board, items 64 and 65. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 66, request paving of Bristol and Clare Street. Motion to send to CD and DPW. Second by Councilmember Glumber. Committees, civil service, item 1, appoint the com clerk typist. Motion to approve.
 second by councilman fontana and two notes of apartments temporary provisional permit motion to receive and file second by councilmember wingo finance community item three approval ems medical director for the buffalo fire department um if i could ask the majority leader mr rivera on item number three to make a motion on item number three got a finance motion probably to approve but i was in a vote in the negative so i don't make the motion got it the motion to approve votes to approve
 Council Member Fontana in the negative. Any others in the negative? I just wanted to state, I'm in the negative for two reasons. The information changed twice on this, and I don't think it should have changed. I don't know why it changed. I wasn't happy with that. And we've received the service in the past pro bono, and I just hate adding $200,000 to the budget for something we've been getting pro bono. I'll wait until next year to see if it's worth it, and then maybe I'll vote for it next year. But in the meantime, we'll get a chance to see if it's worth it. All right.
 Community Development Committee, item 4, Jefferson Ave, approved to transfer title. That's fine. Who's seating? Oh. We hold this item in advance, Mr. President. We're just checking with the district council member. Item number 4? Item number 4, correct. Oh. I wasn't sure if it was Ellicott or Mastin. I think this was the changing of the title. Yeah.
 This is because you got 1490 so it's going back down to 1140. We'll hold it in advance. Okay. Motion to hold in advance item number four. Item five. I'm on sale of 494, 496, 498 7th Street. This is to approve but I do want to make a comment. I'm very uncomfortable with.
 approving this, but in fairness, I'm approving it. And I've talked to the developer on this because this is market rate housing with no affordable housing. The reason I'm pushing the approval or suggesting approval is because this was in the pipeline over a year ago before we started talking about inclusionary housing.
 So I don't think it would be fair on this property to then hold the developer to a standard that we were not talking about then. I have since talked to the developer, and his name is public, Mr. Jambra, and asked him if it was possible in any way to include some affordable housing in this development.
 But what I did assure him, and I state this now and forever hold my peace until something changes, is that when city land is being sold for development,
 I am going to do as much as I possibly can to encourage developers until there's an inclusionary zoning law to include some type of affordable or workforce housing in their development. I told them I was going to state this for the record, told the community last night, some of who are here, who were concerned about this development, who came to us even during the committees.
 I just feel that when developers are going to do this type of project and they need something from the city,
 As one of my colleagues here in City Hall say that they show the city some love. Some would say, hey, why? Well, if we don't do it, if we don't push for affordable housing and workplace housing, we will more than likely never get it. So this will, and it just sends out a message to anybody developing in Ellicott, I can't speak for every other district,
 that if you need city land, if you need tax breaks, because I say the same thing on ECIDA, if you need some type of package from the city or government or any government body that I sit on, the first question I'm going to be asking is not what kind of bricks are you putting on, what kind of windows, what kind of people.
 What is the income level of people that you are looking for for that development? And can you, in your project, find a way to make some affordable and workforce housing in those projects? So I would suggest the approval, but I want all that stated in the record verbatim. Motion to approve. Second by the majority of the committee.
 106, a men's sale of 280 rollers and 495 apiece to Utica. Motion to approve. Second by President Procter. 107, a report of sale of 425 Broadway. Is that mine? Is that yours? Yeah. Is that? Yeah. That's fine.
 Motion to approve. Motion to approve item number 7. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 8, report of sale 107 Edison. Motion to approve number 8, 9, 8 and 9. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 10, cuts to the New York State Cancer and Health Services Program.
 Motion to adopt items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Legislation Committee, item 12, chicken license 23, Sidway. 12 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Wingard. Item 13, list of approved chicken licenses. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 14, use 822 Walden to alter an existing garage for auto repair. 14 was denied by the Planning Board and...
 The request has been denied yet today. Motion is to deny.
 We state a reason on the record what they did not come to member of content Sure, I'd be happy to over 20 years of representing that street and next door on st. Mary's Road I think that the neighborhood came out in opposition to the item and I've seen this become a storage garage over the years This is behind the dairy clean where these are store all the cones and the paper cups and the garage was built with the
 a condition that essentially would be a storage garage. Never built to be like a Midas or a repair shop or even like a car repair place. So it's never been car repaired before, that's one. It's within five feet of a home, that's two. You don't worry about a fire hazard. It's three, there's no bathroom facilities. Four, no water. Five, no gas.
 This is slam dunk in court if they try. Bo is the applicant, terrific guy. Talked to him many times on my cell phone.
 He wants to help the community, but I told him he needs to pick a location that's an actual car lot or an actual car repair building instead of just a garage. Literally, it's like using my garage as a business, which you're just not allowed to do. And it is a commercial site, but it's a garage with one man door, no push doors, no exits, and there was no plan for any of that stuff either. Okay.
 So the planning board rightfully decided no. They gave us their write-up. Neighbors came to the planning board. The block club voted no. And this would be just a round peg in a square hole type situation that we wouldn't want to see in the neighborhood as far as the green code goes. So I would never approve a car lot or a car use in this building. It's really ancillary to the Dairy Queen building.
 All right. For the records. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Next item. 115, use 350 Pennsylvania for outdoor dining. Motion to approve with condition. Second by Council Member...
 16. Use 429 Rhode Island for a tavern and outdoor dining. Motion is to approve with condition. Second by Council Member Wyatt. 17. Plan unit development 490 Broadway. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. 18. Historic landmark application High Street Historic Districts. Without recommendation. The motion is to approve. Motion to approve. And I will say this, that with this one, we were trying to...
 contact the pastor of the church that was included. We didn't have much success, but when I was informed that the church was already landmarked, it doesn't actually change anything on that the store wanted it. I would have probably pulled out the house out of this. However, we only have one person come to the committee to give us a reason not to.
 The house is in disrepair. Once we lift the moratorium and the fruit belt, I fully expect for that house to go up for RFP or some type of process for somebody to preserve it. If anything gives me pause, it would be the house because of the history. But in looking at
 architecture of the house I think and because we read into the record why we don't do it the high street historic district meets several of the criteria for landmark and including it has character interests or values part of development heritage or cultural characteristics of the city state or nation as part of the fruit belt neighborhood it embodies elements of design detailing materials or craftsmanship that render it architecturally significant as all three structures are masonry
 of similar brick and have distinct detailing and features. The one thing that I've, and that ends that statement on why. I'm hoping we don't end up with 10 different little historic districts within the Fruitbelt.
 It just, I think it's counterproductive because when you talk about signage, when you talk about unity. So I would caution those who desire for historic district in the Fruit Belt, maybe they want to talk about the entire Fruit Belt, which is something I would support if the people in the Fruit Belt wanted it,
 number one. Instead of making all of these smaller historic areas, and I see some heads moving in agreement, so, and some folks who are pro-preservation. So I think that that's important for me to say, so we're not revisiting this and I've got to chase around three different landlords to get their opinion, unless it's those, the homeowners who are coming to me
 or to this council, but I'd rather see a historic district
 then have small districts all over the fruit belt and if the fruit belt decided they wanted a historic district I would hope we could collapse all of these smaller ones into just the historic fruit belt area But again, it is up to the people of the fruit belt to bring that to this council That's where I'd like to see it originate if it actually is something they would want. Thank you, miss. I
 Next item. Item 19, Historic Landmark Application 68 and 72, Sycamore. 19, motion to approve. Gladly approve, and we found out that Mr. Rocco Termini, I believe, is in contract to buy these two properties. I have stated to him that this is not city property. We're not giving him any money at this point, but I have encouraged him because it is in the African American Heritage Corridor area.
 to please not make these market rate houses totally where the people who should be able to afford, which is all people, but especially people who have lower incomes or working class would be able to live there. And what Rocco said to me, let's work together, and this is what I like to hear from developers, let's work together, let's see what, if we need some type of tax break to make it happen, if we need it, and these are the type of projects I would push forward every dime we can get our hands on to keep
 affordable housing in the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for your support on that. And, oh, I need to read a statement. Can I just say ditto? The Michigan-Sigamore Historic District 68, 68-72 Sigamore meets four of the nine criteria for designation as a local historic landmark.
 i'm okay attorney all right next item item 20 used car dealer 637 tip motion receiving file
 Thank you, Councilmember Golombi. Item 21, used car dealer 751 Walden. I'll refer to the district councilmember for a motion. Well, once again, we're going to motion to deny on this item. This is across the street from the other item. It was historically a car wash and residents of Wood, Wex, all the streets around there, Academy, St. Mary's, had to look at a dilapidated building for a number of years. Fortunately, somebody bought the place at the auction, fixed it up,
 Put a roof on it, put some doors in it. They're going to use it as a car repair shop, which is okay because of the auto use. But now they want to stick out five cars in front of the place in front of a driveway apron. So there's an apron there to get in. They want to put the cars for sale in front of the apron.
 and try to sell five cars in front of this place. The neighbors there don't want to see five cars for sale on a daily basis in front of this repair shop. So we're going to motion to deny based on the fact that there's improper space for car display on the lot. If you drive there, you'll obviously see the cars in front of the apron that's supposed to be the entrance. So what they've done is not use their entrance. They're using the entrance to the place next door and then cutting over into their building.
 So they're not even using the proper entrance into their location. So I think we're on solid legal grounds here to deny...
 You can't just put car dealers in every little building that you want. And this obviously doesn't have a spaceport. And so it's safety. Safety, you're blocking the entrance to the place. You're blocking the apron. I just noticed it last night. I was driving up Walden, and I said, where are they going to put these cars? And I looked, and they already have the cars there, by the way. They're already there for sale. It's another thing where the state gives them the license, and then they go do it. Well, they're already doing it. He has five cars for sale there.
 And we have a big problem in the district with car dealers overstuffing their lots. Genesee Street is an absolute disaster. The lots between...
 Bailey and say Foreman Street in Peace, those are at that area. You can't even drive into the car lots. They have so many cars stuffed in the lots. If there's ever a fire, we're going to need to fight that from Genesee Street. We'll never get anywhere near the building. We've asked the Commissioner of Public Works, I'm sorry, Inspections, to go shut them down, clear the lots many times. We're going to do it again this year. This time I think they should be shut down a little longer for violating the city codes multiple times.
 Was there a fine for that? I hope there is. It's not about to look at it, but they're stuffing the lots with higher numbers than they're supposed to. I'm not saying they're going from five cars to seven. I don't even pay attention to that. They're going from five to 30, and they're just stuffing these lots. You can't even drive in. You have to park on the street. And then David mentioned it last meeting. They're actually parking unregistered cars in the street. Okay.
 lining those up in addition to the cars in the lot. And I don't know where those cars go at nighttime, but they obviously don't stay on Genesee Street overnight. The same problem on Sycamore, Michigan. We gave them only a certain amount of cars, and you kind of let a few go when you ride past, but once you start seeing them in the street all over,
 And it just tears up the neighborhood fabric. Yeah, it just goes back. And for fires, it's dangerous, too. Right. Thank you, Councilmember. Thanks, sir. Item 22, concerns demo of 68 Sycamore. Motion to receive and file items 22 and 23. Seconded by Councilmember Lombard. Education Committee, item 24, young audiences request to speak at upcoming education meeting. Motion to receive and file item number 24.
 Want to go all the way down? No. 24. Seconded by Councilmember Glumet. Item 25, Buffalo City School District options, find more money or make cuts. This item was an article written in the Buffalo News regarding more funding for our school district. The district has received an increase from the city in almost a decade.
 And as I made it clear at the Education Committee meeting this past week, that although this may not be a home run with only receiving a half million dollars for our school district, we won't stop swinging. We won't stop fighting to ensure that the district has whatever support from the city that they need to ensure the success of our students. We're going to make a motion to receive file item number 25. All right. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Thank you.
 Item 26, homeschool parent lost custody of her two children due to administrative errors. As Ms. Harris' children have been returned to her, I don't want to discount or diminish the fact that they have gone through extreme hardship, suffering due to some type of error in the system or some type of inadequacy in the system.
 We want to continue to fight for the legitimacy and the enfranchisement of our homeschool children as our superintendent has declared them to be Buffalo School District students. So even though her children have been returned to her, we will not give up the fight for homeschool families and ensure that they have been included into a system or process that is effective.
 Barrier free in order to ensure that they are integrated within the school district and however we can use a district to support those families So with that being said we're going to receive a file item 25 as well In 27 community schools most is receiving file items 27 and 28 The whole item 29 mayor's recommended budget fiscal year 2017-2018
 Motion to approve the budget as amended. We have changed approximately $610,000 to the mayor's budget, including $150,000 more for community projects, programs, and projects. I'd like to say that with the help of certainly the leadership of the Common Council and the mayor's financial staff, we've been able to make these changes.
 It was a very tough conservative budget, as usual. The mayor always sends us a very tough budget. There wasn't much room to move things around, but we did manage to find some places to move things around for the changes that we made to the budget. There were some concerns, obviously, during the budget process and the hearings and the workshops regarding the use of
 unassigned funds, reserve funds, by the Comptroller's Office and even by some of the Council members. But at the very end, we have to choose between raising taxes and fees and perhaps using some of the unassigned reserve funds. And nobody likes to use the funds, but in order to continue to operate the City in the manner that we have,
 I think this is the best budget we can approve. So motion is to approve. I want to thank Council President Chris Scanlon and all of the council members. And, of course, Donna Estrich, who's here, just in case we want any last-minute changes to the budget. But thank you very much, Chairman, and all of the council members for this report. Motion to approve the amendments. Those were the changes to the amendments. Exactly.
 And I echo that. I want to thank all of leadership, our president, our
 a majority leader, and also Tiana, our deputy clerk, who did a lot of the running up and down and back and forth and office to office and literally walked out of here at night with the books to make the adjustments that we had requested. One of the interesting things is some of our adjustments, we just adjusted our own monies so that we did not have to go back.
 and ask for more money so that we can make sure that our taxes in the city of Buffalo stay stable. It is conservative. And I want to say thank you to Donna and to the administration. A lot of the reason that we don't have a lot of changes –
 is because from the beginning of the process, the mayor has reached out and said, you know, let's work together, let's figure this out, so that by the time we get to these points, we're not spending three weeks fighting over $2. We've worked some of those things out. I know that the public...
 was concerned about being heard a little earlier and so by the time it gets to the council it is already the price has been set the council cannot add to that price um i'll use your words i think you're going to speak next so let me i give credit to david franzak for teaching me these words early on the mayor proposes the council disposes right is that right you'll see i got that from david
 And so what will come up later in this meeting is a resolution that I've written that would change the budget process a tad bit, that early in the year there would be a public hearing.
 And in that public hearing, the public would be able to voice their concerns or their suggestions about what they would like to see in the budget very early. It doesn't mean everything that is suggested would happen, but what it does mean is that the public's voice is being heard earlier in the process than coming. The only time they actually get to speak about it is in this room,
 And it's already before us. And so it's pretty tough. I think if you pack this room or wherever the hearing with people said we want you to raise taxes, then you can raise taxes. But I doubt if that will ever happen. But I think it is important to be transparent and let the I don't think I know it's important. And to let the public be heard on what their desires are. So that's coming up later for a vote.
 Councilman Franzen. Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman. I can remember in the early years of the budget that document Was treated with a great deal of trepidation It was because the budget was given a mystical quality you know and and I think in this process that we you know, we used to turn the budget into a fetish and
 I can recall sitting and you can get lost in the weeds, in the minutiae. I can recall hours at night, weekends, we got to come in for the weekend. I can recall taking that big book and going over, when you're cutting a weed whacker and a commissioner would come in and said, you can't cut that weed whacker, we need 500 weed whackers and you're only giving us 250.
 you kind of forgot the spirit of what the budget is supposed to be, which should be a demystified document that has gone through thoroughly, through a hearing process.
 and through a careful study process that you don't lose sight of what it's supposed to do. And it's a template. It's a guide into how we want to provide services to the city, how we want to make sure that the dollars that are coming in, most of which are coming in from the state, I don't know how many years it is since property taxes used to bring in all the revenue. It's got to be many, many decades ago.
 And in the past, we suffered many cuts from the state, especially under the elder governor Cuomo. And we really had to make cuts. And live bodies were let go. We're not in a situation like that where the city doesn't set it right. The city budgets conservatively. And that's to the credit of the administration, the Brown administration and the Common Council. And we don't get hypnotized.
 by the budget is a mysterious, we demystify. We don't turn it into this object of, you know, this kind of menu shop, but we just keep, you know, the broad parameters of what we want it to do to make sure the police are, you know, properly funded to do their job, to make sure the departments who provide services to fix the basics are there.
 Plus some, you know, small amount of priorities for the Common Council, which we do to serve our constituents. And so I think that there is a calm assurance in recent years in the budget as opposed to the, you know, frenzied process that we had in the past that was a marathon session of kind of wearing people down.
 that they're kind of forgetting what the whole mission of what this budget is supposed to be. And you let the budget control them rather than controlling the budget. Thank you. Thank you for that view. Council Member Fontana? Thank you. The budget used to sometimes come half-baked, not under this administration, but under past, where the senior division would be cut, the parks department would be cut,
 this would be cut. And many of the members here would feel strongly that those items should be back in the budget. So as Dave mentioned, we used to go and every page try to find money. The
 We'd cut so we didn't have to add to the tax base, add to the tax rate. And we would cut if we needed $500,000. We'd go in and we'd cut out $500,000. And then we'd send it back to the mayor with the department put back in every year, which is ridiculous. Every budget season of May 1st, I'd go to my senior centers and I'd say, Matt, see how they'll cut you out of the budget, you're out.
 Don't worry, in 22 days I'll have you back in. We'll stay open. And I go 22 days back later, and I was the hero because I put him back in the budget with the help of Dave and Joe and other members over the years. So I was just goofy. I said, why don't you send us a budget that's complete with the departments we want? And this mayor does listen to that. He doesn't cut out departments and sends it to us to fix. So we're not that technical. We don't have to be that technician-type person that would need to put together a budget and actually finish it for the mayor. It comes pretty well together.
 If you will. And we just have to make sure that it's, you know, we've gone through and make sure all the lines make sense. Did we receive the controller's report on the budget? Is that? And Jerry, just for the motion, do we have to motion separately on the amendments? We have to approve the amendments separate and then approve the budget as amended?
 We only have one motion. The wording of that. We approve the amendments. We approve the amendments. Okay, and then we approve as amended. And now we're going to approve as amended. Okay, terrific. And thank you both for that because, you know, the question of why aren't there as many days as what there used to be. But we consolidated to have the hearings one day, but it did not mean that there was not work on the budget for the last two weeks.
 and then have the workshop so that all of the commissioners who are in the building, I think it went rather well, and then the public who wanted to be here, they only had to be here one day and not have to come in one day for two hearings, come in the next day. I think that if I, you know, it
 work in person if they want to be involved they have that opportunity to be here for a full marathon day and we got all of the departments in and thank you for that perspective on why it's a little different now than what it was some years and hopefully we'll never return to those days where it comes half baked all right so the motion was made second by councilmember the Lumbeck
 Motion is to approve the mayor's budget. We've approved the amendments to the budget. Now, motion is to approve the budget. Second. As amended. Second by Councilmember White. Approved as amended. All right. Next slide. Resolutions, item 67, increased appropriation, jail and courthouse renovation. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Winglet. Item 68, 60th annual Allentown Arts Festival. Motion to approve items 68 and 69. All right.
 Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 71, fee waiver for East Zone Clean-a-thon. Motion to approve items 71, 72...
 And 73. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 75, public engagement in the City of Buffalo budget process. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Golombek. And for the public who is concerned about that, they can speak if the chairman allows at the next committee meeting so that we get this right.
 Next slide. Item 76, smoke-free parks except in designated area. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. Second by Council. Oh, these are the remainder go to legislation so we can make sure. The remainder for both 76 and 77. Motion to adopt. It resolves the remainder to legislation for items 76 and 77. Thank you. And what 76 does is adds the word to our smoking
 ordinance the words parts except in designated areas. So this directs Corporation Council to do that. Although this will go to legislation for the remainder, right now this Council is directing that to occur.
 That will be written. The only reason I'm sending it to committee is so that we can make sure it gets done and we don't lose sight of it, especially before we get too far into the summer. So as of now, when this council approves this, we are directing her to add that word, those words to this, to the existing law.
 And on 77, we are directing so the public understands our corporation council to begin the draft of an inclusionary zoning policy. Now what I've included in the resolution is to ensure that we are working with the public, working with developers, and working with all stakeholders. But I want to be extra clear.
 That does not mean this should draw out for a year. If our corporation council has to ask the boss to give her time to do this, we want to make sure that we are being genuine to the public on it.
 All right. Next item. Item 79, fee waiver, Father Baker, 5K. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 80, City of Buffalo Parks to be tobacco free. Motion to adopt items 80 through 82. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Oh, and do the same what you want to adopt, Council Member Winkle. Okay, the same on that. Adopt the resolves and send the remainder to legislation.
 All right. Item 81, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Council Member Columbus. We have your item that we were holding in advance. Item number four. From Community Development. Oh, yeah, we're going to finish out the resolutions and we'll come back. Yes, sir. Item 81, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. We're at item 81. 81. Motion to adopt item 81 and 82. That's seconded by Council Member Wyatt. We have an item held in advance from Community Development. Item number four, 1140 Jefferson, approved to transfer title.
 Council Member Williams? Mr. Jefferson? Okay. Can you just recommit it? Is that okay? Hold on a minute. That's fine. That's one we discussed. That's for the affordable housing. I just, it just clicked. We can approve? Yes. It's a 52-year. Yes. Okay, motion to approve. Thank you.
 I give by Councilmember Riegel. Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, May 23rd, 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Tuesday, May 23rd, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, May 23rd, 2 p.m. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts?
 council member wyatt and then fontana this has been working out really well i want to announce again on wednesdays for the month of may councilmember in the district at the bailey check cashing 3101 bailey from 10 a.m to 3 p.m i'm really excited about it and we get a lot of people coming in you don't have to worry about the parking and all that good stuff so again we're going to be doing this to the end of the month every wednesday
 from 10 a.m. to 3, and I will be there tomorrow. So if you want to stop in, no appointment necessary. You can just stop in. Love it. Last thing is I want to just continue to announce our festival, University United Festival again. This is our third year doing it. I'm really, really excited.
 We've been doing a lot of advertising. We've got a lot of residents who are calling. Again, this is about pride in the community as well as information about what's going on in the community so people can get plugged in. So, again, just Saturday, June 10th from 10 a.m. is the parade, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. is the festival. We have something for everyone, children, seniors. It's going to be a good time. We hope that the residents of the city, but mostly the residents of the University District, come out and participate. Thank you. All right.
 Any other announcements? Council Member Fontenot. Thank you, sir. The Head East organization in Lovejoy, headed by Mr. Michael Cacciatore, a good friend of mine, is hosting a Memorial Day
 service over at Hennepin Park by the Veterans Monuments. We're going to be there at 1 p.m. starting in front of Hennepin Park on May 28th, day of the holiday weekend. Also, I want to thank my colleagues. You all voted for a resolution a few weeks ago that put the heat on a local company.
 Oak Grove Construction, who does many projects in the area. And that resolution called on the DEC to go out and investigate the site for changes to the grade, which could then flood areas of South Buffalo and Kysertown downstream. The DEC was there the next day after Julia was on the horn with them, and the DEC wrote them up on many different violations.
 Two days later, they were before the public in West Seneca at the town senior citizen center. The owner of Oak Grove received quite a grilling in public. People were upset. But we ran a fair hearing. He was visibly upset that this council called the DEC on him.
 But, you know, you want to play in the sandbox, you could get some sand on you. So after the meeting, he decided he was going to pull the resolution to put a stone and cement crusher at the city border of West Seneca, South Buffalo, and Kysertown.
 He has since pulled the application, no longer looking to do it there, and he's going to move his operation to Elma. So, Cuyahoga Town, South Buffalo, and West Henifick got a big victory by not having this rock and cement crusher put in that neighborhood. We already have one in the district of Fillmore and Lovejoy, and we've seen what that has done, and we didn't want another one. That's why we fought it so strongly. And it was nice to see that the community, in the end,
 received a big victory in him pulling his application. So thanks to everybody in Kaiser Town for that.
 Thank you. Councilmember Franzen. Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to mention this in the Community Development Committee, but what Mr. Fontana said reminded me that sometimes our resolutions have some positive result. And in an environmental vein, on Smith Street, the NFTA Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority was going to store junk vehicles and dump snow from the Cobblestone District and Main Street and dump it on Smith Street.
 a few hundred feet away from the Buffalo River and near homes in the Valley Community Center, this council passed a resolution in opposition to this plan. I spoke to Mr. Stepniak and our state local delegation in the local council
 Assembly and Senate people. They also got involved and NFTA announced that they will not be dumping the snow there which would include batteries and tires and all kinds of things nor store the vehicles adjacent people's homes just feet away from the Buffalo River which is the whole strip is being remediated and also turned into recreation. So our resolution did have an impact when they read it they decided they wouldn't do it.
 Good result. And then I went out with Mike Murphy on Saturday. We walked the neighborhood, and the neighborhood sees that as a win. Great. Nothing else? You mean we're done? No. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Wyatt.