over there I'm parked because I have an event right after this it's all multitasking millennials on the move so efficient all right we're live five four three two one roll call council member Bowman here council member Farrelletto here council member Golombek here
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Here. Council President Pridgen? Here. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. From the top. From the top. Item number one, call for special session. Motion to receive and file. Thank my councilmember Bowman.
 Item number two, amended council rules for 2020-2021. Motion to adopt as amended. Question. Council member Nowakowski. Question. Question, council member Wingo, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair, I appreciate it. Malcolm, if you possibly could help me to share my screen with everyone. We're amending the rules for a position that we have described for something that is already
 been billed by the Common Council. So Malcolm, if you would allow me to share my screen, Jim, whoever. Yes, sir. You've been made a co-host. You now have share screening capabilities. Okay. If everyone can see this screen here. The rules are specifically to ask that we hire an individual who is to analyze public complex policy issues. However,
 We already have this document from the Department of Human Resources for the City of Buffalo. And this document said that the Chief of Staff is the head of the Council's central staff and responsible for all matters of staff support for the Council. The Chief of Staff performs a variety of professional level duties involved in the research and analysis of complex municipal policy issues for the Common Council.
 The chief of staff also serves as a communication and policy liaison between the council, the mayor's office, city departments, governmental agencies, and the general public. Then it says the chief of staff, first and foremost, is responsible for this research and analyze complex public policy issues.
 and prepare reports accordingly to provide the counsel with information and policy analysis necessary for the proper conduct of legislative business the position that we have described as the attorney is already filled if we're going to hire an attorney
 uh respectfully mr chair i think that we should adjust the language so that it is not clearly redundant uh with what we have uh here as relates to the um policy advisor here under the rules which says the common council may hire a policy advisor whose sole purpose and function shall be to evaluate proposed policy initiatives
 Make recommendations for the Common Council and its members now to me this Position is already Filled I was under the impression that this person would be giving us legal advice and not just giving us Evaluations on proposed policy initiatives Mr. Chair, I do believe that this is a position that we could tremendously benefit from and
 If we did not rush and change our rules so that it worded or read as something that was redundant.
 I respectfully submit to you that we should, and I will vote on an amendment to this policy advisor, if we could possibly change the language so that it is consistent with every other support staff that we have in Common Council or central staff.
 which is to say just plainly that everyone in council staff should report to the chief of staff, being that is his job or her job.
 and also that this person's responsibility, purpose, and function should be to provide the Common Council with legal advice. However, that can be worded whereas we're not usurping the authority of the Corporation Council because anything that they recommend to us legally or otherwise still has to be brought back to the Corporation Council and put into form.
 So, sir, respectfully, I would vote I will vote for this if we could just please amend the wordage for the function and the purpose of this to be very clear that this individual is going to give us legal advice, therefore kind of justifying the minimum requirement of holding a jurors doctorate degree.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. I appreciate your comments. At the redundancy of how this is written, I'm rather secure with it because it means we have several people. Then, for instance, like in the comptroller's office, there's not one accountant.
 So, you have several people then who could help with the advice of policy. I'll be clear, this was the language that was written by our corporation counsel and amended by me to ensure that it would be someone with a law degree.
 By having that, it does not take away, and obviously one of the reasons we want this position, is to have someone who could legally advise us. We have been advised by Corporation Counsel that they couldn't represent us in court.
 Well, that the job of representing the counsel in court would be corporation counsel. So I totally understand and hear your comments. If we even, let's say for instance, were to strike from the chief of staff's job, the analyzing portion, in the meantime, we would have absolutely no one. So this is what I offer and I appreciate the offering the change of language.
 that once we have filled that position, we can relook at what those titles say to better reflect once that position is filled. But until we fill that position, the chief of staff would have to continue doing that. So I really have no problem, Council Member Wingo, looking back at that once we've filled the position and adjusting to that.
 Okay, I appreciate that. The second question that I had for today regarding this position is the hierarchical structure for this position, because it is being hired through the central staff,
 My concern is this individual will need to report to the chief of staff as the job description clearly denotes that this individual, the chief of staff will have direct supervision over the support staff for the Common Council. And as a council member, any of us can go to any central staffer and request anything directly.
 However, with the specificity behind this particular position regarding its purpose, I'm afraid that this person may not have enough work for the description that we've written.
 And again, respectfully, I really appreciate the fact that we are looking out for ourselves regarding matters of legality so that there are no, quote unquote, to my colleague, Mitch, Councilmember Nowakowski's point, no missteps that that is appreciated. But this individual, should they be hired, you know, under central staff?
 Should report to the chief of staff and central staff. That way, of course, there is no breaking up the chain of command, so to speak.
 So again, one thing that I offer is that the overall purpose of today is to just establish the position. I have talked to several council members who have different opinions, but I will work with all of the council members.
 to figure out who the person would report to. I think that once we hire an attorney, in order to get an attorney to come to work for the council, they may want a different reporting mechanism or flow. And I'm not against that. I'm not against tweaking this
 to make it better. So I want to be very clear that if you have council members, a majority who say, hey, we want the attorney to report directly to the council president or council leadership, I'm okay with that.
 So publicly say that, Councilmember Wingo, and I have absolutely no problem as we move toward that attorney. Thank you for your support on that and then saying that you do understand why.
 with that, I will be open to making any adjustments. As a matter of fact, I talked to someone from leadership within the last couple of days to say, we may have to look at that piece. And so that we make sure, first of all, that we have an attorney that's not just kind of being told by everybody, we need this, we need that. I think that this attorney will have a lot of work.
 We have a great deal of legislation that we are trying to move forward. I think especially with things changing so quickly around us that they will earn their keep. But I am very, very open to that discussion of saying where do they report. Anything else? Anyone? Okay.
 Councilmember Wingo, are you finished or do you still have the floor? Oh no, I think you've answered my question. I'm just pleased to know that we are going to continue to refine and modify this job description as it moves forward so that there isn't any confusion in that internal office because I really do believe in chain of command. I really do believe in hierarchical structure. I do believe that your master's degree is in organizational development, so I know that organizational leadership, so I do know that you understand the importance of making sure that there's a clear line of communication and making sure that the morale is not
 deteriorated by uh or eroded because someone is coming in but i think this is going to come up a little bit later and i don't want to spend any more time because i know i've seen my colleague columbix hand up but uh we are like you said in previous meetings this position is no longer connected to that title that we have in our budget for the common council correct correct okay thank you i'm done thank you mr chair thank you remember columbia
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just have a question that sort of piggybacks on what Councilmember Wingo mentioned. The job title that we have in the current budget for the lawyer, and my recommendation for a compromise by filling the position with a future position, was so that we could eliminate this position and this salary from this year's budget. I'd just like to know where we are.
 on that if we are still planning on, rather than hiring a new person, filling that position by attrition. And if we are going to then eliminate that $90,000 title from this year's budget.
 Yes, Councilmember Golombak, we've stayed true to that. That was part of the compromise, that we would not, there would be no termination, there would be no removal of any current staff member, but that it would be filled through attrition. And that we are getting rid of that position that we have added this year in the budget?
 I'm not saying we just added it to the, yeah, for an extra position. Exactly. Okay. All right. Okay. Just wanted to make sure I'm willing, I would vote yes on it with that understanding. Thank you. Great. And Council Member Wingo, I just went back, I had somebody pull up what the rule looks like and it doesn't say...
 From what I'm looking at, Rule 45 doesn't say it will report to council staff at this point. It doesn't have any reporting. So we have that door open to make sure we have the proper reporting. Yeah, so no, no, no. You're right. I don't think I suggested that they...
 It was that it's just so kind of broad right now and the specificity of just the sole purpose of this role right now. It says the purpose and function shall be to evaluate proposed policy initiatives. That is very specific.
 And, of course, with the current structure of this position and with them being a JD, I just want to make sure that we are maintaining the integrity of the hierarchical structure in that office since they will be coming in through attrition of central staff. So that means they are going to fill a position that is subordinate to the office.
 Chief of Staff, which means they will be a direct report to whomever the Chief of Staff appoints to be their direct report should that person not be the Chief of Staff themselves. But that is clear. I'm not saying that this position is not in the budget for this year. Right. Thank you. Anybody else? Motion stands to adopt the rules as amended.
 Second by council member Wyatt. And next item. Item number three, extension of council's decision on Mayor's 2020-21 recommended budget. Motion to adopt the extension. Question. Second by council member . Second by council member . Council member Wingo, you had a few. I was trying to question before we went to the vote, but it's okay because I have. You can vote, yeah. Okay.
 So, Mr. Chair, this extension here regarding the budget, of course, I've got phone calls and messages from my constituents in my district who would like for me to not vote to extend the budget for various reasons. So I believe I've already expressed why I believe that we should not extend the budget. But I do have one question regarding the extension of this budget. What difference...
 would it what difference is what the people of the city of Buffalo incur should we extend this budget from tomorrow then to June 6
 I can explain it to you the way I have explained it to people so that I'm just going to repeat what I've said to people to get them to understand what my feeling is. So it's that I'm not trying to do a civics lesson or be. Oh, I got you. You're good. You're good. I put it through the same way of my own household budget. And if I needed to set a budget for coming up in the next year.
 And I know that I have a possible job on the way that someone says, you're going to possibly have more money. And I want to buy a house, but I don't know whether I've got the job yet. Nothing in writing, nothing has been approved from the mortgage company. I just know they say it should be coming soon. I probably wouldn't go to buy that house if I could have time.
 Now, what would be the difference? And this is the question that I want to answer quickly. What would be the difference if we get nothing from, hear nothing from the federal government come June 6th? Well, this is the difference. The difference is by June 6th, we have at least waited to be able to see, will we get 65 million and will there be casino money or will there not? So then we're able to make some more decisions.
 By June 6th, and there's no executive order, this council, we have to make a decision. There will be no choice. But the difference will be from what we were told from the commissioner, Donna Estridge, was that if we wait until, I mean, first of all, the administration on our public calls said nothing or the representatives about this would send the city into a spiral. This is going to cause layoffs. And we asked, it's on the record. They said nothing.
 They said, we can hold up if we had to, to June. After July, what we were told, at least in public, was that the terms of the loan would be different if we did it after July. So the reason I would be, if we heard absolutely nothing, if nothing changed, that we would come back to the table before July, I mean, before June 6th, would be because we'd be homeless, basically, is how I equate it. Then you have to make some different types of decisions.
 The second thing and final for me is that the same way that right now the administration isn't doing a loan package because they're waiting. They're not releasing what they would do if the money doesn't come in because they're waiting. So the administration is in a waiting period. And I want to be clear, I think almost all council members, I can't speak for all council members,
 But we generally agree that the budget is very conservative. I don't see like, I don't want to cut anything out of the budget. I don't want to cut out anything because it is very, very conservative. Personally, I think it's a good budget. However, I wouldn't get a mortgage based on a verbal, we may get some money. And so that's kind of the difference for me personally. Okay.
 Okay, I completely understand everything you just, you know, kind of intimated over these last several days that we've been in these sessions and these meetings. So essentially, whether we wait or not, just, you know, humor me, our response will be the same, whether we get the $65 million or not.
 now or later. I mean, if we don't get it now or if we don't get it later, our response will be the same. Because essentially, we are, and I forget which council member had, I think, I believe it was Council Member Kolombek had said earlier how we are, for lack of a better phrase, kind of picking and choosing which hole in the budget we want to focus on just so that we have an excuse to kick the can down the road. If we don't get this $65 million, we're going to have to get
 we're going to enact the mayor's contingency plan. If we do get the $65 million, then we're fine. But I guess my point is, whether they give us the $65 million now or later, we're going to have the same budget. And whether they don't give us the $65 million now or later, we've got the same contingency plan.
 So I don't understand why we have to push off voting on the budget now and basically prolong the inevitable when all of our responses are going to be the same over the course of a few days.
 If we get the money, we're going to do what we're going to do. If we get the money later, we're going to do what we're going to do. If we don't get the money, we have a plan now or we have a plan if we don't get the money later. So I guess that's my point and that is my point of contention and that is my frustration with this budget vote being extended because it feels to me like I don't want to have to stress over this any longer than I have to.
 I believe that the people of my district are concerned. They don't want to have the stress over this much longer than we have to. And I just, I particularly believe that we're just, you know, kind of pushing a rope on this one. That's just my personal opinion. And I appreciate it. And I hear you. I want to do, I do want to say that it does not necessarily mean that it's going to be the same budget. I was reminded yesterday that the council,
 has the opportunity to cut a budget. So it does not mean if the federal government came out tomorrow and said we're giving you $60 million and we're $5 million short, then it would not be the same budget. It would probably be, we'd probably reduce by $5 million. We would have to work with the administration. The second thing is when we talk about the contingency plan, I want to be clear.
 I don't know what the contingency plan is. So I'm not going to pretend that I would go with the mayor's contingency plan. What we have been told in one hearing after another, we have a contingency plan. And I agree with Council Member Golombak. I don't expect for them to tell me the contingency plan in public.
 But I don't know what that contingency plan is. And I may disagree with that contingency plan. So I will not blindly lean on a contingency plan that I'm told is there and that I understand why it's not being shared.
 Unfortunately, you know, I don't want to stress over the budget, but stress is a part of this job. Over these 10 years, I've stressed many nights, and I would love to be done with the budget today. I would love to be able to vote, but personally, and this is personally, I can't leave my children and grandchildren with a bunch of debt that I didn't take my time
 to try to figure out, do we go into debt? If this money does not come in, do we make cuts? That's a decision I think we have to take our time. So at the end of the day, for instance, I want my constituents to know that I stressed out, that I worked hard, that at the end of the day, I turned over every rock.
 looked under every can to see how we could make it through with either the 65 million or not. And I appreciate the question, because it gives me the opportunity to answer it. So there are there are times we we we
 qualify something that's kicking it down the road when it is actually just waiting for it to be the best that it could be for our constituents. So it doesn't mean that the budget would be the same. So you've said it and we've all said it basically that the Common Council has the ability to cut the budget. All right. So we have to face the reality that we're going to have to cut the budget should we not get this $65 million. We have to face that reality.
 The mayor has laid out the basic premise of his contingency plan, but we've not laid out the basic premise of the council's contingency plan. And what I'm particularly asking is what are we doing to ensure that there is a plan in place for us? Now, he may not publish the specifics of his plan because it may involve laying off. And I understand that.
 I get not disclosing what's going to be the specifics of his plan because then you'll have folks going crazy on whether or not their job is next. I get that. But there will be cuts should we not get the $65 million. Now, the Common Council, we have to deliberate. We have to discuss and talk about and share with each other.
 I agree.
 I believe that the Common Council needs to be the leaders that we were elected to be and show the people that we are willing to make these cuts. Not willing, I'm sorry. Let me amend that statement. Not willing to make these cuts, but we are willing to do what's necessary. Even though it may not feel good, we're willing to do what's necessary, including and ensuring that this $95,000 that we have in our budget for this attorney that we're not going to hire right now, but we're going to hire through attrition.
 That needs to basically disappear because at the end of the day, we can hire anyone we want to hire. We can give them any in-house title we want to give them, and we can give them any salary we want to give them. But we first must wait through attrition. That means that we are trying to secure the people that we have and then want someone to leave or be invited to leave. Then we will then put someone in that position.
 That I believe is very very responsible, but this number that we have in our budget should not be there I know I'm probably making a lot of my colleagues upset and let me just apologize to you all right now. I I'm sorry guys I'm sorry But I think it needs to be said that the Common Council's budget needs to stay right where it was and not increase anything This position that we have in our our
 Central staff for ninety four thousand nine hundred dollars needs to be taken out completely and not dispersed in another place Not not put in another line. We need to show leadership as well We all need that money for our constituents and for our initiatives from our constituents in our various organizations we can use that money and
 But family, colleagues, we have to make sure that we're being responsible and being leaders by showing that, listen, we're willing to give this up. Let's get ready to make these cuts. Let's the Common Council have a plan and then we can move forward. Mr. Chair, I'm sorry. I'm sorry I took so much time, but I appreciate you. Thank you, sir. No, I hear you. And that will be a decision of the council when we have the budget in front of us.
 What is before us right now, and I'll come to council member Golombek and then Revere, what is before us right now is the extension. And I'll be clear is that as we get to those points,
 some wanted to go back into their communities that have suffered, that where we're buying PPEs for people, and that's gonna be a decision of the majority of council members where that 90 goes. There are other things council member, as you know, that council members have asked for, that if we're going to be the example, we may have to look at that, raises for staff and other things. Those are also additions.
 And when we're talking the difference between $90,000 that we have worked together to say it won't go toward a salary in this time, we're still not dealing. I want to make sure that the bigger picture is $65 million over the 90,000, because as a council, if you want to strike the 90,000, you have the opportunity, I did send out a
 a email to everybody asking them what they wanted. Anybody could have said, I want to cut $65 million from the budget now. And if five council members said, we want to cut today, $65 million out of the budget, I would have entertained that request. I did not get that request. So what is before us right now is the extension. Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I guess my question, main question is, I'm opposed to extending the budget deadline. And part of the reason is this. I have not received any information that the federal government is going to vote on a stimulus package today.
 you know, in the next week or two. The information that I've been given is that there will eventually be a vote, but they don't really know when. If we knew that the vote was going to come well before the June 6th new deadline, because my understanding is,
 is that we can't extend the budget beyond that because we have to print out our tax bills and such for the new fiscal year which begins on July the 1st. You know, I'm going to vote no on extending the budget because I simply would prefer that we know exactly what our budget
 I would like our federal representatives to be able to go in and say, look at this, here's the city of Buffalo's budget. It's a slight increase over last year. The hole in the budget that the city of Buffalo needs help with has not been caused by fiscal mismanagement. I saw some things on social media over the past week where people misunderstood the deficit, the 25, 15, 35, whatever that number is.
 because it's fluid. But back in January, we were expecting a $3 to $7 million budget surplus at that point. And then this COVID crisis hit, and now we're facing a deficit this fiscal year, and we're facing a problem next fiscal year. And I want to reiterate that that is not
 because we have fiscally mismanaged, you know, any of us, the administration, the council, etc. It is simply because of the crisis, the lack of sales tax, the lack of revenues coming into the city of Buffalo.
 I would like to vote on this budget and be able to give our representatives that are going back to Washington, D.C., in the Senate and the Congress a hard number so that they would be able to take a look at it, so they would be able to know exactly what we need in our budget. I think that if they go back now, they can say, well, the city's planning on having a budget of such and such.
 um but they didn't vote on it because they want to wait for us um because they can make cuts allegedly um you know i don't trust some of the people in washington dc i don't trust a lot of the people in washington dc i'm afraid that by not passing a budget that we send them mixed message
 that, you know, oh, well, we can make these cuts. The reality of the situation is that if we have to make $65 million worth of cuts in the upcoming budget, it's going to be catastrophic. I was here 12, 14 years ago, whenever it was, when we had the horrible fiscal meltdown. We had to lay off bodies. We are still, you know, at the tail end of...
 of having a morale issues in some of the departments, police and fire who had to go years without a raise, city employees who had to go years without raises. And finally, we're starting to build back our momentum and something that is beyond the control
 of any of the council members, any of the administration, the mayor, you know, anybody in the city of Buffalo, my vote is going to be no on extending this. I would rather just
 vote on it, have the budget taken care of. And then if we find out that those monies are not available, then comes the contingency plan for us with the council and the clerk's office for the mayor's office. Although I am in agreement with Mr. Wingo and I'm glad that it appears that we're going to get rid of that one position and save $90,000 to bring our budget back more in line with what it was last year. Thank you.
 Thank you council members. I'm sorry council member beer and then scandal. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman I just want to go to the origin of this This pause was issued by the governor because of the condo kovat
 And the pause that he allows us to do this and we're pausing as well. He allowed us to make this pause other municipalities, other states, other cities are delaying their municipal budget for the same reason that we're doing it.
 They're doing it for the same reason that we're doing. They're being responsible. We're talking about leading. Leadership does lead. And I believe that this council is leading right now. We're not just following. We're just not going along. We're actually leading. We're taking some time. These are extraordinary times that we're working with. This is unprecedented. So this council has said...
 hey, let's take this time for a number of reasons. One, we can wait on our federal representatives to give us more assurance what direction they're going. Secondly, it gives us an opportunity to work with this administration. That is what we want to do. We want to work with them. Let's talk
 internally within leadership, within committee, internally about the contingency plans. I want to know what some of these contingency plans are. Up to this point, all we heard from various departments is that there is a contingency plan. However, this leadership
 does not know exactly what those contingency plans are. So we want to work in these 10 days. And I can't tell you for sure. We've talked to state representatives, our Schumer's chief of staff. He couldn't give us with all certainty what's going to happen.
 As far as our budget, he was asked point blank, would having a budget somehow help things or not help things? Having a document, would that help things? And he said, you know, that's, I can't tell with all certainty. 50-50%. It would be a guess. That is what...
 our federal representative. This budget, delaying it by 14 days, is not going to cut a job. It's not going to lay off a person. It's going to give us some time to have a little more certainty about where the government is heading or what these contingency plans are. I think that this Common Council is leading right now. We're just not following. We're just, we're
 actually leading and I applaud you for this and those common council members that support the extension thank you very much thank you sir council member Scanlon you're on mute sorry about that good morning thank you council president good morning gentlemen
 These are very uncertain times. You know, none of us has ever been through a situation like the one before us today. We have a global pandemic that has brought to our doorstep the possibility, should we not receive any federal assistance, that we would need to make drastic changes to the operations of the city of Buffalo, including furloughs, layoffs, cuts to programming, borrowing, et cetera. As a result, we have a decision before us today.
 And that decision is not whether we vote to delay a decision on the budget or not. In my opinion, it's a decision of whether or not we take action during a time of crisis. We're all aware that should the federal government not provide us direct federal assistance, we're going to have an enormous gap in next year's budget. The number we've been referencing is $65 million. But let's be honest, none of us know what that number is exactly going to be.
 None of us has a crystal ball that can predict exactly what's going to happen in the future, what sort of revenues we will or will not bring in, or whether or not there will be a second wave of this virus, which could possibly cripple us further. So we can all agree that we have, as of right now, a major hole in next year's budget as a result of this health crisis.
 So we need to act. Other areas of this country that are hit with natural disasters, do not sit back and cross your fingers and hope that help will come. They say to the federal government, this is what we need. They start billing FEMA, they start doing things like that, saying these are the holes we have, our people are being harmed, we need you to step in and help us. So here we sit with a $65 million hole, and what are we debating doing? We're debating holding off on asking for that assistance.
 If we all agree that we're going to need this funding, what is the mechanism through which we are asking? What is the formal document indicating to our congressional delegation and to Washington, D.C., that we need help? An adopted budget showing a $65 million gap, which will negatively impact the operations of the city of Buffalo, and most importantly, the people of the city of Buffalo, is that mechanism through which we can wave our flag saying that we need help.
 Now, late yesterday afternoon, I joined you, Council President, the Majority Leader, and some members of the administration on a phone call with Martin Brennan, the Chief of Staff of Senator Chuck Schumer. Now, this is the Chief of Staff of the Minority Leader of the United States Senate, the highest-ranking Democrat in the U.S. Senate. Mr. Brennan made a couple of things very clear, the first being that a decision was made.
 on a next round of stimulus coming in the next two weeks was far-fetched, and that negotiations were just getting underway. What he did say, and I found extremely reassuring, was that Steve Mnuchin, the Secretary of the Treasury, has been a great partner throughout this ordeal with them negotiating, and said that he sees something getting done for our local municipalities in the next package.
 Now, the two weeks that I referenced coincides with the end of the New York State pause orders, a date which several of the council members would like to use in this resolution references as a drop-dead date for us to move on the budget. And I've heard several members of the council who are in favor of extending the deadline say at that point on June 6th.
 they would move to approve the budget for a litany of reasons. My question is, if the minority leader of the United States Senate doesn't see a resolution to the stimulus negotiations by that date, what is the point of extending it? We're just going to arrive in the same place in two weeks, especially when we have other high-ranking officials in federal government, even from the Republican side, saying they're working toward indicating they will get something done in the long term.
 The other thing Mr. Brennan made clear, and he said this was absolutely key to getting something done, was to applying pressure to our federal representation. He said it is critical that we create a sense of urgency and to show how things are going to impact municipalities, in particular on the human side of things.
 He said we need to use any connections we have, any relationships we have, and any other conduits we may have to create that sense of urgency. So I say how better to create a sense of urgency than to show the human side of this pandemic and to show this human side of this pandemic than to adopt a budget which makes it abundantly clear to our congressional representation that the City of Buffalo is absolutely
 and the people of the City of Buffalo are going to absolutely be harmed if we do not receive assistance from the federal government. Programs will be cut, people will be laid off, we all know the other issues that would take place during some sort of contingency plan. So this is the way we can create that sense of urgency and that conduit and that mechanism through which we can ask for that funding.
 I believe that punting on this today down the road for two weeks and holding our hands and waiting for someone from outside of the city of Buffalo to come to our rescue without taking any decisive action on our part here on the ground is is kind of irresponsible. So for I and I you know I've heard other things come up about um the governor extending pause orders and things like that but you know the New York state governor didn't sit and wait
 to present his budget in the county legislature or the state legislature did not wait to approve the state budget. No, they were decisive. They decided to move forward saying, this is where the money we need to operate so that New York,
 government and New Yorkers are not harmed. And I think we should be doing the exact same thing in Buffalo, taking decisive action and applying the pressure to our federal representation and saying, listen, we're doing our part. This is what this takes to run the city of Buffalo and to make sure that our residents that we were elected to represent are not harmed. We need you to step up and take the ball from here and get it across the low line. So for those reasons, I vote against extending the deadline.
 Thank you, sir. Just a couple comments and I'll go to Councilmember Wyatt. I think there's a difference between punting and huddling. I'm not a football guy, so I really might be wrong. This isn't punting the ball. This is huddling because we don't know the play. I was on the same call you were on briefly on yesterday and I asked a question.
 And the question was, what would be the chief, basically the chief thing that we could do in the city in order to help our federal delegation? And you are right. You're right, President Pro Temp. The key thing he said, and the keys are what unlock the door, is the pressure on the federal government. For the time I was on, he did not. And as you said, because I didn't hear him say, he said, or someone said, I think it was Councilman Revere.
 You have an adopted budget, I don't know, 50-50. At the end of the day, there are some uncertainties, many. You're right, everybody's right who says we don't know what this pandemic could do.
 We don't, we have no idea what the future, there's certain things we cannot control. But the one thing that we can control as a legislative body is utilizing the laws that are in front of us to be able to huddle. The reference or the thought of standing around twiddling our thumbs, I'm not sure who's twiddling their thumbs because we heard very clearly from our federal representatives, we need your help.
 We've been on calls with the administration, with the unions. Um, I continue to advocate. I've been on calls this week, not with, um, Senator Schumer's chief of staff. I was on the call with Senator Schumer last week with the majority leader of the state. And even in talking to the majority leader of the state yesterday, uh, and when she was informed of what this council might do, she actually applauded the efforts state who will eventually, uh,
 have to weigh in on all of this also. The majority leader of the county talking the same language of we may have to pause. So at the end of the day, I'm not twiddling. I'm not, this is me personally, I'm not sitting around hoping, but I will not give false hope
 by voting on a budget that I haven't at least continued to advocate for the 65 million or the 100 million. That's the uncertainty. Some of the bills that are right now floating around in Washington, talk about 100 million for the city of Buffalo, which then we are in great shape or better shape, I should say. But yeah, I'm not punning. I'm not leading a punt. I'm leading the huddle.
 Council Member Wyeth? Yeah. Council Member Scanlon? Yeah, I'm just, I did play football. I'm going to have to one up you on the football analogy here that and my fear is that if we sit here huddling the time clock's not unlimited and the time clock's going to run out. And if two weeks from now we just wind up in the same position, I don't understand why we're not taking action now. So it just it doesn't make sense to me for us to sit here huddling for two weeks.
 while time runs out and we sit here at the same place in two weeks and then wind up with the same play that we were going to two weeks previously. So it's just where I stand. All right, thanks. And I know you know football a lot more, but the time clock has been extended and I didn't extend it. The governor did. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to say that
 We have not been twiddling our thumbs. We've been working very diligently, learning the details of the finance and the budget. We were given a budget with a $76 million hole. Nobody said, hey, there's a contingency. We heard that there's a contingency.
 But I've been saying we need to be working together. We have not worked together. The administration has done what they do. They've sent their people to speak to us on doing something that we are vehemently against. And I think we're showing real leadership, not followership. We're a co-equal branch to government. We see a big hole and no one has explained to us any details of what the contingency is. But there is one. But we don't know.
 Yesterday, as I listened to the control board's meeting, what did they say? They want more details on what the plan is.
 for us not getting the money. Even the control board said this. So I don't think that the majority of us who are standing on extending this are on the wrong side. Some of us may just be misguided and I'm gonna leave it at that. I think that what we're doing is responsible, not irresponsible, and it's not twirling our thumbs. It's a standing in the point of leadership. I just got my master's in leadership and I'm so proud of it
 Because leaders lead.
 They are willing to negotiate. They're willing to have other conversations. But this council member has not had any conversation with the administration. However, they want our vote to do something that, to me, is somewhat irresponsible, to kick the can down the road and wait till we hear something else. We know that we may have to make some decisions, some very difficult decisions. However, I think we give ourselves some time. There was an item that I put forth.
 regarding the school zone cameras, that the mayor has decided that he was going to use the governor's pause order to not sign it. But in this case, we should not use that same opportunity. I think that that shows that there is a doubled speak and we want to speak clearly and we want to hear clearly. And it's our responsibility as elected officials. And for me, it's even more important as a finance person that I would not support
 passing a budget with a $76 million hold, knowing the other issues prior to this. Some of you may say, oh, it wasn't the pandemic that caused this problem. No, it wasn't a pandemic that caused the problem, but it was a pandemic that exposed our problems even further. So you can argue your point that it wasn't the pandemic, but it was something that we've seen all along that we've just continued to
 ignore and think that we can project revenues of $500 million and we've not one year since the last three years received $500 million in revenue. I've done the numbers. This is not rhetoric. It's not hearsay. It's the facts. Over the last three years, we only brought in on average $475 million. Right.
 We have a problem before the pandemic and we have a bigger problem now. Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry, I was on mute. I could hear. I just couldn't. You couldn't hear me. Anyone else? All right. Mr. President.
 Councilmember Golomba? Yeah, thank you. You know, we've been bandying about the contingency budget coming from the mayor's office, and, you know, I understand that, and I understand the concerns as to what that contingency budget is, but I'd just like to share this with my colleagues. I'm one of nine Democrats on the city council. Mr. Rivera is my majority leader, and I have not been
 called to talk to be explained what our contingency budget is for the council or the clerk's office. Those are the two departments that we have direct control over. And I specifically asked those questions when we had our budget hearings, and I did not get an answer to those questions from leadership of the council.
 Also, I'm a little bit disappointed, and I did share this with you, Mr. President, and I understand that part of this problem is because we have to do everything by Zoom, we have to do everything by email, by text messages, and it's not an ideal way for democracy, but I did not know that we were going to try to push the budget an extra week. I finally heard rumblings. I think I sent out that text message on
 Sunday maybe or Monday, I forget exactly when, but it had been almost a week since I had heard from anybody on the council, except for Mr. Scanlon about what was going on. I had sent messages to the staff's office to find out if there were any workshops or anything that I was missing.
 So, in my opinion, I respectfully disagree with a couple of my colleagues who say that we're not twiddling our thumbs at this point, because it doesn't seem like there's been a whole heck of a lot going on for the past week. And if there is, it's being held without my involvement, and that's disappointing, because
 I'm one of nine. I'm one of nine council members. I'm one of nine Democrats. I would expect the majority leader to be in direct contact with each and every one of the council members. And that has not happened. I don't know if it's for accident or if it's been on purpose.
 But in certain regards, especially as Mr. Scanlon says, it does appear that, you know, we're huddling, you know, to just simply wait until June the 6th.
 And we're not gonna know anything more June 6th than we do today. I would much rather see our federal representatives have the opportunity to say, here's the city of Buffalo's budget. This is what they need. They have a whole of 65, 75, whatever million dollars it is. This is the catastrophic catastrophe that is gonna face the city of Buffalo. Here are the hard numbers.
 And let's say for the sake of argument that we did approve this budget on the 22nd. And let's imagine that the $75 million doesn't come through. What happens? We have to meet.
 We're going to have to meet. We're going to have to work with the mayor. We're going to have to work with the administration to make cuts. He's going to propose the cuts and we're going to be sickened because we're going to have to support those cuts. So I don't see waiting the next two weeks, how that is going to benefit us. You know, and that's why I specifically asked if the federal government had given us a date, if they would have said, oh, we're going to definitely know by June 5th, by May 29th. Okay.
 Okay, I think that there would be some real reason for wanting to extend the budget, but we
 have been given no commitment. And as a matter of fact, we've basically been told that there most likely will not be a vote by June 6. So I think that, you know, waiting this extra two weeks is, is foolish on our part. I'd rather give our federal representatives the hard numbers, what we need so that they can go to Washington, DC and fight for us. Thank you. Thank you.
 And we will give them the hard numbers of what has been proposed and we'll move forward. At the end of the day, there hasn't... Okay, I'll go to when I finish this statement, Councilmember Bowman and then Revere.
 At the end of the day, there hasn't been any private meetings. We've made everything rather public and to have our discussions and deliberations right here in front of the public. And so you've been a part of every meeting that I've been in and that every council member on this call has been in. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to say that I don't think extending it is irresponsible. I think it's responsible and for a freshman lawmaker looking at this budget for the first time is giving me more time to look at this budget and make a more informed decision. Maybe
 the federal funding does not come in the next two weeks but in budget hearings I did ask several questions about deficit borrowing. I'd like more information on that, the current statutes. I'd like to know what the long-term fiscal impact to the City of Buffalo would be from deficit borrowing. So in these two weeks I'll definitely be doing my due diligence to look into that and ask more questions but from the Comptroller and Administration I really haven't had
 answers that have made me feel comfortable of if that's our plan B and accepting more liability. So that's another reason why I'm for extending this. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Bowman, Council Member Revere, and then Nowakowski.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We've had a series of meetings. We had budget meetings. We had workshop meetings. We had a public meeting. We had committee meetings. We had gap sheets. We had the controller's response. We had the control board's response. We had finance committee meeting in between. We have shared whatever information we have with each and every council member. So I...
 I respectfully disagree with Council Member Golombic who mentioned majority leader by name. I think all of us have been privy to this information. And if you haven't, it's because you haven't read the GAAP report, but perhaps you didn't attend the council meetings or the finance committee meetings. But we have been transparent and open as we possibly can.
 And, you know, it's unfortunate when we take times, opportunities to attack one another. This is not what it's about. This is about solutions, finding solutions, working together. I think we all have the same interests. And that is the residents' interest.
 of the city of Buffalo, our constituents, we all share the same concerns. Perhaps you wanna get there in different ways and I can respect the differences. That's part of this. I respect the differences, but I will not personally attack any one council member. I think we've all been informed as best we can in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of Zoom and everything that's been going on. So I commit myself to work these next two weeks as hard as we've all,
 already been working. We're just going to continue to work at this. We're not going to sit down and twiddle our thumbs and sit on the bench or huddle all these analogies. We're going to work to make sure that when we make that vote, it is based on the best information we have. Thank you very much. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I want to reiterate also what Councilmember Bowman said. As freshman lawmakers, our very first budget is during a global pandemic with a $65 million deficit, which is the money that right now, that $65 million is as good as monopoly money. So if I need extra time granted by the governor of the state of New York during a global pandemic to answer questions regarding deficit borrowing, how much will we have to take out? When?
 more reassurance from our federal government so that I can make the best decision possible on the behalf of the Fillmore District. I believe that I am doing my due diligence and that I am acting responsibly because it has been stated during the Finance Committee that by extending this budget vote, which we keep saying June 6th, we could vote on this budget. This council has vast powers.
 We could vote on this budget and hold a special session anytime we want in between those two weeks. It does not need to be June 6th. But if we can inform and better equip our council members to make the best decision possible on the behalf of their constituents, I will be voting that way. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
 Yes, and I wanted, we're going to call the vote soon. So if we can, if we have any new information or any new positions, Council Member Wingo. I just want to ask you a question. I heard it quickly, but I don't know if I really heard it, that you had suggested that all nine council members were on one call regarding what we're discussing today. No, I'm talking about all the committee meetings we've had, everything that Council Member Revere just talked about. Okay. Because I, I,
 That's not what I said. I said the committee meetings. Okay, because that that that that will be my comment and I'm not gonna make another comment. Councilman for your letter. Thank you very much. Just a couple things to add on. I know there's this certainly has the votes that it's going to be extended so the council could vote on it between.
 now and June 6th. I think it's important to note, I know a lot of people have different opinions, but that we're all in agreement that this body, this administration is together and we're all advocating for the federal funding that the administration has put in the budget. And we're hoping that our federal representatives are advocating very strongly for us. And I think it's important
 Certainly important that we get the money and essentially today what we're voting on is the budget. Do we vote on the budget today or up until any day between now and June 6 and I understand everyone's position on this and
 Hopefully, we're all hopeful that we do get the $65 million. However, I think it's important that during this time where we are waiting to take a vote on it, that we are working together doing what we need to do to advocate for this funding, whether it's contacting our federal representatives, because I think the budget put out is a good budget,
 And it does, I believe it has the plans that A, we get the federal funding. If we don't have federal funding, then the next option would be B, would be borrowing. And then anything on top, if A and B don't work out, then doing cuts. So I think it was laid out in what the steps would be, but...
 And I know some people talked about the contingency plans. I know we didn't get the details about them, and hopefully we don't get to that point. However, I think we should all be working together to hope that it's, A, that we do get the federal funds. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilman Frioletto. I echo your words. We must work together to get those federal funds in whatever ways and whatever influence that we have and send out a clear message that the city of Buffalo does indeed need that. And one of the things that I did hear from one of our elected officials in Washington was that they don't think it will happen this week.
 At first we were told there was going to be a vote Friday, but what they did say is this thing is so fluid that it really could happen quicker depending on the deals that are made in Washington.
 So thank you all for your input. It has already been moved and second. I know that Council Member Golombek is asked to be recorded in the negative. I believe President Pro Temp in the negative and Council Member Wingo in the negative. Any others in the negative? All right, that then would carry. Item number four, Mayor's Budget Recommendations for 2020-2021. Motion to receive and file.
 Would it be received and filed to a table? Table, Council President, Majority Leader. I'm sorry, table. Second by Council Member White. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Thank you all for your service.