And we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Roll call. Council Member Bowling. Present. Council Member Friar-Aletto. Here. Council Member Golombic. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Prugent. Here. Aki. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Council Member Harris. Here. Council Member Harris. Present.
 Sorry, let's pledge to the flag, please. Pledge allegiance with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. I'm having a few little technical issues that I'm trying to work through on my end. So please, I apologize if I'm going in and out with my mic. It's not working. Just let me know if I go out.
 We are pleased to have with us, I believe, on screen, I can't see everybody, but the Reverend Dr. Al Warner, is he here? Connecting now as well as Reverend Giles, sir. We are joined by the council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Dr. Warner, you're muted. Thank you, council president. You'll notice with us today, our friend, many of us on the council and for the city of Buffalo, Pastor James Giles.
 I know that many of you know him and have worked with him throughout your neighborhoods and districts. You may not know that when he started Mad Dads back in 1996, it was one of the first major anti-violence groups ever.
 He also heads Back to Basics Outreach Ministries and worked to bring together the coalition that's now known as Buffalo Peacemakers. And it seemed incredibly appropriate today to have him as a voice for justice and peace in our community. Pastor Giles works tirelessly on those issues and represents us so well. I'm thankful for Pastor Giles and his work.
 a mantle for the city of Buffalo. Pastor Giles, would you unmute yourself and lead us in prayer for the city and the council? I certainly thank you, Pastor Warner, as well as I greet you all in the name of my Lord and Savior, all of you on the council today, but all minds are clear.
 God in heaven, you are the creator and the sustainer of life. God, we invoke your presence to abide with us during the course of this meeting. We certainly ask, Lord, that your peace would be with us on this day, Lord, this day that marks the death of George Floyd that sent the country into turmoil.
 And I pray now God that peace would still reign, rule and abide here in this city. Lord, we have had so much tragedy that has taken place here. So I ask that you bind us all in the spirit of love and unity. I pray God that you would bridge the gap that exists Lord between this council, wherever it may be.
 And I pray, Lord, that you would grant each of them wisdom, giving each of us what to do, when to do it, and how to do it. But now, God, I ask for your blessings to be upon this city, Lord, that the body here that's present here will make this city great. Lord, we know it's within your will for it to be great. And I just ask for your divine hand to be upon every work. I pray for their families. I pray for the well-being of their districts.
 And God, that whatever takes place, Lord, our promise is to give you all the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Let the redeemed say amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Giles, and thank you for what you and so many organizations that are connected to you do on a daily basis.
 on our streets and I have said over and over, it hasn't always been quoted, but I want to quote it here of what I've said over and over when I have been interviewed about the violence in our city, is that I think that the violence in our city would be much worse
 if it were not for groups like yours and others that are attached to you. I mean, there's countless times when I've had situations that I couldn't handle, didn't know who the players were, didn't know the situation, and calls to your organization and organizations that are attached to you have kept many, many people alive.
 And I think sometimes that gets missed in the conversation when we're talking about where we are now versus where we could be. So, Dr. Warner, you were totally correct to ask one of the most prominent people when it comes to working for peace in our city. That is for him to offer the prayer. It is a historical day. And you have helped to complete that, Pastor Giles. Thank you.
 I thank you, Pastor Pritchard. I so appreciate your comments and I receive them at heart. And I think all of you, all of you have been certainly a huge support of what it is that we do in this community. And I certainly thank you for your continued support. God bless you all. I won't be here for the meeting. I'm actually starting a new program today. Council Member Wyatt, I'm going to call you because it's in your area, right? So I'll call you later on. God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, seeing no special presentations. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the meeting of the State Meeting held on May 11, 2021 are approved. Council Members, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Seeing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. I just need to do a screen change and I will be ready to move. Council President. Yes, sir. I just want to make certain, do we have the correct item in logged in for the fund balance policy? We do. Okay. That's all. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, sir.
 From the top? Is that right, Majority Leader? We're going from the top? Do we need a memorandum? Do you think Wingo has his hand up? Are we doing memorandums today or not? Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. We can go back to memorandums. Council Member Wingo, you have one? Yes, I do. You have a memorandum?
 Thank you. I would like to ask for the city of Buffalo to keep me in your thoughts and prayers, the family of Vera Tompkins, who passed on just last week. She leaves the territory of memory, a host of family members. She was a very, very, very great member at the Antioch Baptist Church. She was an usher, and even after all of the strokes she had, she
 She was always right back on her post at the church. But this last stroke, you know, of course, she succumbed to that. And we're asking that the entire city of Buffalo, please keep that family in your prayers. Thank you. Thank you. Any other memorials?
 Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I would just like to place the names of Joseph Yavacoli and Thomas Mantino into the record today. Two longtime Lovejoy residents, longtime members of our Italian American club over in Lovejoy, the Big Timers Club.
 their families continue to live in Lovejoy District. And we just are thinking that their families and they have our condolences. Thank you very much. Thank you. Seeing no others, I do want to mention, as was mentioned, the family, although they might not be local Buffalonians, they have affected our country, if not our world, and that would be the family of George Floyd.
 which is very important on this day. We always acknowledge those who have given their lives since our last meeting for the freedom of our country and the freedom of others. We pause now for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 The motion has already been read and as I stated earlier, as I got on a piece of my equipment broke. So I am trying to maneuver a few things in a very difficult way, but I'm going to do my best. We ready to go from the top? Yes, we are. All right, from the top. Item number 1, Declaration State of Emergency. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 2, Award of Contract, Monami Studios.
 Motion to approve items two through six. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? You can keep going. We'll come back. Sure. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Council President, sorry, but I don't know what was going on there. It's okay. I'm having the same issues. I think it's from those dates. Thank you, sir. Record Council Member Scanlon. Next item. Item number seven, appoint real estate maintenance manager, revised. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number eight, a certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file items eight and nine. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 10, control of 2020 to 2021 third quarter gap response. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 11, fund balance response. This is a late file. Do we want to send it to legislation or to finance? Where is it right now, the fund balance policy? Is that alleged?
 Fund balance policy. If it's policy, if this is a response to the policy, it should go to ledge or wherever the policy is going. I think we discussed that because it's a policy. I think it's in ledge, so we'll send this one to ledge as well. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 12, change order engine 38. This is another late file. No.
 we can approve items 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Council Member Bolland? Yes. Council Member Fierletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes.
 Council President Prigent? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Item 26, appoint Director of Street Cleaning and Snow Removal. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Mr. Chair. Council Member Wingo. Corporation Council, is it necessary to send this item to Civil Service because we already know Mr. Olovincia?
 and the work that he's done. Can you repeat that statement? We already . Is it necessary for this item to go to civil service?
 Sorry, Assistant Corporation comes to Karen Gordon. It's usually the process that's what we do. We have been feeling that we should stick the process so that we don't change things in the middle, you know, when it's unexpected. So I would say we should just stick to the process. And if in the future the council wants to make changes, you know, we can also we can always do that within our rules. We can go to civil service. Motion stands. Next item.
 And our 27 permission request 2021 Osborne Association grant funds. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Yes.
 Item 28, appoint civilian crossing guard. Motion to send the civil service items 28 through 30. Second by council member Golombic. Item 31, contract between the city of Buffalo and Empire Dismantlement Demolition 207 Guilford. Motion to approve. Second by council member Wingo. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombic. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen.
 Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Item 32, third quarter gap 2020 to 2021. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wyeth. Item 33, fire department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 33 and 34. Councilmember Belongbe. Councilmember Bulma. Yes.
 Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Galambach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 35, Mayor out of town travel. Motion to receive and file items 35 and 36. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon.
 Item 37, notice of appointment, council intern 8. Motion to adopt items 37 and 38. Second by council member Columbus. Item 39, notice of appointment, laborer 2, seasonal. Motion to send to civil service items 39 and 40. Second by council member Ferlo. Item 41, request for speed bumps for Tyler Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Watt.
 Item 42, public comment on recommended budget to school year 22. Motion to send to finance items 42 and 43. Second by council member Golombek. Item 44, special use permit 391 forest for a neighborhood shop. Motion now is to approve. Second by council. I'm sorry. We have a hearing. I'm sorry, I see notice we have a hearing on 615.
 So you just send it to committee? We'll send it to committee. Second by council member Fairlittle. Majority Leader, we typically send them to the planning board too. To the planning board. That's for item 44 and 45, Majority Leader? Both items? Yes. Yes. That motion is for both items for the record. City Planning Board. Submissions list, civil service appoint battalion chief.
 Motion is to approve item 1 and 2. Second by the Majority Leader, Rivera. Item 3 appoints seasonal laborer 2. Do we need to roll call those approvals? Yeah. Correct. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 3, appoint seasonal laborer 2. Motion is 2, receive and file. Item of the majority, Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 4, single source provider request, Park Yan.
 Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Fialetto. Yes. Council Member Golombic. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Community Development, Item 5, Disposition of Real Property, 30 Bud Mill Drive.
 We're going to recommit this motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Watt. Item 6, Jamal Stadler ESD grant. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Galambic. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prudhian. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo.
 Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Legislation item 7 dance hall 1669 aka 1673 hurdle. Motion to approve items 7, 8 with conditions, approve 9 and 10, 11 and 12 with conditions, 13 and 13 also for approval.
 As stated, those items with conditions and the other items with approval, second by Council Member Golombik. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombik? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 14, Ordinance Amendment Article 20, Budgeting.
 This item was sent without rec. I know there were some changes made. Did one of the sponsors want to speak on this item? Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you Mr. Chair. You can make a motion to receive and file this item. There is a new item with amendments and resolutions. Thank you. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 15, Local Law to Amend Article 31, Flood Damage Prevention.
 Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Noah Koepst. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Galambic. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Priggin. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember White. Yes.
 Item 16, recommended policy, police policy reforms and community engagement. Motion is to send to police oversight. Second by Councilmember Revere by the Majority Leader. And on this item, we sent it to police oversight.
 oddly enough or maybe prophetically, on this date of George Floyd's death. Because it's important that the city knows and people know that this council is still engaged in what better ways can we accomplish police reforms. Two of our colleagues, Council Member Nowakowski and Council Member Rivera made a great impact
 on the team that did the first steps with the administration and others on moving police reform, not just forward in conversation, but actually doing something. But there's more to do. And I think every most people, most people would agree with that. And as we I don't want anybody out there to think that this council after last year is now tone deaf.
 to what is going on. There's still some reforms, many things that must change. So I wanted to thank Council Member Nowakowski for being on the team and Rivera, but to let people know that this is not a closed discussion for this council. And so we are not receiving and filing this item. It is going to a committee so that further discussion and hearing from our public is so important. So thank you Council Member Rivera for allowing us to come to your committee.
 Thank you. Thank you. Item 17, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479, Speed Regulations, Version 2021. Motion is to approve Items 17, Items 18 and 19 with conditions approved 2021 and 22. Council Member Wyatt, Council Member Scanlon, you have the floor.
 Thank you, Council President. I'd just like to be recorded in the negative on item number 17. Please record Council Member Scanlon in the negative on item 17. Mr. Chair, my hand is up. Mr. Wingo, you are recognized. Report me the negative for item 17, please. Report Council Member Wingo in the negative for item 17. Anyone else? All right. Record those two in the negative. Roll call. Council Member Coleman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Galambic? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Councilmember Winkle? Yes, with the exception of item 17. And Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Mr. President? Councilmember Crumbit? Yeah, I'm number 17. I'm in the negative as well.
 All right, so we, the first was in the positive affirming. Please record Councilmember Golombek in the negative for item 17. Resolutions item 46, ordinance amendment article 20. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item 47, trailblazing sign in memory of Allison Michelle Turner. Motion to approve items 47, 48, and 49. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferreira? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchett? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wengel? Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 50, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 50 and 51. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 52, Awareness Amendment Section 263-39. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 53, Trailblazing Resolution for Gwendolyn White-Zinnerman.
 Motion to approve items 53 through 56. Second by Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank my colleagues for the support on the item for Gwendolyn Zinnerman. I was able to be at her home going. Just a wonderful mother, wife.
 and community leader. She will be dearly missed by this community and her family is truly honored that there'll be a trailblazing sign in her memory for her efforts and support of the community. So I'm really honored to be able to do something that's really significant, something that's meaningful for someone who stood up and did what they needed to do to assist her in improving our community. So thank you all. Thank you. Council Member Bulman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto.
 Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? You can continue. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. All righty. Was that the last item, announcements from the clerk?
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com for slash BFLOCC. For regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 1st, 2021 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, Tuesday, June 1st at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 1st at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 1st at 2 p.m.
 All right. Council members, any announcements? Just as an update, we are working on how we will go back into session, and how we would include the public, for instance, in committee meetings. That has to be worked out, of course, with the building, with the administration, so that we continue to keep people safe. We are not out of the woods yet.
 And Buffalo is still one of the hardest hit areas for deaths to this day because of not many of our people not being vaccinated. So that is the reason we are still in virtual sessions, but we are working on it. Seeing no other announcements. Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Thank you all. We are adjourned.