Is your boss coming? What? Is your boss coming? I don't think so. Okay. Thank you. I need your amendments for the public that's here in the chambers right now. Thank you. I'll do that. Just do it. Yeah. Yeah. And avoid any fight over it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can I share my promotion with you? Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Ferraletto. Here. Councilmember Golombac. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Mr. President, motion to reconvene from recess. Motion is to reconvene, seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. I apologize, we are just waiting for the Corporation Council to come down. I apologize. Mm-hm. Somebody just asked me. I was watching. Who are we waiting for? Item number four, budget amendments 2024, 2025. Motion to open. This item is open. Thank you. First and foremost, I want to apologize to everyone for the delay in today's budget vote. I want to thank the media and especially the members of the public for their patience. A question arose earlier today about the status of the recently passed local law authorizing the city of Buffalo to exceed the New York State property tax cap. I didn't want the council to take any steps today without making sure every I was dotted and every T was crossed. So one of my first responsibilities is to make sure I protect the legislative body. So again, I apologize for that delay. Our Corporation Council, Cabette Chambers, has joined us, and I would ask that she please opine on the situation that played out today. Good evening, Chavette Chambers Corporation Council. This afternoon I was asked to advise my client based on actions that were taken, procedures relative to the filing of the local law, as well as actions to be taken by the council this evening. And I did find after reviewing everything with my client that the proper steps were taken. I do not have any concern with the body moving forward. I do not find that there are any legal impediments to your moving forward this evening. Thank you. Again, just to be clear, I think this is the fourth time I've asked you today this, the same way. As is the corporation council of this entity, the city of Buffalo. If this council takes action on a budget today that exceeds the New York state tax cap, would they be doing so legally? Yes. Okay, thank you. I want to thank you. I know some people were wondering about the council going into a session with its lawyer, an executive session. That is the reason why we wanted to just make sure that every I was dotted, every T was crossed pertaining to that local law. So thank you for that. I also want to thank my colleagues on the council for their patience, first of all today, but also their work on this budget. Navigating the budget process is not easy. I want to thank the majority leader, the pro temp for their work, talking things out, negotiating, speaking with members. Keep communicating with the members, making sure we adopt a budget that provides adequate services to the residents of the city of Buffalo, while placing as little of financial burden on them as possible. I know that on May 1st there was some sticker shock when the budget was released and there was a 9% increase to the property tax levy proposed. But through negotiations and getting creative, we've been able to reduce the property tax rate increase on residential homeowners down to 4.19%. So I want to thank the administration for negotiating with us on that and helping us again reduce that financial burden on the residents of the city of Buffalo as much as we could while maintaining services. Another thing I mentioned, one thing I mentioned is maintaining services and how vital it is for the city of Buffalo. I want to thank the members of the council for fighting for and making sure that that the weekly recycling pickup was retained in our operating budget. There was some discussion about removing it, but this council together decided it was not a good idea. There were increasing taxes to be reducing a service, so I want to thank the council members for that. And just for the public who's watching, I just want to provide a little bit of information. The mayor is required to provide his budget to the city council before or on May 1st. Council then has to the May 22nd to take action on it. We can do one of three things. We can adopt it as is, we can amend it as we've done today, or we can vote no on it. In two of those three scenarios, the mayor's budget is ultimately enacted as it was proposed. So through two of those three actions, the 9% tax increase on the levy would have gone into effect. So again, I want to thank my members, my colleagues on the council for working to reduce that tax burden as much as we could. And fighting for the residents of the City of Buffalo. Finally, I just want to say this before I go to the members for any comments and a vote of any sort. This was a tough budget. One of probably the toughest, if not one of the two toughest that I've had in my time here at the council. And we, as a city of Buffalo, we are at a point where a lack of revenues is really, in the immediate future, going to drastically impact the operations of the city. If we do not realize new or increased revenues in the immediate future, we will be in some sort of financial crisis. And I think we're aware of that, and I for one am not going to allow that to happen. So as we wrap up this fiscal year in the next six weeks or so, and we turn the page to 24-25, the 24-25 fiscal year. I just want everyone to know that this council is going to take every step it can. Talking with my colleagues today, take every step it can, utilize every tool at its disposal to minimize expenditures, limit unnecessary hiring, and ensure that we do not fall off of some sort of financial cliff. So before I vote, if any other council members have anything to say. Council member Glumberg? Thank you. First of all, I just want to thank the leadership for showing leadership during this process. I voted against raising the tax levy by more than 2% last month for numerous reasons. The main reason was I wanted to protect the taxpayers in my district, but Once we received the budget, I knew, as you mentioned, that there's three options. And two of the options are that the mayor's budget automatically ends up being approved. And I want to thank you for working with, I'm assuming with all of us, especially with me, in taking our requests and where we were looking to cut things seriously. And I will vote in the positive for the amended budget because we were able to bring the taxes down on the residents in our districts and that we represent. And you're absolutely right that one of the problems that we have had this year is that this is probably in the top three worst budgets that I've had to deal on. And I've been here when we had the control board budget and what was that, 03 or so? Can't even remember now. But this was pretty bad and hopefully we're going to learn from this and we're going to be able to try to find places. where we can seriously take a look at saving money between this year and next year's budget. So once again, thank you to leadership, thank you to my colleagues, and thank you to staff for doing all the hard work on this. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Council President. I along with Council Member Golombak and Council Member Sheed-Wyatt voted against overriding the tax cap. Simply because it came to us at the very last minute and we really didn't have a chance to vet it or to leverage anything we possibly could have gotten by asking for more cuts before approving the override of the tax cap. So I wish we had more time, I wish the administration had given it to us months before that. We could have negotiated, instead of negotiating at the last minute, we could have been negotiating a month ago and leadership could have been downstairs on behalf of the rest of us. I'm delighted that we have reduced the tax burden on the residents of the city of Buffalo because we knew at the end of the day, the people that were going to pay for that were those that rent. Those that will be defected the most. On the tax decrease, I agree with it. 4.19, I agree with that. On the revenue side, I have concerns. Just as the controller mentioned, we're relying on revenue that is a one time. $14 million from the reserve fund, $25 million from the ARP, that's a one time thing. That whole is going to be there next year. We're relying on other revenues that are not for example, the bed tax, it hasn't even been introduced to the state legislature. How are they going to prove anything if it's not even introduced and they finish their session in a couple weeks and it has to age in state committee as well. And you need sponsors in both houses, chambers and the senate. So we're relying on a number of the casino money. And the controller was right on. She's worried about the out years. This tax increase is nothing compared to what is going to happen in the future. Either they're going to have to make draconian cuts where it is going to hurt. We should have been making these cuts years ago. To our fault, we should have done it. And we pushed it down the road, we kicked the can down the road. That is going to catch up with us. I'm hopeful that this council will continue to find ways to, whether increase revenue or cut expenditures. If this was my household, we'd be bankrupt. I can't spend more than what I make. I have an income that I take to the house and I'm spending more than what I'm taking in. At some point, you're going to go bankrupt and that's exactly what the city. The city is looking at a control board if it does not change its fiscal practices. I am hopeful that we do get revenue. This council will support whether it's the county, whether it's the state, whether it's the federal government. To reduce the tax burden, but we need to right size this city for its budget. How do you right size the city? Well, you live within your budget. That's how you right size it. You can't live outside of what you have coming in, and that's what we've been doing for a number of years. Let me just say I'm happy for the. The residential rate payers, I'm happy for them. I'm happy for the council members that supported reducing the tax burden on the people. And we look to find ways to be more conservative on the cutting side. I think we need to be more conservative. We need to do better at cutting. As I said, we can be surgical, I'm compassionate, but I know we have to live within our means. And hopefully, we continue to do what we did here today and fight for the taxpayers. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for working with me with my concerns. I know I can be feisty, is what the Buffalo News likes to say. Maybe I am. I got to speak the truth though. They say that when you have a problem, you only address it when you hit rock bottom. The city of Buffalo will be hitting rock bottom if we do not have catastrophic change in revenues. It does not take Nancy Drew to solve this mystery. We have $40 million of non-recurring revenue. We overshoot. What we projected to get in income in various, in a multitude of ways, from cannabis, from real estate, from property tax, from sales tax, from a hotel tax, is just further masking the problem that we have. And we had a conversation where it said, well, if we don't have this in, eventually it's going to get caught. The fact of the matter is, The city government, either the common council in conjunction with the mayor can make decisions or a control board will come in here and start seeing numbers on a piece of paper and start cutting. They don't care who fills the chambers, they're not looking at the emotions. They're making hard core cuts. They're telling the city of Buffalo how much we need to raise in taxes. They're telling us what is cut. And to me, I have a huge problem with that because I'm elected to help make decisions and I am person enough to make those decisions to know that they're not going to be popular. But you have to do that to be a leader. That's the name of the game. I'm happy, the only good thing that's really coming out of this chamber tonight is that we were able to reduce the residential burden on the taxes for residents. And for point of clarification, that if somebody votes against this amendment, it's to vote against lowering the tax rate for residents. Plain and simple. No way to spin it in the media other than that, than the truth. We have serious decisions we have to make. The way that this fiscal budget is lined up is July 1st of this year to July 1st next year. We're going to be halfway in a budget cycle where revenues will drastically shore up. And I certainly don't want the city of Buffalo to be walking around with a coffee can asking for money to anyone that's willing to give. We need to have more dignity than that. But to say that someone is going to come here and save us is not true. Someone said that they're an architect of this budget, which is really right now could be a lead balloon. And the fact of the matter is, is these new budget practices and the fiscal position we're in is not new. We were here in 2020. We were saved by President Biden who was thankfully elected in 2020 in November that provided relief to the city of Buffalo halfway through our fiscal year. So we've had these pervasive problems. We've had vast structural, literally like a graph that we've done in elementary school. Expenses here going up, revenue staying the same. There's going to create a gap. The fact of the matter is we talk about in this chamber, oftentimes inflicting pain on the poor. The city not having money and revenue to invest in the city and to protect its citizens will inflict on the poor first. I encourage, not only encourage, I'll be demanding that all of us in this chamber work together to be creative, to not point fingers at one another, and to get real. We can't just be walking around in platitudes and tweets and in inscripted speeches. Because we have come a long way, the city has changed, time changes, people change, we all change, it's evolution. And there are good things that this chamber and the administration has done on the behalf of the city. But right now, we have serious problems. Thank you for the time, Mr. President. President Pro Tem Pullman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say that I will be voting in support of this budget. And I thank you and the leadership team for all their work in communicating with members. I don't vote for this budget, happy like we did something great here. Difficult decisions ahead. It's only getting harder as we look forward to next year, but I know voting no for this budget would allow the 9% tax increase to hit our residents. And it was important for me to work on this council to lower that burden to our residents. And I agree with colleagues that have stated that we really have to start making tough decisions on this council and look at everything top to bottom. So that's what I'm committing to do moving forward as we enter into very difficult budgetary times. This is a tough budget, it's only getting worse. We have $40 million of expenses that we don't Have this year and it's only getting worse. So I'm committed to doing the hard work and thank you for your leadership getting us through this budget. Council member Wyatt. Thank you. Aside from the earlier fiasco, it continues and I like all the nice speeches, but we didn't have to be here. We could have had some very good conversation before we got to this point increasing the tax cap. And all I'm glad that it was reduced to 4%, 4.19. The recommended amendments only come up to a net $506,000. So that's not really a big decrease from the budget. And as I've been saying, and I think we've been saying even when I was finance chair, we need deep cuts and we refuse to make those cuts. And I know we're all talking about next year, but I'm talking about this year. We've been talking about these suspect, suspect revenues that we know aren't going to materialize. We have very good information, and I said it during the hearings, but we still left that number in the books. And so, again, we talk about platitudes and tweets and all that, but at the end of the day, we know some factual information, and it still wasn't changed. And so again, we can talk a good game, but it's about showing the taxpayers that we're about the business of the city and making sure that we're on the fiscal side of responsibility, and we have yet to do that. Even as I go through the recommended budget amendments, if you look at line 34 in the information that was provided, it says the initial amount is 85,000. Well, actually the initial amount is $385,000. So the final amount is actually $2.3 million, $2.385. Then when we look at the solid waste amendments, I couldn't find those accounts. And maybe before we're finished that we can find where the $300,000 is coming from because those accounts don't seem to be listed in the book. And maybe I don't know what I'm talking about, but maybe someone can show me. And then the positions that we talked about cuts, those are not positions that were live positions or positions that were proposed. So one day we'll get serious and maybe it will be when the control board comes in and takes over because we continue to kick the can down the street, around the block, over the river and to the bridge. But at the end of the day, we can talk all that stuff, but what are we going to do? So I will not be voting for this. Because I didn't vote for the increase in tax cap, and I'm not voting for the suspect revenues that we all know aren't going to come through. So how do we with good conscience vote for something that we know is not going to happen? We talked about the bed tax. The bed tax is not even in the state legislature. $4 million. Then it's already been public information that the compact with the Seneca's will not be 11 million. So how do we put 11 million as revenues? So again, we know clearly That some of these things will not materialize, but we're going to vote for something that we know is not. And I know that some of my colleagues have said, well the budget is a if. Yeah, the budget is a if, but you also use good information in creating it. You just don't plop numbers on a page because you feel comfortable with them. That's what I've been hearing. I'm comfortable with that number. Well, I'm not comfortable with these numbers, and I still have questions. And when we get to the point where these numbers don't come through, then what do we do? We're already going to use our 14 million that we're supposed to have an amendment to say how we will punish it. Well, we can't even do that. And that was supposed to be included in this process, but I guess we didn't. Is that included? Is that something that we're going to get after the fact? Again, I'll be in the negative and thank you for the opportunity. Council Member Nowakowski. An element of that is very true. And I'm going to bring up another thing. For the record, anything that is last minute trying to be bum-rushed in this council will never happen again. So for that to be very noted to the record. The second is per the city charter, there does need to be a replenishment plan. And that needs to be put on the record here right now to adhere to our own charter to do this. If you can please add that in, Mr. President. Mr. President. Motion. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Majority Leader, I apologize. Thank you. As you know, this is my very first budget here on the council and first time also serving in leadership. And so I want to thank my colleagues for working with me. It's not my first time working on a budget, but I will say, for it to be the city, it's a little bit different than it was on the state level. I am grateful that we were able to get this down to the 4.19% for residential owners and that we fought as hard as we did for to maintain those essential services for our constituents. So that our constituents didn't have to carry the weight of this burden on their shoulders. It's unfortunate that we didn't get into this situation. Overnight, to be honest, my colleague and I just got here. We didn't create this scenario. This was a long time coming and one could say those who are financially astute should have been able to forecast that this day would come. Unfortunately, it took a global pandemic where many people's lives were lost. resources that came in that saved the city of Buffalo for as long as it had. During the negotiation process, we fought for a lot of things. You get some things and you lose some things. And a lot of those things that we really wanted, we didn't get. But there's other avenues that we have as a council. And so my hope is that as council members, we will use everything, all of our power, through the legislative means to go after those items through legislation and through other options that we may have available. I want to emphasize that a no vote for me is not an option because to do so would mean I'm turning my back on my district that voted me here. That's not okay for the Ellicott District. I'm not willing to place this burden on their shoulders solely. This $40 million deficit was burdensome. I went through every single line of this budget. I stayed here almost every night. um for three weeks and i read every single line and there's a lot of fluff and there's a lot of good stuff in there too and you can't find 40 million i don't care what you try to do in expenditures and revenue um and so my hope is that before next year that we are in intense and intentional in how we deal with resources and so until the state increases our aim over the flat funding of five million dollars that they gave us which I'm grateful for since 2012 until the county decides that it gives us its fair share in either providing resources or the services that it's put on our backs as a city of Buffalo and until the city is a better steward over what it has in its coffers and provides And we're better about how we manage our funds and that we operate more like we do. And as one of my colleagues mentioned, how we handle our own personal resources and we save more than we spend. We will find ourselves back in the same predicament again with nearly $65 million next year. I'm concerned. And so my hope is that over the next year that we think about how we operate, that we communicate effectively to our colleagues and to our constituents what we're going to do. How we're going to look at our funds, how we're going to manage those funds, and then we're willing to collectively tighten up our resources. I don't mind giving up a few things. We do it in our personal lives. Sometimes you got to use oodles and oodles that week. I don't know if y'all remember college. Other times you can eat well. I think this is a oodles of noodles time. We need to start thinking about how we're going to move forward. And we must save more than we spend. This pattern of fiscal spending has to end. And it's imperative that we adopt a sustainable approach to fiscal management and one that prioritizes more responsibility, transparency, and accountability. I'm grateful for my colleagues, I'm grateful that you've allowed me to serve in this capacity. And for those, my partners in leadership, this was not an easy process. I want to continue to collaborate with each of you as we continue to serve the people of Buffalo. And thank you, Mr. President. Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, Council President. First, thank you to leadership for your work on this. I know we've spent a lot of time going back and forth talking about this budget. But I just have to say as a new member and going through years past and looking through this budget, what has happened in these chambers is nonsense. I'm just going to be honest. I don't know how this has been carrying on for all these years. I am absolutely shocked. on behalf of the residents of the Madison District at the way this has been carried out for them. Yes, I said one of my non-negotiables was a 9% tax increase and I am grateful that it is at 4.1%, but as a council, it is our responsibility to protect the residents of the city of Buffalo. Financially and otherwise, and this city has not done that for them. All these years, I've spent night after night going through this book and books passed just to see what has been done and nothing has been done. This council has rubber stamped budgets year after year after year. And I'm grateful for the cuts that we're putting forward this year. But I just have to say that I hope that this council is awake now. I hope that we can work together. in the next couple years to get this under control because our residents should be mad. And we should be mad with them for this nonsense. I will definitely be voting in favor of this because I'm grateful that our residents will not have to burden this. Because this should not be their problem and I'm just looking forward to working with all of you to get this together for our people because this is not good. It's still not good. Thank you. Motion to close discussion. Motion to close discussion, seconded by Council Member Gormak. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. We can't. Excuse me. Council Member Watt. Can we approve it with the condition as the Finance Chair asked for the amendment? Yes, I apologize. Yep, absolutely. We'll motion to approve as amended with the recommendations of the Finance Chair. We'll put those on the record with the City Clerk. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number five, Mayor's Recommended Budget 2024-2025. Motion to approve as amended. Seconded by Council Member Golumbak. Item number six, Mayor's four-year financial plan. Motion to table. Receive and file. Receive and file. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Farrell-Leto. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. That's because you saw table there. I know, but why can't I say table after discussion? Who wrote it down? Don't put me in that position. Sorry. I'm so sorry. My mouth is terrible at night. I've had enough. That's all right. Thank you, sir.