of hope and life. Start looking for what maybe other groups and institutions are looking for, but signs of hope and life in the rhythm of Ecclesiastes. The sons of Issachar understood the times and seasons and knew what to do. The times that have rhythms, the times that have portions we wish we could eliminate, never experience, and certainly never want our kids to go. And then times we love, times we celebrate, times that are just the ones that give us energy for the next. But Father, in those rhythms, we have to experience both. Remember a plaque I used to have, all sunshine makes a death. Lord, you know that there have to be rainy times in our lives. And there have been some rainy times in our cities. I thank you for each of these two serves. I pray that in the rhythms that are ahead, they'll know which time they are in and what to do with that time. Help them to be wise stewards of their time. Help them to be wise stewards of the time of their constituents and of their children. And Father, thank you that even in the rhythm, even in the rhythms, you're there. The days that are deemed to us good, bad, and ugly, you're the ever-present. Thank you for your presence during the session today. Amen. Council Member Colombo. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside High School and the Riverside community lost a really, really good guy, Steve Toth, former phys ed teacher. Also was, I think he was assistant principal when I was teaching there in the late 1990s. He had been sick for quite some time and he passed away on May the 4th. He was just a good, good guy. I mean, generations of kids that I would run into, kids, people older than me, that had him as a football coach, as a coach there that remembered him, and he just will have a lasting legacy on the lives of many, many people. Also, Michael Ruff passed away, the beloved husband of 57 years to Judith Ruff. I grew up with the kids, Mike, Sherry, and Mark. Mr. Ruff is going to be very, very sorely missed by them and by many. Councilman Weill. Thank you, Council President Fridgen. I would ask the City of Buffalo to keep in their thoughts and prayers Mother Mary Lawson. She recently passed away this Sunday around 2 o'clock p.m. Mary Lawson is going to be a loss to the Maxton District as she was just a ray of sunshine to all of the residents over on her street, as well as a ray of sunshine at the Antioch Baptist Church. No one, and I'll say this humbly with all confidence, though, no one could hug like Mary Lawson. She was not a big woman, but she was a very, very strong woman. And when you were in her embrace, you could feel the love. And her embrace will be sorely missed, for she has always been one of our number one supporters, and not just the church, but the district as well. And those are the kind of people who, when they're gone, they'll leave not just a hole in your heart, they'll keep you. we're asking that the entire city of buffalo pray for the family of mary lawson temple to mack and just thank you and i know that this is um not one of our memorials but i do want to recognize that on yesterday the father of our university council member, Rashid Wyatt, was honored by Jesse Clipper of Hillary. And he received his dad's medals that he received. Rashid, and it was public, and he may have wanted to say it, but I disallow him to say it. I hope you allow me to do this. Knowing that Councilmember Wyatt, since he was 13 years old, he'd never seen his dad, because his dad died before he got, before he was able to meet his son. But even growing up, all I heard about was his dad, his dad, and I'm a little angry at him today because I did not know that there would be that ceremony yesterday, or else I definitely would have been here. So as we always honor our men and women, uniform and who have given their life today I would ask that this council would dedicate this meeting to was he a private private what's the whole name Norman C why you pausing these chambers thank you on a motion by mr. Revere second by mr. Candler the minutes of the stadium meeting held on May 14th 2019 are approved Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, and there is one that is coming around right now from Council Member Franczak. Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. I'm not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need time to read any of the late files that are before you. Go ahead. We want to take item motion to take item 53 out of order second by councilman Freeland 153 discharge item 19-5 79 motion to adopt second by councilman front and the top from the top. I I don't want a man lease agreement between City of Buffalo and grassroots gardens motion to approve items one through three Second my council members camera and a for sale of 201 Ellicott Street motion send the CD second by council member Lombok item five controls assessment of recommended 2019 2020 budget motion to send the finance chair my council member what? Council member friends I guess yes, just some brief comments about this. Mr. Chairman. I know it's going to committee but But what I see here is what I feared. You have parallel financial reports. It's a parallel universe. These are different reports, and it's troubling. I had a cautionary note about the second floor dominating different branches of government. Now I feel more convinced that is true. It's unfortunate. There's no reason for it. This is a brief cursory look at this. The original report in the introduction says, It's risky, quote unquote, to rely on revenue that appear uncertain. This has been replaced with this sentence. While the administration relies on some revenue sources that are untested, the pursuit of a new revenue stream is worthwhile and encourages growth. Completely different meaning. The old report talks about the fear of depleting the rainy day fund. That has completely been purged, omitted, and expurgated out of the new report. It's been taken out. that cautionary note. There's nothing on the Rainy Day Fund. Now here's the biggest difference of all. I hope the new report is correct on it, but I don't have the evidence for it. The original report signed by the current Comptroller, both documents signed, says that there's $21 million in revenues that are questionable. The new report says that there's $11 million of the report that is questionable. Why? The original report says that the casino revenue is an IOU that's not in hand. It says here in the original report, New York State itself, the state has not included any casino funds in its own budget for the upcoming fiscal year and has recommended that host municipalities do not either. The new report says the state has included revenue in its 2019 and 20 budget for the upcoming fiscal year and has continued to include the formula for host municipalities who do the same. This one says they have. This one says they haven't. What's the truth? How do we know? Where is the truth? What are we getting here? Where does it say in the new report where this information is coming from? You know, I heard about alleged conversation with the governor and so forth. The conversation is not a filing. It is not an official action. You know, a private conversation. It's true. I hope it's true. But how can, you know, one says the state has booked it, the other one says they haven't. There's different language throughout this document. And I just read it in a cursory manner as we've gotten it. The city has received only $4 million in revenue for the past five years. And so they say that we have to be conservative in the old report. Conservative approach. This report says the administration budgeted $7 million in real estate sales and only took in $883,000. So the timing of sales and closing is critical. It's not even a cautionary note. It's very different from this original report. It says these revenues should not be booked. They have concerns regarding its inclusion in the budget. This does not say that. This has taken that out. Under gifts and donations, it talks about, the original report talks about approvals needed from the office of the New York State Comptroller. It's contrary, what this gifts and donations section that was budgeted in our budget is contrary to public policy and therefore not properly municipal function State Comptroller's words. That has been completely taken out of this new report. That cautioner note has been removed. Completely. No New York State controller warning. The rental dwelling registry in the old report, this talks about zombie property. This new one takes out zombie property 100%. There's nothing mentioning it, which is a big problem. Parking meters revenue. The old report says we have to be mindful that in cold weather months, revenue is down, so we might be booking too high. This one takes it out. It doesn't say anything about cold weather. The old report says that on overtime, which is huge, savings in overtime could be wiped out by additional overtime costs, which are budgeted at $17.4 million, despite recent trends indicating an expense significantly more than that amount. It could be exceeding. This one says, the wording here is significantly more than that amount. It says recent trends indicate. This one says, does not say that it's over the amount. This one says could exceed those amounts. It throws in a, it waters it down. It whitewashes it. This is a whitewash report. It waters it down. We want factual information. You know, but I don't know how there could be such discrepancies. There was a section of judgment and claims in the old report. There's no section whatsoever in judgment and claims. Nothing about that. And this old report says it's $2 million under budget. And this one just takes it up. Now, this is serious here. On the fund balance, the old report, the original report, talks about $107 million in reserves having been depleted over the past eight years. potentially needed for the current fiscal year. The amount of reserves used to close the budget gap would be about $120 to $135 million. It says it totally takes out the fact that $107 million reserves have been used up. That has been taken out of here. It has been taken out. That whole number, there's no number here. It's been taken out. So this is a whitewashing. There's no question of that, by a degree. You can't have one branch of government constantly dominating or trying to dominate the other branch of government. I mean, she's got nothing to lose. You know, she could have a term and could be a true independent. You don't have to take, you don't have to do something like this. It's not necessary. And I don't see where it is. Now here's the final conclusion. This is very important. They once again go to these numbers. The old report says we have a $20 million revenues that are questionable. This new report says $11 million. That's mostly based on the casino revenue. But I don't see any reference. If we get the money, I want us to get the money. I hope the new report is right about that. But you can't say it unless you have confirmation of it. I'd like to know where in the state where they say they should book it. Now here is the kicker. in the conclusion. So any shortfall of actual revenues will have a negative impact on services and or further deplete the city resources. Their ending changed that sentence and took it out. They wrote, we believe this budget proposal for the most part is a sound spending plan. which relies on reoccurring new and needed sources of revenue. So if I were the second floor, I would just love this, which they undoubtedly wrote this. Now, why would I even suggest that? You've got the young gentleman, very nice gentleman. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Dowell, Delano Dowell Sr., worked in the city budget office, and I understand if I'm correct, if I'm wrong, correct me, now works in the controller's office. So what do you expect, except getting that kind of information? Now if there's something in this original report that needs updating or correcting, show us where that is. But you changed the whole tone of this. And what I urge is a strong cautionary note to this body. I mean, most of you will be returning in the first of the year. You'll have a full four-year term. You've earned it. You're working hard. You need to show a jaundiced eye in any report that comes, because if the controller's report is essentially a mirror image of the mayor's report, the city's in trouble. And not putting out a controller's report that's just a contra-document. We don't want a contra document. We want a document based on the best available facts and truth. Even if it's a little tougher, that's better because we should be super vigilant, conservative, even aggressive when it comes to our finances because we know the danger of falling back into a control board. We know the danger of looking at things through rose-colored glasses based on the dominance of one branch of government over another. You have been given this opportunity in the next four years. to look at these things with a very, very critical eye. And if this is the kind of work we're going to get out of the Comptroller's Office, this Council needs to hire its own... auditors and people that can look at this and assume that these assumptions are either correct or incorrect. So I think we're, you know, I was very pleased and happy when the Comptroller put this out originally. He says, well, you know, there could be some independence here. But when I saw this and I heard rumors of some contrary report, then I said, oh, here comes the whitewashing, here comes the rose-colored glasses, here comes a a report that's gonna make the second floor, I don't want to make the second floor feel good or bad. I want us to have the truth and serve the people of the city of Buffalo wherever that lies, wherever the chips may fly. I hope they're right. I hope that what they say is true. We work with them. But the fact is you can't have this kind of mirroring of something that is giving us a sugar-coated, watered down, whitewashed reality. I mean, these two, these are two different documents and that is, should trouble, that should trouble not only us but everybody in the City of Buffalo who's concerned about the fiscal health and strength of the city. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, and Mr., Councilman Franczette, all of your comments I do note it. The, if there's another, I'm going to have to ask you, there's no applause. This is the reason it is going to committee and it will be vetted in the committee and we are inviting the controller and controller staff to be here to be able to understand why the two reports And just what you said, I mean, at the end of the day, it is about truth. It's about facts. It's about numbers. That's what's in front of us. We need to know them. This council, I think, in these last years or, I mean, since I've been here, has been very independent to be able to look at those without any apology because it is our job. So we'll be going to committee. Thank you, Council Member. Next slide. Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry. Yep. Council Member Fontenot. So we'll see why the report has changed. Hopefully there's new information that could be defended on the changes. And if it's not defended, then we have to ask the question, why was it changed? I think it's important that we keep an eye on the spending. Unfortunately, finances could be going towards a more negative fashion, using your fund balance over the years. More negative forecast for maybe pension costs coming down the road Joe Dave and myself remember the very very lean years of the old 1 0 2 0 3 and 0 4 budgets that were very very Lean, but only essential jobs in those budgets. We didn't have some of the thrills Any thrills at all? There's no frills budget? So those are tough budgets to go through. We're going to look at these numbers, this report, see what the differences are, and we'll do that Tuesday at 10 o'clock next Tuesday here in the chambers in the Finance Committee. We always get a good cadre of council members. Council Member Wyatt does an excellent job with his questions all the time. I call him my co-chairman, and I look forward to all the council members being there. Absolutely. And what the council had the option to do is just receive a file. We didn't do that because to make sure that it was discussed. We also have a report from Moody's that we'll be going through as well. Moody's has called out, I think, 11 points within our budget process that we have to look at. So we will be going point by point on the Moody's questions. This council has historically talked about all of these issues. We've talked about the real estate line. Mr. Wyatt talks till he's blue in the face about that real estate line He's always on top of that so many of these items this counts these council members are talking about on a daily basis We'll continue to talk about those Maybe it's up to us to show the new controller where these issues lie. I mean we have a new controller and We have the experience of being here on the council doing this budget for many of you many, many years. So our comptroller is new. Maybe it's give and take between this committee and the comptroller where we have to work together to show her where our concerns are. And I think that's a key point. Okay. Thank you. Next item. Item 6, appoint executive assistant. Motion to receive and file items 6 through including 7. I'm going to council member for your letter. Item 8, changing contract. C.D. Smith. Thank you. Motion to approve items 8 through 20. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 21, appoint exterminator. Motion to send civil service item 21 and 22. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 23, alternative response vehicles for Buffalo Fire Department. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 24, appoint resiliency grants manager. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Bruton. Item 25, used car dealer 534 Colvin. Motion to send legislation items 25 and 26. Seconded by Council Member Friulotto. Item 27, approval to enter into contract towing services. Motion to approve items 27 through 29. Seconded by Council Member Friulotto. Item 30, may I report it out of state? Motion to receive and file items 30 through 33. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item 34, notice of a permanent temporary provisional permit. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item 35, SEQR neg decked. 44, Brayton. Motion to adopt items 35 through 37. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 38, update of sinkholes and water line problems, 361 High Street and Environs. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 39, request for moratorium on Michigan Avenue. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 40, posterior submissions, hearing of complaints on tentative telecom ceilings. Motion to receive and file items 40 through 42. Settled by President Pro Temp. Scantler. Petitions item 43, 3053 Main Street for Tavern. Motion to send legislation to City Planning Board items 43 through 49. Settled by Council Member Farrell. Item 50, petition to rename Dog Park. Motion to send legislation second by council member friends committee civil service item one Motion to approve items number one two three four and five my calls were fun Ten I have six nos appointment temporary provisional permit receiving five Thank you by customer review Finance Committee item seven cash flow report March 2019 The no objections motion now to receive in file seven through and including ten second by the majority leader of here community development committee item 11 DDA Hispanic Heritage Council development item 11 Sorry, I was just going over something with Mr. Franczak. Item number 11 can be approved, as can 12, as well as item 12. Say back house remember Wingo under 13 vehicles over five tons on Cambria motion to receiving files I'm my cousin friends. I'm 14 move school board elections to June Yeah, this is I apologize. I missed the last council meeting there. We have a little medical issue But this is the one that I always start by saying here we go again It's like Groundhog Day. I'm looking for Bill Murray to show up once again. I I remember the first time I did this resolution, it was to move our school board elections from May until the November election, and it was either in 2001 or 2002. I forget the exact date right now, but at that point there was almost no traction whatsoever. Everybody was against it. There were a handful of community groups that supported it, but generally it was vehemently opposed. But as the years have gone on, there's been different groups in different parts of the city of Buffalo that have said and got on board with the idea of moving the school board elections into November. I think the school board election turnout was 6.6% in the last election. We hear on a regular basis about we need to do things to make it easier for people to vote. We need to have polling places open longer. We need to have early voting. We need to have things to make it easier for everybody to vote. 6.6%, and that's just of the people that are registered to vote in the city of Buffalo. If it's actually of all the people that could be eligible to vote, you're probably talking about 1% or 2%. of the total population and if that doesn't mean that it's political i don't know what does and what i mean by that is is that normally in every election you have special interest groups that are out there that are pushing for their candidates when you only have to control one or two percent of the total vote in the city of buffalo it's simple to get your people elected uh... this needs to be moved into november i hope that more people will get on board with this I hope that the Assembly and the Senate will approve. I believe Assemblywoman Crystal Peoples has something in front of them that's waiting to be adopted or approved. But this is something that's a no-brainer. If we had more people voting, you know, we constantly talk about we want more democracy. We moved the primary election into June. We sent people out in February, March, and April in sub-zero, sub-division. freezing weather to get signatures because we were told that that was going to allow more people to be involved, more people to be active, more people to participate. And the reality is that we talk out of, I think, the people in Albany talk out of both sides of their mouth. They give us lip service while at the same time that they could just simply approve the legislation that's there and move the school board elections into November. I hope that this is the last time that I have to do one of these resolutions, and not because I'm going to be passing on, Mr. President, but because I hope that it finally gets approved because of the ground swelling of support that people throughout every neighborhood and every community in the city of Buffalo have about moving these school board elections into November. Motion is to adopt. Thank you, sir. I hope this is your last time, too, because I think I've heard it every year. Yes. Has it been every year since I've been elected? It has. Yeah, I think it started in 01 or 02. Second. Second. You hope this is last time, too. Thank you, Mr. Golombak. So is that being forwarded to our state delegation? Yes. Okay. All right. Let's move. Second by Councilman Francis. I'm sorry. Montana. I'm sorry. Next item. Item 15, Flora Buffalo Supporting Documents. Motion to receive and file. Thank you, Council Member Fontana. Item 16, Community Centers Lease Agreements. This item is open. The Corporation Council wanted to speak. All right. We'll open it up for Corporation Council. No. Okay. No. No. Why don't we recommit? Yes. No. Wrong item. Recommit it. Did you want to send it back to the committee? Okay. I mean, I wasn't going to. Is everybody okay with this move forward? Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. I do believe that Corporation Council Tim Ball was here last week and spoke on the matter and entertained questions from the council members. So I believe that most of the concerns were addressed then and he believed that it was good to send it forward. I would be fine with receiving filing unless somebody else wants to keep this in front of us. You've got to prove it. This is approval. Okay. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Legislation Committee, Item 17, Food Store License 778, Genesee. Item 17 and 18, motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Prenton. Item 19, Secondhand Dealer, 1799, a.k.a. 1801, South Park. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 20, Used Car Dealer, 1261, Hurdle. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. by councilmember the lumber item 21 special use to 20 Lexington there are no objections items 21 through and including 23 motion to approve my customer I'm 24 ordinance member chapter 277 mortgage and default property registry motion receiving files and my customers can item 25 zoning map amendment 1318 Niagara motion to recommit second by councilmember of your item item 26 local law intro 2 amend article 31 flood damage uh motion receiving file because we have a late file in the right right all right second by customer for your loan item 27 2018 food store license renewals motion to receive and file second by council member white item 28 used car dealer license 160 average motion to deny with cost Second by Councilmember Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Councilman President. There are several reasons for the denial of this renewal today. The first being the failure of the applicant to comply with housing codes and the failure of the applicant to comply with the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Department of Permits and Inspections. The second reason is community concerns in the form of calls to my office and conversations I've had with people throughout the district. And in addition to that, housing violations that have not been rectified despite months and months of housing court cases. The third reason being a question of ownership. As of a trace, from a trace as of 12 p.m. today, Mr. Khalil, Khalil is still listed as the sole operator and owner of the property, of the business. There is some talk, there was some talk of a family member taking over the business, but as per Chapter 254 of our city code, no such license shall be transferred from one person to another, so they cannot transfer that license. And finally, the fourth reason is a process problem and the fact that I've been unable to engage the applicant during this renewal process because he is currently incarcerated and will be for the next handful of years. So for that reason, we're denying the license. Did you say he had property, other properties? The name sounds familiar. Yeah. um the violations are on that property and there's on this property correct yes um i do believe there were other properties which we can discuss almost sure there are other properties and other problems so he's trying to renew while he's incarcerated correct okay that'll be interesting you'll second second by councilmember fontana Resolutions. Item 51, home rule request A5166S4911, sale of bonds and notes. Motion to adopt items 51 and 52. Second by Councilman Fronten. item 54 fee waiver of school number 31 field day ocean took provide miss 54 and 55 my cousin friends are 56 local I intro number three amending article 24 motion to send legislation and my customer white 157 Hispanic heritage corridor banners motion to approve my customer window and 58 discharge item 19 775 from community hall controllers budget response motion to adopt my council member your little item 59 ordinance member chapter 96 bonds and contracts motion send legislation my cousin for your letter I'm 60 ordinance member chapter 277 mortgage and default property registry motion to approve item 60 and through 62 and my cousin are the long bit 163 commissioner deeds public duties motion to them saying my cousin my wife I am 63 a local I enter number two amending article 31 flood damage prevention motion some finance my cousin I think we could approve that. Yeah, because we went through a lot of meetings. We had neighborhood meetings, and then Mr. Finn was in caucus today with that fee. He said it's like the same fee like for small devices. So it's like $250 if a developer wants to do something in the floodplain area. So we have to approve this. So, you know, we don't get penalized by the federal government, basically. And it doesn't affect any homeowners. Because I know Councilman Fontana and Scanlon attended a meeting some time ago in Mr. Finn's office. We had a public meeting at the Valley Community Center recently, and you and I spoke about this. So I think we can move forward, don't you? Councilman Fontana, on this floor. Did the numbers make the document? Are we okay with the numbers? The numbers I have here... This is from Mr. Fenn. It says the current application fee for a floodplain development permit is $26.50, which is not adequate to cover DPW's expense for review. All right. Review is extensive as prescribed in chapter Inch in the Charter and the DPW recommends that the application fee be set at two to two hundred and fifty dollars Which will cover the effort required for the complete review in most cases The two hundred fifty dollar fee is also consistent with the small cell application Which has an extensive review similar to the floodplain fell and those reviews are important that they're done properly and correctly and they have to be reflect the actual cost of doing business and in my opinion the 250 does reflect the actual cost of doing business any other unreadiness this i don't do you like you like for it to be approved and not sent to committee is that yeah so you want to resume with those fees now the uh those fees are in the new item right uh karen assistant corporation comes to karen gordon yes um the fees that Mike Finson this morning are now included in the floodplain map local also. um and i think that's what we substituted so that's yeah we saw look yeah she didn't file the other item yes that's correct and just procedurally is it signed by the mayor no we don't need a signature by the mayor because unless um the common council determined at this point that it's a significant change or are from the original that we don't need it to be sent to the mayor right now for immediate passage Once this is approved by the Common Council, it will then be sent to the mayor and be placed on his desk for the next 10 days for him to determine if he wants to sign it or not. Okay, so being a local law, making a change at the council meeting, will we have to send that to committee to age for two weeks? Well, it has been in committee for the past two months. Right. So it has aged, I would say significantly. It has since the change was made, it would have to re-age. If any change is made to a local law, it has to re-age, but is there a stipulation that this doesn't have to for some particular reason? So the re-aging has to do with whether or not the change is considered to be significant. So the question for the Common Council would be, do you consider the change in the fee amount as a significant change that is so diversely different you know, from the body of the document itself, that it would be necessary to go back and review it again. I think there's so few that would be paying. It's not something that's going to be readily accessible to many, many people that pay the bills. I don't think we'd quite have a challenge on that, so I think we're okay at this point. It's the same law with the fees attached to it. The former law did not have the... former law did not have the fees attached to it the previous um local law that we were operating under had a fee there was a fee there it was very low it was 26 dollars which was the case probably over more than a decade ago um a decade later i'm sure cost and the cost of doing business is significantly different has changed a lot And as Acting Commissioner Mike Finn has explained in his email, he thinks that based on the extensive review and process that goes into this, that the original fee is subpar. That's why he has requested a new fee. All right. I'll second it. Thank you. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Fontana. Motion is now to approve. The motion now is to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Next item. René DeHol. Item 64, Controllers Budget Response 2019-2020. Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Fairlough. You wanted to revisit item 52, is it? Motion to revisit item 52. Second by Council Member White. Lovejoy District School Fee Waiver. We have it. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Fontana. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Not to make pretty readings. Regular committees, committee on civil service, Tuesday, June 4th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, June 4th, 1 p.m. Committee on community involvement, Tuesday, June 4th, 2 p.m. Special committees, committee on police oversight, Tuesday, June 11th, 10 a.m. Councilmember, is there any announcements for your district? Councilmember Wyatt. I just want to invite the residents of the University District and the City of Buffalo to our fifth annual University United Festival, which is taking place on June 8th, Saturday, June 8th, at Rotary Field across from VA Hospital. It's been a huge, huge event every year. So excited for our artists who are coming to town, Jeffrey Osborne and Genuine, get early. It's going to be packed. Secondly, I'd like to invite the residents of the University District to volunteer for Eight Days of Hope. You go to eightdaysofhope.com to help the 100 families in the district who will be blessed by their efforts in roofing and siding. Whatever you can offer, it would definitely be appreciated by Eight Days of Hope. They have about 400, 500 families who are coming from across the country from 20 states to help volunteer in the city of Buffalo to help families in need repair their homes. So if you want to volunteer and be a blessing to someone in the district, please go to 8daysofhope.com. Thank you. All right, that's a huge event, 8 Days of Hope to help people in the district. Yes. Councilmember Wiggold and Councilmember Franzen. Thank you Mr. Chair. I just want to make sure that the community is aware that the famous Mastin District stakeholders meeting will not be the second Saturday in June. This is the only month out of the year that we do not have our stakeholders meeting in a an observance of our juneteenth celebration so for all of our viewers all of those folks who come out every month to enjoy great information and a great meal we will not be having that meeting this month an observance for our juneteenth so that meeting is canceled but we will resume bright and early in june in july yes sir thank you very much thank you sir comes my friends uh thank you mr chairman um this week we celebrate uh gay pride week especially for the whole Buffalo community and the LBGTQ community in particular, and the whole Buffalo community in general. Back in the 1960s, gay people were being arrested, they were being harassed. It was a different world, and we've hopefully come a long way. So part of the celebration includes the Buffalo Dyke March, which will be this coming Saturday. That's coming up. What date is Saturday? Can you see it on your calendar there, Dave? I just want to make sure I give the date. Saturday would be the 25th. June, it's June 1st. June 1st. June 1st. June 1st on Saturday, and on Sunday is the Gay Pride Parade. which is a really great parade. It's a huge parade. I've walked the parade, and so it's just a very nice parade to attend. So hopefully folks will be able to come out and enjoy that for the entire weekend of celebrations. And as I like to point out, that the first gay marriage performed in Buffalo and Erie County was by my brother, then Erie County Court Judge Tim Proksek. Thank you. And Mike Kuzma in my office helped with all the arrangements. Who's an attorney? Motion. Motion to adjourn. Sir, do you think that the application is like this?