Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Belumbeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Council Member Rivera. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member White. Here. Warren present. Stand for it. Pledge. Pledge made.
 of the United States of America. It is the duty of our public, of those who stand, of our nation, of our God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Wonderful to be with each of you on a lovely BUP today. It was two weeks ago to welcome Bishop Malone, President
 It's appropriate to have that fatherly voice of the Catholic Bishop of the Reef come and be part of us. So I'll try to do that on a regular basis now. But it turns out we have one more bishop before all bishops may before us here in the chamber. This is my friend, Bishop John Paul Tiaf.
 You know that Debbie and I were in Liberia in February. And during that time, Bishop Booth asked us to meet with a speaker from the Philadelphia. And he told this chamber that I'd met the chaplain general of a nation. This, indeed, is the chaplain general of the nation of Liberia. I told him I'm a chaplain private on a good day, but here's the chaplain general of a nation.
 Yes, access to the president. The vice president. The vice president.
 have run for the last 20 plus years. Has 85 children, in a nation that struggled with civil war and Ebola, there are tens of thousands of orphans, and this couple, we've been to the orphanage and watched them as they were teaching those children just a place that's safe but light-skilled. So for lunch today, I took them to Emerson Commons.
 I wanted him to be able to see that young people can be in a place where they productively learn jobs and life skills. So today I ask that you do a little mass prayer. I want to remind you that on Friday night, we are going to center Pentecost together. We expect probably 15 or so thousand people to join us for that meeting of that people. Thank you. Great. Thank you very much. I'm happy to be here today from the Library of West Africa.
 My best friend asked me to be here. And before I say something, when I see people of God standing, it shows that God has a plan and purpose for this city. And God is living up to you to bring more and more what is in you to make sure that you take this city to the best of all cities in the great United States. God, I thank you for today.
 For you have put in these great men and women together to work for your kingdom. That I pray for your wisdom upon them, Lord. Let them not do their own will, but let them dwell in the wisdom of God. That I pray that you lead them.
 direct them so that they will always get a right position that will bring improvement in their city. I cover them with the blood of Jesus. No weapon found against them shall prosper. God, may you continue to lead them that they will continue to be fruitful, and this city will continue to rise and rise to the glory of God. In Jesus' name, let everyone say amen. Amen. God bless you. Thank you, sir, and welcome to the chamber.
 Council Member's memorials. Council Member Golombe. Thank you, Mr. President. We lost actually a great Buffalonian this past week, Mr. Al Lito. Al was a very, very good tennis player, and he ended up marrying one of the Grace girls from Grace's funeral home.
 and made his home in Riverside. Was a volunteer, was a coach, was a mentor to children and young people throughout the entire region, but in particular in the Riverside area. Also, we lost Derek Szabo, fellow just a couple of years older than me, grew up on Newfield Street. He lives behind his mother and sister.
 And last but certainly not least, Bob Svetko. Bob was 96 years young. He was the former bartender at the Probation Club, which we now, which a group of friends of mine and I now own, but he was a World War II veteran. He did duty in the Pacific Theater.
 He came back to Buffalo, worked at Woodwire, and then from 1961 to 1996, he worked as the bartender at the Croatian Club. So 35 years, I've got 14 more years, and I'll tie his record. But Bob is going to be very, very sorely missed by many, many family and friends that he made throughout the years. Mr. White? I'm praying for the...
 family of Sandra Dean Johnson-Jones. She was a very active block club president for Kensington Block One. She was very active, her and her husband. One of the first people I met who I can't compliment was her. She asked me a lot of questions and had a lot of expectations.
 But that's what block club leaders do. They ask for people to make sure that they're going to be on point and making sure that their community is going to be safe and clean. She was an active person in Terpio Place, one of the corridors on Backstreet in the Kiziklin area, in which she got a...
 not dispose of garbage signs up. And just a wonderful woman. She will be missed. Her husband, her family, that they will be blessed that they remember her. Council Member Woodward. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We would like to acknowledge the family of Dora Parker. She passed away yesterday.
 Her and her husband were together, Lawrence Parker were together for over 60 years. She was a faithful resident in our community. She was also a faithful member at the Antioch Church. We also lost Derek Hill.
 the husband of one of our faithful community members as well, Stevenson Portland. And we just want the families to know that they are in our thoughts and in our prayers and that we will be mourning their loss for a while. Thank you. I also remember Lonnie who was one of the owners of the new Humboldt Inn back in the
 Neighborhood lounges were popular in Buffalo. The New Humboldt Inn was probably one of the most popular places where people would go. It's been realized from the True Bethlehem Church this week, or last week, but remember all of these persons who have been called.
 And of course, men and women across this world who have given their lives, especially in this Memorial Day time, this council recognizes them at every meeting since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 This being Memorial Day, right after Memorial Day, Art, you have a special presentation. Art is our resident veteran and everything else, and I have a wonderful display of...
 flags that the council staff gave me a few Memorial Days of all of the military branches and then a very special one that Art gave me, found it in a garage sale and thought about me and so to all of those who have lost members and their family, we actually dedicate this meeting to you guys today. On a motion by Ms. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on May 16, 2017
 are approved. All the late files are before us. Gentlemen, are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objection to any of the late files that are before you, we will hear the entire agenda as is before us, which does not take away your right as we are going through the meeting to object to any of the late files that come before you if you have not had time to review them. From the top. Item 1, African American Cultural Center Phase 1, Environmental. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item 2, LDA for True Community Development Corporation. Motion to send the CD items 2 and 3. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 4, Third Quarter Gap Respond. Motion to send Finance. Second by Councilmember White. Item 5, Group Ministries Inc. Opiate Use Recovery Center. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 6, Request Public Hearing Citywide Property Revaluation Project.
 Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item 10, request approval of contract extension citywide revaluation project. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Frieletto. Item 8, current base proportions 2017 roll. Motion to send to finance items 8 and 9. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 10, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And waive the 45 days. Thank you, sir.
 Item 11, acceptance of donation for O'Kell Park. Motion to approve items 11 through 19. Second by Councilmember, fear not. Item 20 has been withdrawn. Item 21, reported bids, engine 28.
 Motion to approve items 21 through 27. Second by President Pro Tems. Item 28, indemnification involved with the catchment of BPD surveillance camera relay. A motion to approve her Corporation's Council's review. Thank you.
 All right. Second by. So it's approved with their review? With their review. They were supposed to get back to us on the indemnification to the city of Buffalo, but they hadn't had an opportunity to get back to us. So if the review doesn't occur, is it still approved? Well, this is a camera that the city wants to put in a parking lot.
 And we wanted to talk about the indemnification of its city-owned surveillance camera, the maintenance of the camera, and those kinds of questions, responsibilities. And we asked Corporational Counsel to provide us with an explanation. They have not gotten back to us, and I certainly don't want to delay this.
 But I would like to put them to the reviewer because normally the Corporation Council looks to reduce the city's liability in terms of everything has to be dotted and dot the I's and cross the T's. But in this particular case, we still have not heard from Tim Ball. So is there a way that you – now, I did instruct Malcolm to start a list of those things that we asked for.
 that could be a part of the record, or do you want to... Could we approve it and send it to a committee? We can approve it, but to approve it, then send it to committee, I don't know. I defer to Corporation Counsel. And you're okay with this being approved now? I'm fine with being approved. What I'd like for is for Corporation Counsel to review this and get back to us on the indemnification, the cost...
 maintenance of the camera, it's on private property. So what I want to do is to begin starting a vehicle so that when we're asking for this kind of stuff, it doesn't just kind of go away. Right. And I know that we have an item. So I guess what we can do is file this new database that will be worked on, just file it every meeting and all of those items that are on there that we're waiting for that have a date. Do we have a date of when we might be able to?
 of when we'll get this approved. All right, so let that be a part of that database. I just, I think we've got to do better in following up, because when we did budget, we were asked for a lot of stuff. I understand the law department has a lot on their table. However, I mean, this is something we have requested. Absolutely.
 And certainly I'd rather have that information in front of us. So since we, according to conference counsel, we can't send it to committee and approve, so we can approve it and then direct for an item to be filed that would start this kind of database to follow up. Okay. Is that good? Good deal. I like it. Great. Makes sense. All right. Usually we don't, it would go to...
 Committee for conversation on an item is there something pending what I'm being told is permission was to be got item six I don't want to start the president commissioners in Council meeting unless there is a time element of why we would need to hear on this item now All right, what is the information that can be it's going to committee where it's going to finance But it could that information be shared in finance or is there reason we would hear it in the council the purpose was to
 Sorry. Martin Kennedy, Commissioner of Assessment and Tactation. Purpose of our being here was to introduce you to gentlemen, firms that are conducting our revaluation.
 and to answer any questions that the council members may have. So because it's not time-sensitive, I think that it should be in the finance meeting. But because you're here, why don't you introduce them? We'll give them that respect while they're in the council. But it should definitely be in a committee meeting where those questions could be asked. Thank you, Mr. President. Again, Martin Kennedy, Commissioner of Assessment and Taxation. I'm here together with Maria Garozo-Payne, our principal assessor.
 Brian Sullivan, our supervising assessor, and we're bringing to the council, and we will bring back to the council, Joe Eminger, the town of Tonawanda supervisor, as well as the principal of E&PM appraisal firm, and Bob Kasser, principal of KLW. Thank you. Who contracted with our department together with the GAR Associates.
 to do the reveal project. Thank you. And the Chairman of Finance is here, so he will give you that opportunity, I assume, on Tuesday to get into the nitty-gritty of it. And welcome to the chambers. Thank you, Mr. President. All righty. Next item. Item 29. Agreement Firearms Training BPD SWAT Team. Motion to approve. I'm sorry. Peter went out. Some staff. Peter just went out.
 All right. Second by, matter of fact, now it's taking pictures of people. So the picture of you, Joel, just now. I don't know what happened. Second by Council Member Watt. Next item. Item 30, appoint civilian school crossing guard. Motion to send to civil service. Civil crossing guards? I didn't know that. Second by President Pro Tem Scam. Item 31, boost our license 441 Fillmore. Motion to send to ledge.
 second by council member friends that 32 amendment to agree with workforce development corporation motion to approve items 32 through 37 second by councilmember columbus 38 port of ethics minutes motion to receive and file items 38 through 41 second my customer of columbus 42 notice department counseling turn motion to adopt I
 Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Miscellaneous items, item 43, concerns acquiring properties 1242, 1246, 1252, Sycamore. Motion is sent to CD and Strategic Planning. Second. And to the Mayor, is there a wish?
 Mayor, should we just depile the mayor's speech by way? Second by Councilmember Franz. Item 44, DEC Brownfield Cleanup, Public Comment 980, Elicut. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 45, Concerns Land Trust for Affordable Housing. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Councilmember Furlow. Item 46, Letter to Eminem and Battam. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 47, Notice of Order, Intersection Pearl and West Copper. Motion to receive and file. Item 47, Notice of Order, Intersection Pearl and West Copper.
 Second by Councilmember Villalba. Petitions. Item 48, use 1140 Delaware to convert building. Motion to send item 48 and 49 to ledge and city planning board. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 50, conserve speeding vehicles on East of Pew Avenue. Motion to send to CD and DPW. Second by Councilmember Gorman. Committees. Civil service. Item 1, appoint associate tax clerk.
 Motion approved. Motion approved. Item number one through number three. Second by the majority leader. Item four, notice of appointments, temporary or provisional permit. Motion to receive and file. Second by the majority leader. Item five, possible police benevolent association concerns. Send that to finance. Second by President Prokosem-Skilling, who hands the floor. Can we also have that sent to police oversight? And to police oversight? Absolutely. Or death to police oversight? Just one.
 Oh, you want to send it, right, because you've got to go to one or the other? You want to have police oversight? Oh, yeah, feel free. Yeah, I think it's, yeah, it's probably better for police oversight. Police oversight. I divide the majority of the area. Finance Committee, item six, request permission to amend contract. Motion to approve six and seven. Say goodbye, President Protell.
 8. Concerns, Parks and Recreation, Adult League Fees. 8 through and including 11. Motion now to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Community Development Committee. Item 12. Appoint Member Commission on Citizens' Rights and Community Relations. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Legislation Committee. Item 13. Lodging House 2473 Bailey. Motion to approve. Items 13, 14, and 15. Second by Council Member Ferrioletto. Item 16. Restaurant Bans.
 Class 345 West Chippewa. Motion to approve with conditioning. Second by Council Member Fairlund. Item 17, second hand dealer, 1942 Seneca. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombi.
 Item 18, Sidewalk Cafe, 45 West Chippewa. Motion to approve with condition. Second by Council Member Blumberg. Item 19, Appealing Preservation Board decision for 980 Ellicott. 19 and 20, motion to receive in five. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 21, use 1488 hurdle for outdoor dining. 21 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve.
 to approve second by council member item 22 request support and opposition of non-residents carrying firearms items 22 23 and 24 motion to receive and file saying my customer item 25 food store license 859 fillmore motion to deny with cause with cause stated you unstated for the record yeah the cause where the property uh was posted by mr seoul director division of license
 for the sale outside of the property of illegal merchandise, which the police have been alerted and neighbors had alerted may have been a front for selling untaxed cigarettes, marijuana, and other contraband. And those are the reasons.
 Pictures were taken and posted of the activity. Thank you, sir. And after Vince Faraccio, the inspector, posted the cease and desist, the same day someone had gone in there and tore it right off. So those are the comments. Good job. Thank you, sir.
 Item 26, concerns, 859, Fillmore. 26, 27, and 28, motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Glumbeck. Item 29, please 110, Genesee, direct the billboard sign. 29, I think the Council President, do you want this approved pending the Planning Board action? And for the record, I know that this current, that this sign would not meet green code as it is now.
 in fairness to the developer, who this was already in the pipeline before the green code, and the holdup was not the developer. And I think we have to take each case as it comes before us.
 The holdup was the sign company and getting the information over to us. They did redo the sign to make it look more like the historical district that it was in. I know that there are those in the planning board who are not thrilled about us
 approving this they can if they don't want to prove it that's okay with independent by and i think that there are certain times that you have to look at something in the fair with an applicant if they already have their application in this this has been on our table for a while and the
 building owner who has done a great job redoing this building, put millions of dollars into it, I don't think that it would be fair. Now, if planning board says no, then it doesn't happen. But I wanted to be clear of why I wanted this approved pending planning board's decision. Yes. Pending planning board's approval. Absolutely.
 Second by Councilmember Fierlato. Resolutions. Item 51, wave building fees for zoo roof. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp's. Second.
 Item 52, rescinding unissued bond authorizations by repealing various bond resolutions. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 53, ordinance amendment chapter 96-19, living wage ordinance. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Forensic. Item 54, permission to hang pride flags on portions of Elmwood Avenue and Allen Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 55, Buffalo News article, students sues Buffalo School. Motion to send to education.
 second by president proto item 56 budget and personnel amendment plan and design of buildings motion to approve items 56 through 58. second by council member what 59 to ensure deep public duties motion to adopt items 59 and 60.
 By Councilmember White, announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 6th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 6th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 6th, 2 p.m. Special Committee. Committee on Education, Thursday, June 8th, 530 p.m. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts? Yes.
 Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to announce that today is coming June 10th at Rotary Field, our third annual University United Festival. We're getting very, very excited. We have a lot of vendors. We have a parade beginning at 10 right on Bailey. So we just want to let the community know that this is their event in their district. We want them to come out and support. It's not too late for vendors.
 so if they want to give our office a call they can call our office 851-5165-851-5165 thank you thank you sir it's going to be a big deal majority leader mr president today marks the beginning of five week we raise the flag today at noon and it culminates on sunday june 4th thank you all right anybody else all right you have motion motion to adjourn second by councilman white 2 32.