Thank you. Our presentations will probably be longer than our meeting, which is sometime how it is. We held off on so many to give respect to the events that were occurring around us. And so we're playing a little catch up, but everyone is important. We begin with the South District Council member. We then will go to the University and Lovejoy Council members.
 After the University and Lovejoy Council members, we will go to the Fillmore Council member. After that, we will go to the Ellicott Council member. And then there is from the full council in remembrance. Council member of the South District, Christopher Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. As we end May, the month of May, I think it's important to recognize the fact that it's Mental Health Awareness Month.
 And considering all we've been through in the past couple of weeks as a community and as a nation, I think it's very important that we discuss this and kind of bring awareness to it here in council chambers. Because despite the fact that as a society, we have overcome a number of hurdles when it comes to the stigma surrounding mental health or the treatment of mental health, we still have an incredibly long way to go.
 Um, with us today we have Kaylee Daniel. Um, Kaylee was actually one of the people who's going to be with us two weeks ago, but obviously with the horrific events of May 14th, we had to postpone. So I'm thrilled to have you here with us today. Um, like I'm sure all of you, my life has been touched by mental health issues in a
 I think in order for us to ever to be able to overcome all those stigmas that I mentioned or provide the adequate treatment or allocate the proper funding needed to create the bandwidth to address this issue as a whole, we need to have some, some honest some, some difficult and some frank conversations at times.
 So that's why I'm thrilled to have Kaylee with us here today. She's going to share her story with us and discuss the tremendous lengths she's going to, to address mental health awareness, create awareness for mental health issues, and to honestly, to let people know that as bleak as some things might seem at times, there can be a light at the end of the tunnel with the proper treatment. So Kaylee, it's all yours. Thank you. Gosh, I move this. Can you guys hear me? I'm short. All right.
 Thank you all for having me today. So yes, I'm Kaylee Danu. I earned my bachelor's degree in psychology and my master's in clinical psychology from Penn State University. But the reason that I'm so passionate about speaking about mental health awareness and suicide prevention is because I know these struggles intimately. And
 I started getting really vocal about it on a broader scale after working for several years on the individual basis because, quite frankly, I'm sick of what I'm seeing. Our community is in crisis, and it's not just in the South District, unfortunately. It is nationally, I'm sure nationally.
 If not all of you, most of you in this room know a life that's been touched by suicide. And if not suicide, severe mental illness, PTSD, depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety, etc. I know these struggles well. For the entirety of my adolescence, I struggled significantly with major depression and chronic suicidality. My high school career was
 marked by a series of revolving door hospitalizations, medication trial and errors, and suicide attempts. And when I was 18 years old, I went into my closet after taking a handful of Klonopin and I strung myself up with my favorite belt.
 And my heart stopped beating and I stopped breathing. And I was clinically dead for about 10 minutes. And it is really only by the grace of God and modern medicine that I'm here, not only walking and talking, but cognitively functioning, able to speak in a room full of people. Every 31 seconds in the United States, somebody attempts to end their life.
 So that means by the time I'm done with my little song and dance here, 20 people will have attempted to end their life because they feel so hopeless. They feel so isolated that they see no other option, which is really quite remarkable when we think about what suicide is, right? Our brainstem at its core exists to keep us alive, to perpetuate life, to keep our hearts beating, our stomachs digesting, to keep us breathing without having to think about it.
 So I know personally, and after working with years of very sick patients, how bad it has to be to get there. So what can we do? I mean, we've done remarkable work in the last 10, 20 years to de-stigmatize conversations such as this. But quite frankly, it's not enough. Because what we've done is say...
 Well, go get help. And that's great to normalize these conversations and encourage our loved ones and particularly men in our community to get help. But the fact of the matter is right now help's not available. We are taking beds away from psychiatric inpatient facilities. We are paying our social workers and our mental health counselors peanuts for the work that they do. We are...
 not staffing suicide hotlines. So if you call a suicide hotline today, you very well could be waiting in line. And what message does that say to you? It's not worth it. So yes, while funding and destigmatizing these programs is amazing, I dream of a world in which we don't have to be so reactionary because our preventative measures are strong enough where people never get to these spots. And how does that happen?
 That happens through community-based action. To serve both these ends, really, the healing but also the prevention of severe chronic mental illness is community-based action. So that's why I'm here. Because what does community-based action mean? Well, if you think about evolutionarily how rough our ancestors had it, right? They lived gritty, difficult lives. And they've never seen the numbers of suicide, opioid, or any overdoses.
 mental illness that we see now. Why? Because they were deeply connected to each other. They might not have had the emotional intelligence that I also dream of our community having or our nation having one day, but they lived closely together and they regulated by being in community. Right now, it's so easy to feel isolated. And that was my experience. I, Mitch can attest to this, I was popular. I played varsity field hockey and lacrosse.
 I had tons of friends and I socialized on the weekend and I felt so cripplingly alone. And so through community-based actions, through programming in schools, in our communities for adults, as well as parents, as well as children to teach emotional regulation, to teach distress tolerance, to normalize the fact that life doesn't always feel good and
 A common rhetoric in our society today is good vibes only and, quite frankly, I think that's that's a home and it's gonna be hard for me not to swear it's. it's in the it's an irresponsible rhetoric because life hurts nobody in this room is immune to suffering death happens heartbreak happens illness happens financial strap tragedy happens.
 And when we are accustomed to, when we think we're broken because we feel lousy, we're doing everybody a disservice because one, we don't reach out, but then two, we don't know how to help our friends who are struggling. So by teaching in our communities and our schools and our youth programs and our churches, emotional regulation, distress tolerance and communication skills, we can begin to build a world and a community in which we don't get there.
 We don't get to that rock bottom. And it's also true that this works on the other end, that through community, through solid relationships, healing happens. When we hurt as a community, we have to heal as a community. So I am here to ask you today that you begin pivoting your understanding as mental illness as an individual issue, because while it manifests on an individual basis, it's not
 It's seeds for healing and causation are at the community level. So I thank you for your time and your attention, and I hope you have something to chew on. Thanks a lot.
 Kaley, I just want to thank you for coming in today and sharing your story and educating us all on some of the challenges ahead. I have a proclamation for you here from all nine council members. I won't get into the whole thing, just want to read the one there for. Therefore, we are the members of the city of Buffalo Common Council recognize the mental health epidemic in our country and pause to acknowledge Kaley Danu for sharing her inspirational journey.
 and for continuous efforts in not only raising suicide awareness, but educating people about how to better understand the brain and confidently confirm that with proper treatment, people can prevail over this disease and reclaim full and productive lives. So again, I want to thank you on behalf of the entire Common Council for coming in today. Thank you. University and Lovejoy Council.
 Thank you, Council President, and thank everyone for being here. We understand that this is Mental Health Awareness Month, and through our budget process this year, we were able to have allocate some funds for mental health in the police department, which is a huge, huge win, and we think is very, very important. So I think my colleague, Council Member Bowman, and us both joining in on this resolution, and I'll turn it over to him.
 Thank you, Council Member Wyatt. I'll ask that we have with us today Captain Beyer and a couple of representatives from the behavioral health team. I'll ask that they may join us on the floor. And really with that, I'll just say that, you know, as we close out Mental Health Awareness Month,
 I think it's really important the work that Captain Byer and this team has been doing in our community. They are making a difference and it really stuck out to me. Captain Byer and I spoke about, you know, the follow up work that they do when they're out and they come in, you know, encounter a resident. The work that they do following up after that and making sure the situation is under control. So I'll turn it over to Captain Byer here and she could say a few words for us. Thank you.
 Thank you, Kempman. Thank you for acknowledging Mental Health Awareness Month. As our previous speakers say, we still have a lot of work to do. It's a problem, and it's a problem even in law enforcement.
 I appreciate the work that these clinicians are doing every day with Endeavor Health Services and joining the police department on this new program with partnering up with people outside of the police agency and really trying to address the needs of the community in an empathetic way and getting people help that they need. They go out there every day dealing with people in crisis. That takes a lot out of somebody.
 you know, and they're going out there and they're doing that job. And with this past crisis that just happened a couple of weeks ago to our team was out there. And I think that tragedy continues, you know, this is going to impact our community for a long time beyond just last week and this week. So we're out there prepared to do the job that we need to do and just appreciate you acknowledging us and thank you.
 And then I'll just read the last whereas on our proclamation, but we are looking at ways to continue the behavioral health team and, you know, invest in this because it's important for our community. And now therefore.
 The City of Buffalo Common Council would like to recognize the achievements of the Buffalo Police Behavioral Health Team and thank them for the vast impact they have here in the City of Buffalo by consistently displaying professionalism, compassion, and concern for the safety of all involved. Thank you very much. They want to get a photo with you. They have, I agree with you guys, done a wonderful job. We had a lot of cities.
 that were calling and still calling for the same thing. Buffalo got it done, expanded it. And I have said this a million times, I'll keep saying it because when we complain about something, we say it a million times. So I'd like to compliment people. I've seen you in action on my street several times
 And in the past, some individuals who may have ended up in jail stayed home. And I've watched how many hours you stayed out and just really talking to people and really walking them back or walking them forward, whichever way they needed to be. So thank you for both of those presentations on mental health. Just so important. Yeah, very important. Council Member of the Fillmore District, Mitch Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Some of us were at a flag raising for Pride Week earlier today, and I'd like to bring down the Executive Director of the Pride Center, Kelly Craig, Ari Moore, who I think is the queen mother of us all on this stage, and Alex Virgo from Black and Latino Pride. Better politician than all of us. Ari.
 So as many of you know that June is historically Pride Month for historical reasons of the Stonewall uprising. And it's really important for me to highlight people in the community that oftentimes get overlooked and to make sure that all voices are brought up. And that's especially our black and Latino brothers and sisters. And so when they do come in and express themselves, it's not during times of crisis, but times of times where they can express their music, their culture, dancing.
 I tried, I failed, but I will be at the events cheering everyone on. But Pride Week really is a time where folks take a moment to see how far we've come in the community of LGBTQ equality. And its name really is out of, like many of us on this stage had to grow up, not being proudful, being told,
 that you aren't equal enough, that you aren't able to get married. You know, sitting at a kitchen table growing up and having your civil rights being argued before you. I mean, it's a pretty tough place to not feel pride in yourself when your existence is often debated
 And now is the time to collectively remember where we all came from and those that came before us, especially folks like Ari who stuck around here in Buffalo and paved the way for all of us to be able to achieve our dreams. So we stand on shoulders like that. But for the first speaker I'd like to bring is Kelly Craig, who is the Executive Director of the Pride Center of Western New York. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me. Um, as much said, my name is Kelly Craig and I am the Executive Director of the Pride Center of Western New York.
 It is a pleasure to be here before you today to represent the Pride Center, not only as a director, but as a woman of faith, a woman of color, and a woman of trans experience as we start Buffalo Pride Week and Pride Month, both which start today. Each year, we find strength through love, inclusivity, and unity, three things that have affected us, especially during the pandemic. At the Pride Center, we celebrate pride all year long.
 We work to ensure Western New York is a safe place for people with as LGBT people, people who can live, work and raise their families in a peaceful way. Together with our allies, service providers and external partners, we offer knowledge, experience and resources to address LGBTQ plus issues.
 issues, including HIV, sexual health, discrimination, social isolation, and most of all acceptance. Many of our services include but not limited to HIV testing, linkage and navigation, peer and group interventions, mental health support and groups, PrEP and PEP support, legal name changes, and gender marker changes.
 along with cultural competency. And with some sponsorship, we have now implemented our trans youth program that sets the foundation for trans youth and their families in all Western New York counties. Also, we are now embarking on addressing housing disparities for young men who have sex with men.
 I would personally like to invite each and every one of you to our open house at 278 Delaware on Thursday, June 16th. I hope to see you all there. I'll be sending you all personal invitations. And the Pride Parade and Festival, both of which will be held in person this Sunday after a two-year hiatus. We invite you to visit buffaloprideweek.com for all of Buffalo Pride Week and month details. Thank you. God bless you.
 And the next up is, who always is teaching me about history, but making sure that when we do tell history, we don't whitewash history. And we make sure that we accurately tell stories of those that came before us. She is a mass and district resident on Hutchinson Avenue. And as on more boards than I can name, Ari Moore. Thank you, council member. Now that you've blown my cover.
 Before I start, I have to give a shout out to my fellow associate officers doing that work that for years had been needed here in the city of Buffalo. I am Ari Moore. You're a West New York transgender griot, a griot is someone that holds the history, the oral history of a community. I've been around before some of you were born.
 Notation before I go into my school, my own thing. We walk among you. We've always been here in one way or another in respect to the pride. Before there was a parade, there was a protest at the Stonewall Inn in New York City to resist the oppression and the tyranny of those who would stand and
 another human's freedom. Those lessons were learned through others, such as the Civil Rights Movement. A constant movement, though it may be slow, toward freedom, toward equity, toward justice, and to struggle against tyranny and terrorism. Many in our community, I happen to be a person of color,
 So I stand in two different communities, the Black as well as the LGBT community. Seeing that and the injustices and the oppression that has gone on over decades. I'm very encouraged after some 20 years of going to Albany and advocating and lobbying to see a young man like Council Member Nowakowski, here among us doing the good,
 the necessary moral job of supporting just not our community, but our communities. As it was said, it takes a village to build this city up, and we've seen that over the past weeks. I can be quite litigious and long-winded many times, but I'll end with, that's what happens when you get older.
 Retribution for, let me start it again. It's like telling a bad joke. Without repentance for recolation is just manipulation. Without accountability, without forgiveness is just marketing. Without justice and unity is just crowd control. So I leave those words with you.
 that Buffalo is proven yet again, that is a city of good neighbors. Thank you. Thank you, Warren. And our last speaker for the Pride segment is Alex Burgos from Black and Latino Pride, who's constantly trying to bring people together through music and culture and food demonstration and making sure that his culture is also represented in Pride Week, but also every month throughout the year.
 Thank you so much, Council Member Nowakowski, for the invitation. I am so grateful to be in the presence of our city leadership today. My name is Alexandre Burgos. I am a proud Puerto Rican gay man born and raised in the city of Buffalo with a family that came here from Puerto Rico with the dream of giving me a better life.
 In addition to giving me a better life, my father, Efrain Burgos, and my mother, Elizabeth Gonzalez, instilled that while it's important to work on myself and work hard, but that I must also work hard for my community. I must remain humble, and I must come humbly as a human being wherever I go. And the spirit of the lessons I've learned from my family are something that serve as a guiding force behind everything that I do.
 I could not come here today without reflecting on the tragedy that happened in our community on the tops on Jefferson Avenue.
 It's not only an act of domestic terrorism and racism, but in fact, an act against the will of God and our creator. Every human that roams this earth belongs in the arms of the sacred. Every person deserves to feel encompassed by the omnipresent and divine love of our God.
 With that being said, that love that I believe everyone is deserving of, I try to give to our community. Upstate New York Black and Latino Pride seeks to bring intersectionality and visibility through to the forefront through programming, outreach and events. We were founded as a result of the inequity that people of color have felt not only as society at large, but particularly in the LGBT community.
 We know that this work is not easy. We know that this work is a lifelong commitment, but this work is not just something we do. It's who we are. Thank you so much for inviting me and happy Friday. Thank you. One last one.
 The Fillmore District is quite a fun district and many of you guys over the past year have been able to enjoy the carousel at the canal side and know what it encompasses to bring your children for a fun-filled day for it only costs a dollar. I'd like to bring down Karima Elbahari down to give us a few words on the Buffalo Heritage Council.
 Thank you. Thank you for having me here today. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you, Councilman Nowakowski. Your support and those of the Common Council here has been critical with the Buffalo Heritage Carousel. I am pleased to announce we will see our 100th rider this week. We opened one year ago last Friday, and we are the bridge between our manufacturing past and our renewable energies.
 We see everybody at the carousel regardless of age. We consider them all our children. So we have seen everyone there and we have seen our neighbors from every corner of Buffalo, Western New York, and in essence the world as far away as Tokyo, as far south as Argentina, and we welcome them and we show them that we are the city of good neighbors. Thank you.
 Thank you, Councilmember. We have on the line, Nick, who is the program's director, I believe, for National Park Trust for Kids. Nick, are you with us? Yes, hello. Hello.
 Thanks for having me. Thank you. We have a proclamation signed by all of the members of the council. Whereas May 21 2022 marks the 12th annual kids to parks day empowering kids and encouraging families all over the country to get outdoors and enjoy local parks, public land and water. Whereas kids day parks,
 They inspires kids to lead a more active lifestyle, helping to combat issues of childhood obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and hypocalesterolemia.
 You'll correct me and say it right. All while broadening their appreciation for nature and outdoors. Now, therefore, we, the members of the City of Buffalo Common Council, recognize the vital role that the National Park Trust plays in fostering healthy habits in our youth by encouraging the benefits of enjoying the outdoors and hereby proclaim May 21st, 2022 as kids,
 Parks Day in the city of Buffalo signed by all nine members of the Buffalo Common Council. Nick, you have the floor.
 Thank you so much. We really appreciate Buffalo stepping up and helping out our youth combating childhood obesity. We'd like to report that Kids to Park Stay in Buffalo 2022 was a success. Thousands of kids and families got outside in your parks and rec departments through events that were hosted both by the National Park Trust and the Buffalo Parks and Rec Department. We had over 600,000 people nationwide engaging in outdoor events and activities.
 uh kids to park state was a success and we owe a lot of that success to the city of buffalo so thank you so much thank you and we will forward this to you today
 Finally, we've already mentioned the names of all of those who were lost. We also remember we are praying for Zaire Goodman, who was treated and released from the hospital. Jennifer Warrington of Tonawanda was treated and released from the hospital, and Christopher Braden, who had non-life-threatening injuries physically, and also we recognize Jerome Bridges,
 one of the many heroes, and he is one who helped to get people into the cooler during the shooting, and he has already been mailed a certificate of recognition from the entire Common Council. And I think that ends our presentation, so I know our guests would just love to stay, but we will understand if you have to get back to work. Thank you. We'll give them a few seconds.
 A motion by Councilmember Veer, second by Councilmember Scanlon. The minutes of stated meeting held on May 17th, 2022 are approved. Councilmembers, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as before. It's not taken away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review something that you haven't had a chance to review. Council Majority Leader. Council President, motion to take item number 10 from CD out of order. Second by Council Member Fairlough.
 Item number 10, renaming Oak Grove and Blaine Triangle to Eaton Hill Park. Motion to open a public hearing. Motion to open a public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Public hearing is now before us. Are there any comments on that? Can we potentially hold this item in advance? We do have a speaker that is on the way. They had car trouble. Okay. Okay.
 Motion to hold. Actually, she just walked in. She just walked in. All right. You can get to a mic and we will hear your statement. We know it's fine. This is right on time, Council Member. Thank you. Ten members of the council, thank you for considering our item. You just state your name for the record. My name is Stephanie Barbagida.
 representing the Hamlet Park taxpayers. Thank you for looking at our item and considering it. It is about two awesome men who have now passed on, but want to name a little park that they always worked on. After them last summer, we had a group of people from the neighborhood, about 50 people worked to get it all jazzed up. These men were authentic community leaders. And so we thank you for your recognition of them.
 Thank you very much. But could I just say one other thing, Mr. Council President, about what's going on on Jefferson? Thank all of you who've come to help us. We appreciate that. We felt the love for real. We're going to make some adjustments and we're going to need your help on some things. But thank you. Thank you. Really appreciate it. Any other speakers for this public hearing? Council Member Wengel, did you have anything you wanted to add? Yes.
 The Hamlin Community Taxpayer Association is one of our strongest associations in the Madison District, if not the strongest. We model a lot of our associations after Hamlin Park's model because they have been so closely tightly knit together community over these last seven years. I've been here on the council almost seven years.
 that I've been on the council. And I appreciate the work that they have done, especially in the person of Stephanie Barbara Jeter,
 One of these days, my prayer is that there's something to name after her while she's still living. I know how she is. I know how she is. I know. I know. But we need to make sure that we recognize you while you are here because we appreciate all that you do for the community as well. Thank you, Stephanie. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Motion to close second by council member Wingo. Motion to receive the file. The moving item is in resolution. Second by council member Wingo. Thank you. All right. Are we going from the top?
 Item number 1, 311 monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 2, amend the lease agreement between the City of Buffalo and Westside Community Services. Motion to approve items 2 through 8 through 9. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 10, African American Veterans Memorial. Motion to send finance items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member White.
 Item number 12, change order ballpark electrical upgrades. Motion to approve items 12 through 16. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 17, appoint truck driver permanent. Motion to send civil service. Second by Councilmember Fairlotto. Item number 18, purchase auction and scrap of vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp Scandal. Item number 19, third quarter gap. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fairlotto. Item number 20. Motion. Second.
 Citation. Citation, management system, and handhold ticket writer contractor. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah. Item number 21, BSA budget 2022-2023. Motion to receive and file items 21 and 22. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 23, appoint account clerk typist permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golomba. Miscellaneous. Item number 24, citizens commission on reapportionment.
 Motion to receive and file items 24 and 25. Second by Council Member White. Item number 26, Citizens Commission on Reapportionment. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 27, Commission on Reapportionment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 28, Interest in Acquiring J.H. Williamsville. Motion to send the CD and DPW. Second by Council Member Lombeck, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I don't want anyone to freak out in the district or in the neighborhood when they see the title interested in acquiring J.H. Williams Field. This is a park in my neighborhood. It's a bigger park. It's a smaller section, but a bigger park that has...
 soccer fields, a little house there, playground, basketball courts, etc. It's across the street from the Charter School for Applied Technology. The Charter School for Applied Technology is looking to do a cooperative venture with the City of Buffalo to
 and work so that they would be able to have sort of that J.H. Williams field as their home field. As you and I have talked before, the devil's in the details, of course, and those all need to be ironed out. This letter is just simply a beginning to have those discussions. Many, many years ago, this was brought up and it didn't work out, I think, back around 2005, 2006,
 But I think it was done a little bit backwards at that point. I think this way we want to bring in the community and have some discussions and see what the voice of the community is and then move forward or not from that point. So just once again, this is not, this is only to start a discussion. I don't want people in the neighborhood to get upset that they're going to be losing their public park because they're not going to be no matter what happens. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the clarification.
 Item number 29, negative declaration 131, Herndon. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Petitions, item number 30, special use 135, Prospect. Motion to send to legislation city planning board items 30-36. Second by Council Member Furlough. Submission list, civil service, item number 1, appoint chief diversity officer. Motion to approve item number 1. Second by the majority leader, Revere. Item number 2, appoint hub program manager. Motion to approve items 2 and 3.
 or receiving final second by majority leader of revere item number four appoint coordinator of office automatic motion to approve items four and five second by councilman bowman item number six appoint c and data processing up equipment operator motion to receive and file item six and seven second by council member fear letter
 Community Development, item number 8, reported cell 33 molar. This item is to be recommitted at the request of the District Councilmember. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number nine, report a cell 31 trope. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number, legislation. Item number 11, booster license, 91 Grant Street. Motion to approve item 11, approve with conditions 12 and approve 13. Second by the majority leader of the group. Item number 14, special use 81 Abbott.
 Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 15, special use 795 Columbus Parkway. Motion to approve 15, approve with condition 16, and approve 17 and 18. Second by our majority leader. Resolutions, item number 37, Subaru Chase Trailblazing Sign. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fierlito. Item number 38, Commissioner Vietz. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 39, school 31, field day fee waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, trailblazing sign to honor the Juneteenth parade. Motion to adopt items 40 and 41. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. 41, if I could speak just for a moment, is really sending to our delegation in
 Washington, a urging to really start to move this conversation about sensible gun legislation. It was my honor to meet the president, and we had that discussion briefly, and then the vice president, and we had that discussion. And it was really the encouragement of
 of our vice president and our president, that there be a statement from the local bodies all over the states. And as much attention as we can get to this, I think one of the things especially we saw with the children, which was heartbreaking in Texas, and for us, it was just as heartbreaking in Buffalo.
 And so, you know, our hearts go out to them and we hope that we don't have to lose more lives before the folks in Washington start to talk about not just talk about it, but move this legislation. So I didn't hear any objections. So it looks like that will be a unanimous vote. Council Member White and Council Member Sam. Thank you, Mr. President, for doing that on behalf of the council. I think it's very important.
 that we rally every citizen that we can to stand up again. We can't continue to go on like this. We keep saying enough is enough. We keep talking about thoughts and prayers. Thoughts and prayers aren't enough anymore.
 when we have sensible legislation that we can put forth that seems the Congress is holding up Democrats and Republicans. But what about the people? What about ordinary people? What about the 10 victims in Buffalo? What about the 19, the 21 in Texas? We can't keep going this way. I think the legislation that the federal government, that some of the Congress has put forth regarding background checks makes sense.
 regarding raising the age makes perfect sense. Those are things that are very sensible. I don't think anyone wants to tread on anyone's second amendment rights. But when we talk about an AR-15 that someone can get,
 and kill people at a high rate. This is not war, but it seems to be a war because we continue to take on this and have these prayer vigils and things for people that they shouldn't have to go through. My heart breaks for the families in Texas and those babies who were killed. You know, people are now trying to talk about the response. Okay.
 what about the death what about the gun that this individual has so thank you for doing this and i support it wholeheartedly and i pray i really pray that we do something that makes sense so we don't have to keep saying our prayers are with these families we just can't continue to go on this way thank you thank you president
 Thank you, Council President. I don't really have much to add. I think you and Council Member Wyatt said it all. I just, with your permission, I'd like to be added to the resolution. Absolutely. Absolutely. Councilmember Revere to be added. Councilmember Noah Kostka to be added. Councilmember Wyatt to be added. Councilmember Fairletter. Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember Wingo, who has the floor.
 I only went to the floor to ask if I got it for the resolution. All right. So all of the council members have stood united to say we are asking our representatives in D.C. to do that and possibly our representatives even in the state of New York. But this one goes right to them.
 I'll take that. Although we're not supposed to, I'm going to let that happen today. We are going to let that happen. Thank you for the support. Did we stop at, next one's 42? Yes. Item number 42, establishing legislation for public works contractor bonds. Motion to adopt.
 and remainder to legislation, both items 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Whyte. On this very briefly, this is the item that Public Works talked about about the potholes. We talked about how these contractors dig into our streets,
 put concrete and don't come back where they're supposed to come back, starts the potholes and they're off to the next job. This begins the process to ask Corporation Council to work with Public Works. It talks about them being bonded where we could get our money back out of them. But also what is going to be worked on in this is a separate license.
 for anybody who digs in our streets. So if you want, if you got to do plumbing, you got to have a special license. That way, if you leave four streets messed up or however many after we work it out, and I'm sure Hamlin Park will be happy to hear this as everybody's neighborhood will, they would then...
 It would stay would not be able to dig in the street and and part of this was us a big part of this was the Commissioner who mentioned it, and I just didn't want to let it let it linger, and then it not happen because a lot of our potholes are not because of the freeze and thought solely, it is because the cracks start on purpose with the cutting, and it's not just contractors, it's the utilities to.
 because I've seen gas company, electric company come out, more the gas company, but sometimes the electric company come out, tear up the street, tear up, and then nobody comes back and we got a pothole. And then people say, well, the mayor didn't get the potholes or the council member didn't respond. We wanna stop it.
 early. And I think if we have more of this where there are separate license, they're gonna think about it or else they could lose their privilege
 to work in the right of way in the city of Buffalo. Councilman Bowman. Thank you, council president. You hit it right on the head. I just wanted to make sure that we ask corporation council to look at the utility companies because they're our biggest culprit at most times, but thank you very much for your leadership. This is a pet peeve of mine throughout the entire district we see it. So I appreciate it. Thank you. Well, I'm glad it's warm up because they probably gonna cut off your gas.
 I just want to be added. Please add Councilmember Wyatt. Was somebody else wanted to speak on this?
 Council member Nowakowski. Yes, I just wanted to also follow up on what council member Bowman said was, there's many times in my district where utility companies will rip up sidewalks and throw down asphalt. They pretty sure they wouldn't do that in Lancaster and they won't be doing that here in the Fillmore district or the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I don't know, and when they work on this, how, cause some of these folks are, they get special privileges,
 But I think that the more residents know, sometimes you just got to embarrass the companies. If they're not going to come out, if we can't legally make the companies do it, we need to make sure that our citizens are equipped with a way to complain to those companies. All right. Councilman Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Are you going to speak on item 43 or 43?
 The reselling, oh, well, I know you have an item, and I'll just say this, that what 43 asked is, so I think many of us have been called about the stores, and I know you're gonna discuss it, stores, allegedly selling items that were given
 to them to help people after this massacre. And what item 43 is asking is for Corporation Council to opine to this council on whether it is illegal to do it. It is definitely immoral. It is definitely reprehensible. But I think we got to get a, we need a read on whether, and I don't know if you're not prepared to answer that today, our incorporation council.
 So I won't put it on the spot because this asks for a written paper so that we can respond to our constituents. And it also asks, if it's not illegal, can a law be written and how would that law look? Because I think the jury is out on...
 Bad wording, but the jury is out sometime on whether you can, whether you can't. And I want to know so that we all know and we're well equipped. Councilman Ringo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And if with your permission, I would like to be added to the solution as well, just to show my full support.
 because this resolution, unlike the resolution that's coming up behind it, this is asking for a change and amendment to the city ordinance to ensure that if it is not illegal already, that we can make it illegal. So thank you, and with your permission, I would like to be added. Absolutely. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair, Mr. President. And I know this is not related specifically, but there was an issue that I dealt with in my district regarding to someone saying that there was an individual doing price gouging.
 And it wasn't factual. And so we have to be careful in giving people information because some people just run with it and say, hey, this is happening. But I do know that there was someone that lives in my district that saw a particular store doing the selling. So, you know, when you have the eyewitness, that's one thing. But then there are people saying other things. So it's something that we have to be careful. But I'm glad to see that we're getting the information, the right facts.
 so people understand the facts. If it's something that's illegal, then we have to make sure that people are aware of it. But I appreciate being added to this resolution as well. Thank you. Absolutely, and I agree with you. I think that, but what I'm excited about is people getting involved and reaching out and saying something is wrong, even if it's not true, because I went to a store too to look, but there was a time when they wouldn't have.
 And then stores would just do whatever in our communities and nobody would call. And now, so some information is going to be right. Some information is going to be wrong. But at least we're starting, like people are going, they're taking ownership of their communities. And they're angry when they see or even think that.
 that somebody is taking advantage of situations that should benefit people who are struggling and in and in trauma so i agree so good good deal anybody else all right
 Item number 44, extended counseling services through the summer for Jefferson community. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt, seconded by Council Member Bowman. This, again, very briefly. In a few days, the counseling, and I want to really thank the county and all of the
 mental health agencies that have been on Jefferson. It has been like phenomenal. And on the day of the shooting, I was standing with the county executive while he was on his phone calling and saying, bring everybody you can. And I think that Councilmember Wingo was there as Pastor Wingo and others were right there with the families.
 So that service is supposed to end soon, like in days. And I've had this discussion with Chairwoman Baskin and with Legislator Johnson of extending it through the summer. And then today I saw where Chairwoman Baskin is even talking about, I fully support this, a trauma center.
 where you're able, anybody in the city, if something happens, a tragedy, that they would be able, they would know where that center is. They can call, they can take their children. And so when people talk about next steps, I 100% support that personally, but this asks if they would keep those services in our community through the summer, because the trauma is going to last beyond the next week.
 and it's going to start coming out according to mental health professionals in different ways. And if we don't have a place where we're able to take them and for them to get the mental help or the spiritual help, whatever it is that they need, it may be a long, hot summer for people to really deal with.
 I congratulate her. We did discuss this. Yeah, we may have to figure out how to do that financially together a little bit, but I think it is something that needs to stay. I'll say this finally on this that
 I talked to one of the workers there, and she talked about how many people came who have never sought help mentally for their mental health. Never talked to a counselor, have never had therapy, never went for spiritual counseling, and how the high percentage of people who that stigma that we have lived with, especially in black and brown communities,
 And how now people are telling their neighbors, like, I just went to Johnny B. Watt. Like, who? I never thought that would happen. And so if one little piece of good, and I think there's going to be a lot of pieces of good that come from the laying down of these lives, that is one of the starts to keep our mental health. Council Member Wingo, you have the floor.
 Mr. Chair, I know that you drafted several resolutions today. I agree with all of them. And this is one that with again your permission, I'd like to be added to it because the bottom line is like you've already stated, the trauma will go further than the services that are being offered now will last. And we need to have something and I've been outspoken with Chairwoman Baskin as well,
 as well as our county executive regarding behavioral health and the stigma, like you said, it's taboo in our community that we extend these services and ensure that they are available, not just now. Because we've been saying this and it has happened that when the cameras are gone, we'll still be here.
 And then there were also the folks in the store who have not been behind a camera, but were on the other side of a barrel of an AR-15. And we need to make sure that those folks have been traumatized because of that experience also receive the necessary counseling that they need. Just today at my children's school, this may be news to some, but it's already broke.
 Today at my children's school, a child brought a gun to school, a BB gun. And that experience traumatized the students.
 Needless to say, of course, the school responded with their protocols. The parents were notified. A lot of parents went there to pick up their children. My daughters are upstairs now because at that point the school then became a trigger. So do the question for me now is, do my children go to school tomorrow, be reintroduced to the same setting that has them feeling unsafe in a way?
 But I was assured by the administration at the school, as well as the head of security for the school district, that everything went according to their protocol. The children were safe. They did apprehend the students who did bring that weapon into the school. But this is a reality that we here in the city of Buffalo have to live in now. Not only do we have the realities of racism.
 that we've lived with our entire brown skin lives. Now we have the reality of a massacre that we have to contend with in the future that has affected not just the black community, but it has also, I've gotten just like you have Mr. Chair, so many calls regarding the trauma and I've gotten so many businesses and organizations who have also reached out regarding what they can do to help
 If I could suggest, and this is what I've told them, I don't know if it's right or indifferent, but this is what I've said to them. I said, not to discourage those folks who are giving food away, continue to do that if that's your ministry. But what we need now is sustainable mental health counseling. If you want to contribute to something,
 start there. Start with anti-racist training. Start with diversity, equity, and inclusionary trainings at your job. Start there. Make sure that everyone in every community knows that we are all from the same blood. And with that, Mr. Chair, again, with your permission, I'd like to be out of your resolution. Thank you. Absolutely. At Mr. Wingo, at Mr. Wyatt. All right. We are...
 doing more than talk and actually trying to do some things to move forward and working with our partners in government thank you next time item number 45 equal veterans 5k fee waiver motion to approve items 45 through 47. saying my present pro temp scanlon item number 48 ensuring that food donations attended to be free service those in need motion to adopt second by council member wingo who has the floor thank you mr chair this this this was written
 in direct response to the myriad phone calls we received in the Mastin District Office. I believe that because Thompson named me in their initial press release and because of the relationship that we've established over the years, they reached out and they called me and we partnered to ensure that we did have a food distribution place in Mastin. However,
 Again, you spoke earlier of the residents and the constituents in our communities taking ownership of their community. Yes, they've taken ownership. And what we have come to realize and what folks have said that they've eyewitnessed,
 is that folks are going and taking advantage of the free food that's being given away. The free food that has been given and intended to be consumed for free. The free food that was intended to try and make a broken community whole again by showing up where there was a gap or a need, which was food. And there are folks
 who are exploiting the pain of our community. There are folks who are exploiting the massacre that occurred on the 14th. And because of this, it has caused an outcry in our community from eyewitnesses who have seen folks on their accounts who have allegedly taken the food from the distribution site
 and taken it to their food store and shelved and stocked their stores with these items. It wasn't the first call that I responded. It was not the second or fifth call. It was probably after the 20th call, and those calls came all within a couple of days.
 And after that, something had to be done. So the first thing I did was issue a warning. I Facebook just issued a verbal warning and said, listen, this is unethical. This is, like you said, reprehensible. This is egregious. This is disgusting and it needs to stop. And because I continue to get phone calls and messages and text messages.
 Then we drafted the resolution to ensure that there was some action behind making sure that we put a punitive measure in place for anyone who is found to have taken the items from these distribution places and placed them on their shelves to make a profit off of our pain.
 That's why this resolution was written. And again, I hope and pray that this resolution augments your resolution and your resolution again augments this resolution. And at the end of the day, we come out with something that is written up in law that's codified so that we have punitive measures in place to ensure that no one is taking advantage of the generosity, the philanthropic nature of folks in this city that is all prescribed as being the city of good neighbors, that no one is taking advantage of that. Okay.
 And I think that the fact that people have been calling nonstop, Mr. President, is testament to the fact that we've said it a lot, but enough is enough. And I believe the community feels that enough is enough. So this resolution calls for action.
 the Department of Permits and Inspections to effectively go out and ensure that some of the items that are being given out in these distribution places are not items on the shelves. And one of the things that we did to try to help curtail this and give a disincentive for folks who may have been accused of doing this, was we began marking all of the items that were put in these bags.
 And if any of those items with those little special markings were found in the stores on the shelves, then we would know that's proof or evidence. They don't know one, but the distribution centers know what those marks are. That way, no one can go in and say, I found this in the store and accuse someone of selling something that they've had there the whole time. But to discourage food store owners, operators from conducting and engaging in that type of behavior.
 So again, I'm praying that this resolution augments yours and your resolution augments this one. And we finally get to a place where we're all taking care of our community and taking ownership. And the truth of the matter is, I've been at the distribution centers. I've been there and I've never some I can't say that. But the community has said this, Mr. Chair, some people are going driving in the community.
 and this is all alleged and again let me let me back up out of respect for what one of our colleagues said earlier i'll stop there because what i don't want to do is spread hearsay so i really appreciate the fact that our resolutions are going to uh give the community what they've asked us for thank you mr chair absolutely you want to tell us what the markings are no sir but i think that's a good a good move
 is to mark them in some type of way. And even if it, and that's why I asked for an opinion, even if it's not illegal,
 It's just not right. And anybody who thinks it's right, I'm sorry. You just can't find any right in that. You know what, Mr. Chair, if I could? Yes. You know, I was thinking that if I were to tell you what the markings were, some folks might actually mark them and try to get folks in trouble. But the truth of the matter is we put hearts and smiley faces on the items where we put them on there.
 I think that's that's key to the distribution centers. So we did mark them with smiley faces, little dot dot smiley face, and little hearts. So if you find those marked on items, take a picture of it and email it to any of us, whoever district you might be in, and if it's where we put those marks, where we know we put those marks, then we would know
 that this is something that came from one of the free food places. That's fair. And I would. So let me let me just explain that it can an item in Corporation Council can tell me if it's wrong, but I don't want that to go out to the public. A food store can buy wherever they want to buy from and resell from what I've researched in the law. So it's not just about saying a particular store because many of us shop at larger
 super stores and it's not illegal for somebody to go. I saw somebody buy a thousand bottles of water the other day. It's not illegal for them to buy it and resell it. It's not illegal for them to go and buy a name brand item and resell it. So I just want to make sure I want everybody called me saying this is some tops bleach on there. They can. And if you buy it, that's the American way, I guess, but yeah.
 Thank you both. Thank you all. Next item. Item number 49, honor and a Helen ceremony fee waiver. Did we do 47? He's asking whether or not we did 47. Is that the moving item? You approved 45 through 47. 45 to 47 were approved. 45 to 47 is approved. No, it's approved. That's in the doc. I was told it was. Did you have a second? Let's just do it. 47. Let's do it again.
 Item number 47 approval of the naming of Eaton Hill Park is an approval. I was told that the proper motion was to approve. So is it different? So you said approve? So we had approval and a second by Councilman Wingo. I just want to make sure the record is straight. Yes. All right.
 Next item. Item number 50, calling on Buffalo School Board in New York State to implement financial literacy course. Motion to adopt the remainder to education. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I think this is so important. I think I've talked to a number of my colleagues about us legislating differently because we are considered one of the third poorest of our size.
 what will we do differently to help those who are challenged? And I think that having conversation or teaching them some of the basics of financial literacy can be a huge help to that. You know, there are football players, there are basketball players who are in the NBA who never had a financial course and have someone else tell them how to spend their money. I think this is important and it's
 I'm not going to say unfortunate. I see that Florida has adopted that, and there's other states that have done it as well. But Florida is one of the examples that I saw and thought that that's a great idea. When you have a city who is challenged financially and
 not graduating at high rates. We need to do all we can to help them with some tools. They may never get a six figure job, but if we can teach them how to do good with five, it can help them and go a long way. And it's something that needs to be permeated, especially in our communities. We don't have the financial wherewithal. We don't have the great investments.
 A lot of times at our table, we're not talking about investing stock. We're talking about just surviving. So if we can help them with some of these tools, I mean, I remember when I took home ec.
 I taught me how to sew and how to cook a little bit. That was a huge help. So again, this is just a conversation. I thank Council Member Bowman for allowing me to go to Education Committee to talk further about it. But I think, again, if we are going to improve the standing of the folks who are struggling in our community, we have to give them the tools. And this is one of the tools that could be used in the toolbox. So thank you. I figured you would do something on finance. Yeah.
 you've always been into it. Council Member Bowman, you have the floor. Thank you, Council President. I thank Council Member Wyatt for bringing this in front of us. I think it's a great idea. I've always been a big supporter as education chairman, and even just trying to get any of the trades and life skills building in our schools. I think it's very important. Next Tuesday is the education committee meeting, and I believe the superintendent will be joining us so we could get her point of view on this as well. So thank you. Thank you.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The follow-up meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor City Hall.
 Meetings may be attended virtual as well please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalo and why.gov for more information on how to attend. Regular committees committee on civil service is Tuesday, June 7 2022 at 945am Committee on Finance file on civil services Tuesday, June 7 2022 at 10am.
 Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, June 7, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, June 7, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special Committees. Committee on Education is Tuesday, June 7 at 11 a.m. Council Members, any announcements for your districts? Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you again, Mr. Chair. We have the Mastin District stakeholders breakfast and meeting this June the 11th at 9 o'clock a.m. at the Delavan Grider Center. That will be at 877 East Delavan, Buffalo, New York. We're asking that everyone please come out, get some great information, get some great food, and please share.
 Your information, we're calling all block clubs back together again. We've done about two dozen cleanups in Mastin already, but we know that there are more areas and parts of the district that need cleanups. We are calling all the block clubs, those who have been active, those who may not have been as active, to come out and get the information on how to become more active so that we can help and...
 uh help them with their initiatives as it relates to the beautification of their neighborhood thank you thank you councilman white thank you mr chair just mr president i just want to welcome the residents of the university district and throughout the city of buffalo to our university united effects field that will be taking place june 11th and 12th it's free and open to the public um we're excited about doing this i mean for two years we've been stuck
 in the pandemic and not able to engage. And so for us to open this up and re-engage and have well-known artists throughout our country, as well as a worship service that we've never had before is really important. I think it's really important to us getting back to normal the best we can. So again, June 11th and the 12th, right at the Oratory Field across from the VA Hospital, looking forward to everyone being there. And it's free and open to the public. Thank you. All right, anything else?
 Adjournment. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Joseph Golombek Jr. Are we getting together? Where are we going?