President. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golumbac. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Here. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Here. Councilmember Wingo. Here. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America for which it stands,
 As we remain standing, our guest chaplain today is no stranger to City Hall. He worked here for many years. He is now the pastor of the Journey Church and he's also in his own business, doing his own business now. And we welcome him as our guest chaplain today, Art Hall. Pastor Art Hall.
 Wonderful introduction, and I just want to say there's a smile on my face every time I connect with this man. It's like stepping into a fountain of entrepreneurial, creative, outside-the-box thinking. And it affects him wherever he goes. He carries that mantle here at City Hall when he was here, his wife as well, in the church setting, in the business setting, in the education setting, every place. So get ready for a breath of fresh air, my friend, Pastor Art Hall. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to take a moment and thank Council President, Common Council, all visitors, guests. I want to start off with a scripture before we get into our invocation. Proverbs chapter 8, verses 15 through 21, 12 through 21, says this. I, wisdom, live together with good judgment. I know where to discover knowledge and discernment.
 All who fear the Lord will hate evil. Therefore, I hate pride and arrogance, corruption and perverse speech. Common sense and success belong to me. Insight and strength are mine. Because of me, kings reign and rulers make just decisions. Rulers lead with my help. Nobles make righteous judgments. I love all who love me. Those who search will surely find me. I have riches and honor as well as enduring wealth and justice.
 My gifts are better than gold and even purest gold. My wages are better than sterling silver. I walk in righteousness, paths of justice. Those who love me inherit wealth and will find their treasures. Want to pray this morning for our leaders, our city, the great people of God, our neighborhoods, and all therein. Let us pray. Eternal Father, we thank you for this opportunity
 to be here in this moment, this time and this space. Ask and pray that you touch each and every one of our hearts, that we may be synchronized together. Ask and pray that you bless our leaders, each and every one of our Common Council members, the representatives of our districts, those that you have bestowed great wisdom, good judgment and responsibility. Give them strength
 Ask and pray, God, that they lean not to their own understanding, but acknowledge you in all their ways so that you can direct their paths. Thank you, God, for the care, the thoughts, and the decisions that are bestowed upon them so that they can govern these, your geographies and your people with great stewardship, a clear conscience, sound mind, and with the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ. God, we ask and pray that as we continue to lead
 to look to their leadership, bless our mayor, ask and pray that you bless this region, our county executive and our governor, that they lean to you in every circumstance and every decision. We thank you and we bless you. It is in Christ's name we pray, and everyone under the sound of my voice said amen. Amen. Thank you so much. Councilmember's memorials. Councilmember Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Joan Boeser, former legislator, active in numerous community organizations. I've worked with her over the years on many historical and Buffalo themed organizations and events throughout the city of Buffalo. Passed on, as did former Riverside High School teacher Charlie Latona.
 I think I was one of the few people that didn't really know Mr. Letoni even after I went back to teach there. I think that he was there when I was teaching, but we were on different floors. And almost every single one of my friends and members of the Riverside High School Alumni Association had a great story about him. Because they had him for homeroom, they had him for detention,
 classes, etc., and I knew him to say hello. So it was interesting. But he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. Just before this meeting, I received a phone call from
 daughter of Carol Johnson she's a former block club leader of Poplar Avenue and she passed a great advocate for her community a fighter for her street she really did change the dynamic of that street with her efforts and being a block club leader and holding everyone accountable so sad to hear that she passed and she'll be sorely missed thank you I remember a
 The woman who unfortunately was killed this past week, they called her Claire. And Claire was a character. When we first moved to our current house, we turned the church into a house, Claire didn't know it wasn't a church anymore.
 and my wife was going out of the door and Claire said I need to go inside and oh I see what do you mean she said I got to go in to pray so I said we could pray at the door but it's no longer a church and I would get in my car and Claire like with so many other people uh would come up knock on the window to get a dollar to get two dollars Claire never hurt anyone
 She was a part of this neighborhood and people respected her and loved her, worried about her more than anything. And Claire will be missed. And then there was another funeral today, I did a funeral today for a young lady who sat right up in these chambers often. Her name was Anne, Anne Paris. She had the Paradise House in which she helped many women coming out of prison.
 and she was here a few weeks ago and her phone went off during the council member meeting. She answered her phone in the chambers and said,
 I got to call you back out loud. And then but she would always be here. She always fought for people who needed somewhere somewhere to go after prison. And people came from Canada. She was actually from Canada. And so today the church was full of people from different countries who came to honor her life.
 For these persons and other persons who have passed since our last meeting, for those who have given their life for the freedom not only of our country, but for the freedom of others, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have special presentations. We'll begin with Council Member Bowman and Noah Kowski for Buffalo-Bangali.
 Good afternoon everyone. Just wanted to take a moment to recognize MD and Kareem and the team from Buffalo, Bangla. You know, as our city becomes more diverse, the Lovejoy District is also increasingly diverse and seeing the Bangladesh population in our communities, and I think it's important that they have, you know,
 Proper outlet to gain information and that's what really this team right here has done throughout the community getting information resources and educating the community in Many ways so we just wanted to take a second to recognize MD and his team and councilmember no Kowski also seeing the same growth in the Fillmore district, so I'll let him say a few words. I
 thank you councilman bowman as our districts grow and become more diverse it's critical for having important information that's vital to our lives not just bulk trash but making sure that a lot of things when it came down to the pandemic and health and safety that things are translated and covered and you guys seem to be everywhere
 I feel like the Buffalo News to the New York Times has got nothing on you guys. You guys seem to be able to translate everything and use a vernacular that's very understanding to your community. So through the freedom of press, I'm very happy that you guys are here in the chambers today. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Welcome to Say a Word.
 Thank you. Thank you, Honorable President and Council Members. Thank you for the honors. Our main target, as you mentioned, to translate the things to our community and also the Buffalo community, help them to understand what is going on surrounding them, and also navigate them through a few things, as I
 Council Member Mnuchinowski said during the pandemic there are so many things to translate and also people need a courage to stay healthy and stay home that's what our target was and we started with that and hopefully with your all of all of your help we'll move on and do our best thank you so much again congratulations next presentation will be Council Member Golombek
 Thank you Mr. President. It's with great pleasure and admiration that I am going to bring down John Teglash to the floor of the council. There's a lot of information here about him, but John's a little bit older than me and grew up around the corner on Resch Avenue. He was the head of the Mudjar Boys when we were kids. That was the toughest group of Hungarians in the neighborhood.
 And they would terrorize JH Williams Park, so a Polish kid like me from the middle of Riverside couldn't go there very often. I'm actually kidding, John was a great guy. Boys and Girls Club, Cardinal Doherty, the whole nine yards. And he was very fortunate to marry Laurie Schavinski many years ago.
 who is also a neighbor and friends from the community. But what John is here for today is for the program that he started 20... 21 years.
 21 years ago at Northwest Buffalo Community Center. And it is a program where they assist senior citizens, lower income people, and others with getting their taxes prepared. I am happy to say that myself and Larry Pernick from the Northwest Buffalo Community Center were believers
 very early on and came up with space, came up with funding, came up with I think computers and whatever it was that they needed which has turned them into I believe out of 9,000 programs nationwide. They are number 19 in the entire country.
 And there are thousands of people from the North District and elsewhere, because it's not just the North District. Other people can come in. But there are thousands of people that get their taxes done every year at Northwest Buffalo Community Center, at the Riverside Elaine Panty Library, and at other locations throughout the district. And without further ado, I would like to present this to John Teglash and then have him say a few words. Thank you, Chair.
 Wow, that's awesome. Okay. Okay. All right, this is really special. Thank you, council members. Okay, wow.
 Well, first of all, this is very special to me and to our staff. We have 35 members on our staff, hardworking, dedicated, and committed to the program and want to make a difference in our community. If they want to stand up, there's just a few of them here. They don't want to stand? Wave, wave. An incredible staff. It's just not myself. I mean, it's the 35 members that worked together to make this work.
 Every year, we've been doing this for 21 years. And it really starts from the top, Executive Larry Pernick. He believed in our program 21 years ago and supported it 100%. Our management team, Stan Postolka, Tom Kerr, Professor Joe Capucino, Capucinski, okay, where we start in October getting ready for the tax season in January.
 And our greeters, our screeners, our tax preparers, our quality review staff, all working together to make this work. It's an amazing team that we have. And to be ranked 19th in the nation out of over 9,000 sites is incredible. And I honestly believe within a couple years, we could probably hit the top ten at the rate we're going right now, which is really amazing. And unsure where we would be today if it wasn't for Councilman Joe Golombek and his staff.
 Because when we started out earlier on, we struggled. We needed equipment. We needed resources. We needed printers. Laptops were breaking down. We relied on Joe, and he came through every time. So really, a lot of this has to do with Joe Golumpik as well. So thank you so much. And we'll continue this every year. This is great. Thank you. Thank you.
 And I did forget to say that out of all of his volunteers, they get paid a grand total of $0.
 These are volunteers, they're real volunteers. We hear sometimes about paid volunteers. There's no such thing. These are real volunteers that give their time to come into the neighborhood, some of the cases where they live and some where they grew up. But they come in and they give their time, their energy, and their time especially to our neighborhood and our city. So once again, not just to John, although this is honoring you, but to all the volunteers who help out as well. Thank you, very much appreciated.
 We now have a presentation by Councilmember Rasheed White. I want to bring a young lady down who probably doesn't need an introduction. She's everywhere. Erin M. Moss. She is a mental health counselor and a fierce advocate for mental health. I want to bring you down.
 And I see her Facebook page and all the information that she provides to the community. She's just somebody that's very awesome, very present, especially as it relates to mental health issues in our community. And sometimes we have been missed when it comes to mental health, black and brown people. And she puts a face on it and she makes it very real for us and it's relatable. And so I want to bring her up and acknowledge her.
 For all that she does as an advocate, as a public speaker, mental health expert, who has dedicated her life's work in breaking the stigma around mental health, helping people achieve a fulfilling life, Erin has shown a deep understanding of the struggles faced by young women in finding their identity, self-worth, purpose, and self-esteem.
 purpose in life and has utilized her faith, personal experience, and professional knowledge to guide and support individuals on their journey to self-discovery and empowerment. Erin has, Erin has shown, Erin M Moss has shown a particular passion for addressing mental health concerns within the communities of color, advocating and increased present representation in the healthcare field and media. Um, I can read all this, but this is just an incredible woman. And I thank her for what she does and the, the, um,
 steadfastness that she does it in is very deliberate. She's very present. And I thank you for all that you do for our community and letting people know that mental illness is okay when you deal with it. And we have someone that can relate to you. So thank you, Erin M. Moss. Wow. Thank you so much. You know I have some things to say. I would like to thank the Buffalo Common Council for this amazing honor.
 Thank you, Council Member Wyatt. I'm at a loss for words, but I'm going to find them. Thank you, Mayor Brown. I would like to thank my parents, Derek and Benita Middlebrooks. My dad is here, if you can please stand. Thank you. And my family in Spartanburg, South Carolina, watching. That's where the majority of my family is, and they're always cheering me on.
 My friends who are my family. I have a teacher here that knew me when I was 10 years old. Friends that have known me that long. Boards that I serve on. Mental health advocates of Western New York. And Christian counseling ministries of Western New York, both of which I proudly stand by and serve on. And God, I thank you for carrying me. Lord, I know this is your work. Just that I'm here. Just that I'm standing. Thank you.
 As you know, I'm a mental health therapist and the proud owner of Erin M. Moss Mental Health Counseling Private Practice. I am a full-time private practitioner that takes a lot of hard work and dedication. If I don't make it happen, it doesn't happen. I am so proud to be here in this moment, to be given a proclamation.
 Over the years, I have helped children and adults in individual and family sessions. I have watched so many people grow and go on to live successful lives. I am so grateful they came to me in their moments of hardship. We all have those times. Every single one of us face obstacles in life. When we think about mental health, we need to think about destigmatizing counseling treatment.
 Think about the average person just needing someone to talk to. Maybe they're going through a divorce, a death of a loved one, or recently had a baby and is not feeling like themselves. These are the people that are most often questioning if going to counseling would mean they are crazy. Those are the people that are told to just pray it away or to brush it off. This is how, as a society, we can create an even bigger issue, because if the people
 that fall into this category aren't able to get the mental health support they deserve, these issues don't go away, they increase. It's likely that then it develops into a bigger issue. Persistent depressive disorders, chronic PTSD, extreme anger, these issues impact their ability to function in the workplace and in society. We have the ability to change that, simply encouraging people to get the help they deserve by not making people feel less than for seeking mental health treatment.
 We live in a time where people are afraid of individuals with mental illness. Understand that this impacts how we look at anyone seeking mental health treatment. If you are an individual living with a mental illness and you have any type of diversity, a black person or a person from the LGBTQ community or a person with a disability, you are at even more of a risk of facing discrimination.
 Everywhere, people that fall into this double category of having mental illness and being a person from diversity are being mistreated. A person like this could be killed while riding on public transportation or during a mental health crisis in their own home. This has to change. This is why week after week I get up and I open the doors of my practice. This is why I continue to share information and encouragement.
 My thought has always been if I could just help one person, and I have. Praise God, I have helped so many. But we can all be advocates for mental health. Start by saying to yourself, what if this was my family member? What if this was me? Maybe then you can see the person behind the illness. Thank you.
 Hold on, dad is coming down. Thank you all for your patience. We know that you'd love to stay, but we'll give you a few seconds for those who would like to exit. About, send the clerk up. It's not an open forum. I'll send somebody up to see what you need to talk about. All right.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on May 16th, 2023 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Hearing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review an item. For those who are watching from social media, if the camera gets a little unsteady, our systems are down and so we are broadcasting
 streaming through a phone and then the recorded session will be put up after the meeting. If we could have security to close the top doors. Do we have anybody from security?
 All right, are we going from the top? From the top. From the top. Item number one, contract renewal for environmental services. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, certificate of necessity. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number three, inter-fund loan, South Park Loop Bridge replacement. Motion to receive and file items three and four. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number five, account number clarification. Motion to approve items five through 11. Second by Council Member Scanlon.
 Item 23-810 has been withdrawn. Item number 12, permission to hire consultative agreement. Motion to approve items 12 and 13. Second by Council Member White. Item 23-813 has been withdrawn. Item number 14, reported bids in Gen 32. Motion to approve items 14 and 15. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 item number 16 appointed sister assistant corporation council motion to send civil service second by council member columbia item number 17 food store license 195 high street this item is open i apologize you should go to ledge ledge motion to send pledge
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 18, full start license, 3063 Main Street. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 19, new used car dealer 32 Skilling. I'll defer to Councilmember from the North District. This can be approved. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 20, purchase used fire vehicle. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Perfect. Item number 21, DPW, obtain and tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 21 and 22. Second by Council Member White. Item number 23, BSA, board attendance. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 24, chicken license, 297 Eden Street. I'll defer to South District Council Member. Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member, present pro tem scandal. Actually...
 Is this the first time it's gone? Yeah, to ledge. So it wasn't in committee, so it's Senate to ledge. Not a problem. So the motion is correct, the motion is to send it to ledge. Motion now is to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Scalab. Item number 25, chicken license for 146 Futon. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 26, cannabis dispensary notice for 1297 Hurdle. Motion to receive and file items 26 and 27. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item number 28, appoint police civilians camera monitor. Motion to send the civil service items 28 and 29. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 30, notice of appointment for Council Inter.
 Motion to adopt item 30 and 31. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Miscellaneous, item number 32, Buffalo Common Council Citizens Budget Survey Report. Motion to receive and file item 32 and 33. Second by Councilmember White who has the floor. I just want to speak on this item and thank the staff for their hard work.
 I know that you know it was during that budget process and we're trying to get everything in and address everything in a high pace But they did an awesome job in getting information and there was a lot of things that came out again This is the mayor's budget, but we did have input in some of the areas that residents did were in
 concerned about so we did have that conversation but I think again we need to continue with that process because we get some insight that we don't get during the hearing so again thank the staff for the awesome job and getting a survey done in there
 I will have hundreds of people that really signed up and filled it out. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Item number 34, place a historic marker at Washington and Eagle. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Ferrell. Item number 35, letter from Central Terminal Neighborhood Association. Motion to send the legislation. Second by President Pro Tempest. Item number 36, concerns regarding violence at Lafayette Square. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'd also like to ask staff to invite Mr. Nemeth into the committee. This was sent, I think, to all nine of us, and it's indicative of the problems I think that we're having throughout all of our districts. I just had my second murder in a week on Delaware Avenue near Tacoma. So I'd just like to have Mr. Nemeth in if he's available to discuss this. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Item 37, do not eat fish advisory for Chajacota Creek. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 38, US Supreme Court in a Penn City illegally kept surplus funds. I'll defer to Council President. This can go to legislation, is that what this is? Motion to send to legislation. Yep, second by Council Member Ferraletto.
 Item number 39, Seeker Negative Declaration for 147, 149, 157, 159, 131, 167, West Tupper, and 42, 44, Trinity Place. Motion to adopt item 39 and 40. Second by Councilmember White. Petitions item number 41, Co-Migli in Event, application for 69, West Chippewa. It's going to committee.
 we've been sending the community development motion to send the CD it's gonna go to ledge your ledge or finish the center ledge send the ledge item number 42 special use 750 Kenmore for assembly motion is sent to legislation City Planning Board items 42 through 46 and by councilmember Bowman submission list civil service item number one Brittany Montgomery the diversity inclusionary coordinator
 Motion is to receive and file items one and two. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number three, fiscal year 2023-2024 Comptroller Budget Response. Motion to receive and file items three, four, five, and six. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Community Development, item number seven, Francis John and Frederick Douglass Apartment Projects. Motion to approve items seven and eight. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number nine, Rates Your Rise Survey.
 Motion to receive and file nine through and including 15. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Legislation item number 16, Seeker-Nagdek for 462 Niagara Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 17, Fuster, license 825 Broadway. Motion to approve with conditions item 17,
 Approve 18, approve 19, and 20 with conditions. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 21, Fuster, license 1780 Seneca Street. Motion to recommit 21 and 22. Second by Councilmember Colombo. Item number 23, Fuster, license 669 Walden Avenue. Motion to approve with conditions 23, approve 24, and approve 25 with conditions. Second by Councilmember Colombo. Item number 26, special use for 1954 Clinton for tobacco, hookah, and vape sales. Motion to deny.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. This denial is based off of a community meeting where the residents and the applicant agreed that the smoke shop wasn't the best fit, but he is moving forward with a different license, so we've come to a resolution. But that's the reason for denial. Thank you.
 Thank you. All right, thank you sir. 27, zone and map amendment 549 Utica, West Utica from the N2R to the N2E. Motion to approve. Second by the majority leader, Riviera. Item number 28, used car dealers, 637 Tiff. Motion to recommit items 28 and 29. Second by President Pro Temsken.
 so on item number 30 zone and map amendment for 325 water motion to approve so my comes remember no Akowski and a number 31 special use one harbour Lane aka 329 area motion to receive in file second by councilmember no Akowski in number 32 special use 365 Byrd Avenue motion to approve with conditions items 32 approved 33 and 34
 Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 35, Letter of Opposition for Special Use for 397 Jefferson. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 36, Fuster License 1370, a.k.a. 1372 Fillmore. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Bowman. Resolutions. Item number 47, Commissioner Deeds.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 48, waive fees for school 31 field day. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 49, home rule request for 82137, Senate 6292, increased sale of bonds for Buffalo Sword Authority. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item number 50, ordinance amendment for chapter 175 on fees. Motion to send to legislation items 50 and 51. Second by Councilmember Fairlawn.
 Item number 52, waive fees for accommodating and honoring the life of PFC David Evans. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 53, Supreme Court ruling on MREM surplus payments. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to legislation.
 Thank you, and that's second by Council Member Fioletto. This is, I think attached to it is the recent Supreme Court ruling on in-rim surplus funds from a county, from a municipality. I think that it's a very important ruling I have talked to.
 our representatives in Albany because they will have to be from what I understand some movement in Albany in the next few days however what I was told on Sunday is that they're really trying to get that get this moving so that people who are old money from in rim sales can get their money very I won't I can't refer to our situation I'm just
 Globally saying I am very happy with the Supreme Court's ruling and would love to see things move And I'll leave it there or corporation council will kick me under the table Did you have comes from every beer? I don't want to say anything where the corporation council will stare at me, but I am pleasantly I
 I can't say surprised at the unanimous decision that the Supreme Court rendered. At a time where this nation is divided in so many different ways, the Supreme Court was united, unanimous on this. I think they understand more than anything how important a person's property is to them.
 And if you're going to take their property, you should do everything possible to make sure that whatever surplus goes to them. No matter what we do locally or statewide to try to circumvent that by saying we struck it to the city, now it's a gift of public funds and so we can't give it away, that to me is
 way of not making people whole and I think the Supreme Court said hey we have to make people whole whatever is owed to them so I'm happy and I hope that the state in this resolution I am I can't say how pleasantly I'm happy I was to hear this decision come out of Washington thank you very much absolutely thank you
 All right, next item. Item number 54, calling for transparency regarding city job vacancies. Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to civil service. And Councilmembers, second by Councilmember Ferralotto, during the budget, one of the questions was how many empty jobs. What this will trigger is along with the reports of overtime for police and fire every other month.
 we are also asking for this report and it helps us along the year instead of getting to budget time and having to figure out everything at the end and so I think that the more eyes we have more information we have the better that we can do the job that we are entrusted to do so thank you for support item number 55 wave fees for eat in the park
 Motion to approve items 55 through 61. Second by Councilmember Fierletto. Item number 62, transfer of funds for BFD. Motion to send finance item 62 and 63. Second by Councilmember Bolton.
 And on number 64, inquiry into child ID kits implementation in Buffalo Public Schools and Buffalo Police Department. Motion is to adopt the resolve and to send it to police oversight. And we ask that the representatives from the Board of Education be present.
 Great, second by Council Member White who has the floor. Thank you Mr. President and thank my colleagues for supporting this. Many of us see seemingly on a daily basis missing children in our community. And I thank Karima Morris and Kelly Diane, founder of Mona's House and Karima founded Burry the Violence.
 I thank them for coming during that budget cycle and discussing this because sometimes we need to be Reminded of some things and it called to do something greater. I know that we used to have a Children's ID many years ago I think my children got those children IDs and for some reason we stopped and maybe because I Think there was a situation where a young man was kidnapped and so they had the IDs for him. I
 But we need to revisit this because there's too often that children are going missing. Parents, caregivers are...
 scrambling to try to get information of their height, their size, their weight, fingerprints, and those things. I'm hopeful that the school board will hear us along with the Buffalo Police and put something in place by the fall. This is a crisis, I believe, because again, every other day you see something, an alert, about a child missing. So I'm hoping that we can use the vehicles that we have within our organizations to really make this happen, to give
 parents a little peace of mind you don't want your child to be missing but if they are they do become missing we have some documentation or something that we can share with law enforcement or others who are participate
 to try to recapture and find that child. So again, thank my colleagues for that. And I know Dr. Cressley is here, is hoping that we can begin this process to have conversation on what we can do and hopefully can be cost effective. But there's no cost that we should be concerned about when it comes to making sure that the child is safe and is found. Thank you. Agreed. Announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. No, no, go ahead. I wanted to know if we could revisit item number 20. You want to go back to an item? I'm sorry.
 item number 20 the purchase used the fire vehicle that one yes all right i don't know number 20 purchase used fire vehicle
 Councilmember did Thank You council president this item was originally marked as going to the Finance Committee I was wondering if the majority the council members would be willing to mark this as an approval This is the purchase of a used fire apparatus that the department desperately needs I believe there if we do not approve it today. There's a chance that we can miss out on it I did speak to the chair of the Finance Committee He's comfortable with approving it for now So if the majority the council members could approve it it'd be a big help to the fire department. Let's do it so we
 Revisit item number 20. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Motion is now to approve. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. They can go by the used fire truck.
 Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, June 6, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance. Following civil service is Tuesday, June 6, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, June 6, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, June 6, 2023 at 2 p.m.
 Council members, any announcements for your district? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. June 10th, this coming, not coming Saturday, but two Saturdays from now, Mass and District will host our stakeholders breakfasts again, except this Saturday, June the 10th at 9 AM. It's a special event that'll be occurring during our breakfast where we will have a meet the candidates forum. Kind of was a little disappointing not to hear that there are no debates happening, but this is not a debate.
 This is a meet the candidates forum where the community, they're going to come out and ask questions just to get to know their candidates better. We believe that we should make very educated decisions this coming race and not leave anything to reputation or guessing.
 So that will be again 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Riders Center at 9 o'clock June 10th. Meet the candidates. Also, we will be having a warm breakfast, hot breakfast served. So please come on out and get that good food again at the Mass in Districts. Take over the breakfast. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. I was a little worried. You said warm breakfast.
 No, I want to know warm eggs and the council member. Why thank you Mr. President and just want to let the community know about our ninth annual University United Festival That will be taking place June 10th and 11th. I
 headlining by the whispers and on Sunday we have Hezekiah Walker we have a parade on Saturday beginning at 2 p.m. so if you have not registered you better get there quick but um we're gonna have a parade so we're looking for awesome time two years after the pandemic we are we need some fun we need some joy and you will have it at the University United Festival on June 10th right across from VA Hospital thank you thank you sir all right
 Any other announcements? What time is what? Did you say what time the festival starts other than the 2 o'clock parade? Right. What time is the actual- It starts at 3. Okay, good. Festival is at 3. Parade is at 2. So if you want to get in the parade, get there at 2. If you want to be in the festival, and get there at 3. All right, no other announcements? Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Brian J. Bowman.