And we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrell-Lotto. Here. Council Member Glombach. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Quorum is present. Present.
 Thank you. Can we do our pledge to the flag please? Thank you. And we are now joined by our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President.
 At different times, for me, different scriptures take on a depth of meaning and understanding that perhaps I didn't see or recognize in previous times. Over the last year, one of those scriptures that has been sort of a bedrock for me is a very simple scripture, James 1, verse 5.
 If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you. If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God. I could easily change that to say, because I regularly lack wisdom, I need to ask God for wisdom. Wisdom is even harder sometimes to find or to recognize when we're in
 times of uncertainty, waters that are choppy and storm ridden. And I think that's the time that all of us in our city find ourselves in. But it doesn't just say if I lack wisdom, it says if any of you lacks wisdom, you can ask God and he'll give it generously without finding fault. It's an amazing time in the sense that for all of us in every
 person who resides and lives in our precious city of Buffalo, every leader among us is in times where wisdom beyond our own is necessary to navigate these waters for so many who depend on us.
 My wisdom ran out a long time ago, my friends, but God's has not. And so today, as we look to him to structure this meeting, even, I believe any of you who need wisdom for the decisions to be made, he is more than generous to want to give it to you in great measure. Let's pray together.
 Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for James 1. Lord, for those on this call, for those that have tuned in, for those who are part of our precious city, who lack wisdom today in so many different ways.
 in employment, in education, as parents, as neighborhood residents, as leaders in all kinds of different venues. Lord, for those of us who don't know always what to do or how to do it in uncertain times, we look to you, faithful Father, and ask for direction and guidance and wisdom.
 What's uncertain to me certainly is not to you, and I pray even today that as these deliberations take place amongst and between the Common Council members and others that will be part of this, that Lord, you'd grace us with wisdom beyond our own insight and revelation. Help us to do what's best for those we're called to serve. Thank you for your powerful presence and more than enough of what we need.
 And we thank you for all that in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members, any memorials? Council Member Golombet. I do. Council Member Golombet. Can you hear me now? Now we can.
 Okay, thank you. Yeah, sorry I'm having computer glitch again. I wanted to put in memoriam Hassan Al-Khalil Golden, the brother of my friend Shahid who was a former coach with Little League football in the Riverside neighborhood he's going to be very very
 sorely missed by his family. Also, James Doyle, a longtime Riverside resident, he's leaving behind his mom, Mrs. Doyle. They were Irish immigrants that came and lived in a big Irish enclave in Black Rock in Riverside. You hear that, Scanlon? We had a great deal of them when I was a young man, and he passed away last week.
 He's going to be very, very sorely missed by the Doyle family, as well as his friends from the Riverside community and the Wegmans community where he works. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Council President. Lovejoy District lost a few members, including Dino Palumbo, who was a resident of the Lovejoy neighborhood on Gold Street. Palumbo family was a big family name in the Lovejoy neighborhood. Dino loved to garden and cook, his family tells me, and he'll be sorely missed.
 We also lost Paul Andruski, who lived to see 100 years old. So he lived a full life, a Kisertown resident of ours, and always active in the community and active with the church. And then also just like to mention, you know, the passing of Neil Dobbins,
 who actually lived in my district on Newburgh Street, and his sister worked in my office for many years. So we knew the work that Neil Dobbins did in MVP, and across all of our districts, he worked tremendously hard to, you know, help,
 the youth in our communities. I would see Neil across my district all the time, even probably more than he knew. And I saw him out there working. So I certainly appreciate his dedication to our community. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? I do agree.
 Councilman Bowman, Neal, I wasn't able to attend services, but we did send something from the council and was able to be with him last year before COVID at different events. And he was just so dedicated and not even having, I don't believe he had any small children at home anymore, but he cared.
 about everybody else's children. And it's a huge, huge loss for our community. Also today, we funeralized Mary Walker, who was a committee person, was very committed over in the Jefferson Avenue area. Her brother, Luther Walker, and other family members were
 Many will know Luther, who is very active in the community also. So we mourn her. And last week, they buried their brother. So a sister and a brother dies within two weeks of each other. And so we know that the Walker family needs our prayers. And so we recognize them.
 We always recognize our men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of others since our last meeting. We pause these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a special presentation by Council Members Bowman and Wingo.
 Thank you, Council President. I'd like to start by just welcoming our representatives from the Navy here today. We have Vice Admiral Lisa Franchitti. She is the Director of Policy for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And we also have Captain Gonzalez, who is the Commanding Officer of our state namesake, the USS New York.
 And so a welcome and we did a proclamation here. All the council members had signed it. So I'll just read that briefly for you. The city of Buffalo is honored to have the presence of the United States Navy in our community. The US Navy is instrumental in ensuring the safety and security of our shores while protecting countless imports and exports from New York State.
 Navy Weeks celebrated in naval communities across the country are signature outreach programs that strengthen community ties to the service.
 We, the members of the City of Buffalo Common Council, hereby proclaim that June 14th through June 20th, 2021, will be recognized as Navy Week in the City of Buffalo to acknowledge the enormous role of the heroes of the US Navy and their contributions to our city, state, and nation. So congratulations, thank you very much.
 Thank you. We have anyone want to have words? Vice Admiral? Good afternoon, Council President Pridgen and Council members. I'm Lisa Franchetti. It's really a pleasure to be with you virtually. I wish I could be there in person, but I am pretty excited about your Navy week and the opportunity to really engage with the greater Buffalo community. As you know, as it was just mentioned, I'm serving currently on the
 staff of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is the Director of Strategy, Plans, and Policy. But more importantly than that, I am a proud upstate New Yorker graduating from Pittsburgh Mendenhall over in Rochester, New York, way back in 1981. I did want to have just a few minutes of your time just to say again, no matter how far you are from the coast in Buffalo, Buffalo is definitely a Navy town.
 Your Buffalo and Erie County Naval and Military Park is the largest inland Navy park in the United States, home to the four decommissioned naval vessels that have served their nation well. I know the park's mission really is to honor our veterans, the active duty military, all the families involved.
 educate folks about the history, the service and the sacrifice of our Navy and inspire a sense of patriotism and appreciation for protecting the values that are enshrined in our Constitution. And the presence of the park and your commitment to Navy Week really speaks volumes about the support the Navy receives from the city of Buffalo. And I think even though this is a hybrid virtual
 live event. You are going to have a great time. It's a super opportunity for the people of Buffalo to meet sailors and learn a little bit about what our Navy is doing for you today. So I thought I would just take a few minutes to share with you the really critical role our Navy is playing in what is definitely a very complex and rapidly changing security environment. I think you just heard it in that proclamation that many things have changed.
 about what our Navy is doing today. But I would say that some things haven't changed. So since the Little Rock and the Sullivans and the Croker and PTF 17 were in service, our Navy has always been a maritime nation. We always will be. And our security and prosperity definitely depend on our free access to the seas. For 245 years, your Navy has operated forward to protect commerce and keep all of the fights far from our shores.
 And I think when you step back and look at since the end of the World War II, we've sailed alongside like-minded navies. And together, we've been able to provide stability. We've deterred great power war. We've preserved peace. And we've ushered in prosperity for billions of people around the world. The vessels that you have there right in your midst, they have great stories. And they have all borne witness to that history.
 But just like these ships and the sailors that crewed them faced an uncertain future, really so do we. And I think that the collective security that we've been enjoying, and in fact, indeed, our way of life is now under threat. China and Russia are actively undermining the free and open conditions at sea that have benefited so many generations of Americans and really people around the world. So as I talk to you today, there are 296 ships,
 68 submarines and about 350,000 sailors serving all over the globe, on the sea, under the sea, in the air, on the land, in space and in cyberspace. They're standing the watch around the clock to underwrite the freedoms that we all enjoy today. And our acquisition professionals are working hand in hand with industry to develop and design the new capabilities that we're going to need to deter, fight and win in the future.
 I would tell you that today your Navy is operating on the front lines of this strategic competition. I saw it every day during my time as a Sixth Fleet Commander over there in Naples, Italy, responsible for operations in the European and African theaters.
 So let me just give you a quick my top five list of the things that the Navy is doing for you and for our nation today. Number one, our Navy is protecting American prosperity. 90% of our trade moves on the ocean and 90% of international data moves on undersea cables. Sea power defends that prosperity. Thank you.
 Number two, your Navy's protecting America's security. The Joint Force and our allies are relying on the Navy's warfighting capabilities and to keep access open to the sea lanes of communication. Sea power protects the homeland, and it enables America's armed forces to get where they need to go and operate around the world.
 Number three, the Navy is protecting American values. Free and open access to the world's oceans advances the promise of a free and open international order. Sea power protects those freedoms from those who would use intimidation to undermine international law. Number four, the Navy is protecting our future in America. I think a flexible force influences events abroad. It contributes to regional stability, and it preserves the future peace. And finally, number five,
 your Navy remains America's away team. We operate forward and ready to respond 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. As the global security situation goes more uncertain, being forward and present ensures we can assertively contest the challenges that infringe upon the seas,
 And from humanitarian assistance and disaster response to combat operations at sea and ashore, your Navy gives options to our national decision makers to respond to a variety of crises. And when I talk about the Navy, I might be creating an image in your mind of gray-holed ships, black submarines, white airplanes, and multicolored cyber networks, but I'm really talking about a lot more than that. I'm talking about our sailors.
 the sailors who operate all that fantastic equipment because really without their talent all of that capability can go nowhere and do nothing. I'd like to say that our sailors are a secret weapon and after working with them for 35 years I can tell you firsthand that this all-volunteer force is made up of America's finest sons and daughters
 and reflects the very fabric of our nation. You would be amazed to see that responsibility that we give to these young men and women every day and how they run with it, living up to our core values of honor, courage, and commitment and embracing our attributes of integrity, accountability, initiative, and toughness. So when you meet our sailors this week, please take advantage of the opportunity to learn more about what they do and why they serve.
 and please encourage your best and brightest to check out the Navy and consider serving in the world's greatest Navy. I really want to thank you for your time today, thank you for the proclamation, thank you for supporting the Navy and for all you do for our sailors, the veterans and their families and I hope you have an absolutely fantastic Navy week. I did want to give just a minute to introduce you to Captain Javier Gonzalez, the commanding officer of the USS New York
 Captain Gonzalez took command back on November 30th as the ship's ninth commanding officer. So Javier, congratulations on taking command of that fine warship. And I'd like to give you a few seconds to say something yourself as the ship's namesake for this fleet week. Thank you.
 Vice Admiral, thank you for the introduction and thank you to the council members for giving me the opportunity to represent the good ship of the USS New York, the namesake of the state of New York. I'm very excited to be part of the Fleet Week.
 And I really appreciate the proclamation for the council members on this year's Fleet Week. It's an exciting time. We have been doing Fleet Weeks for a while now, the Navy has, since back in 2012. We started doing just Fleet Weeks for a good reason. We wanted to showcase what the Navy brings to the American citizens. And I think we will be doing a great job this year, even though we're doing a lot of virtual engagements like this one.
 I think there is some of the series of events that are gonna be extremely fascinating for the city of Buffalo to include the air show that is taking place by the Blue Angels on Saturday and Sunday. I think that's gonna be extremely exciting for the city of New York.
 I say no more. I don't want to take any more of your time. I can tell you that I represent 358 sailors and Marines on board the USS New York that anytime that we can represent the state of New York, they're very proud and very enthusiastic to be part of any of these events. So thank you for having me and thank you again for the proclamation. This is USS New York. Thanks. Thank you. Council Member Wingo?
 Thank you. I just want to say to Vice Admiral Franchetti and to Captain Gonzalez that I am indeed privileged to be able to hear you speak on today and to see some of the faces
 that keep our borders safe in land and in sea and in air. So we just want to thank you for all of what you do. I don't think many of us who have not served can really comprehend the work that you do. It is literally unfathomable. It is incalculable. It is immeasurable. And we just want to tell you all thank you. I just lost a minister of music at my church. He was in the Navy.
 He had to go down and assist his family whose His son literally was shipped out and he went down to go assist his family. So to my My guy minister Ralph J Fleming if he's watching from where he is right now There's no this is for you to thank you off what you do Thank you for your service and thank you for your time today and a vice admiral I
 Thank you for everything that you've explained today and all of the words that you've shared with us. It was definitely inspiring. I don't think regular old citizens really know the sacrifices you all make.
 being in the armed service. My daughter's in the armed service. My nephews are in the armed service. My brother, my father are in the armed service. And today, this month, June is actually PTSD month as well. And we have no idea as regular citizens, all of the trauma that you all have to face on a daily and regular basis to keep us safe and to protect our liberties. But from my mouth to your ears, thank you. And thank you for the time, Mr. President.
 Thank you and thank you to all who are on. This is probably the highest ranking officer that we or navy person that we've ever had on including air force and army and anything else so it was an honor to have you all on. Thank you. Next, do we have Dewitt Lee on the line? I can't see everybody so I'm not sure
 I am here, Mr. Council President. Ah, you just showed up on my screen. DeWitt Lee, we are recognizing as we commemorate the 100th year of commemoration of the Black Wall Street Massacre.
 And I know that you are involved in the efforts and with the local chapter, I believe. And if you could, and so first of all, we wanna thank you for being involved and bringing attention. This is something that has not been talked about around America very often.
 And so now to be at the 100th year, we want to applaud and thank and extend our appreciation to all for their contributions to recognize the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Massacre and honor this week as Black Wall Street Week here. And if you, for those who may be watching, for some that may be on who don't understand what the Black Wall Street Massacre was about, can you, in just a few minutes,
 Two minutes or less, just kind of reflect on that. I will. And I want to just extend my deepest gratitude and thankfulness for this opportunity. I want to thank this city council for providing this platform to speak about the atrocities that took place a hundred years ago. And for those who are not aware, um,
 A hundred years ago in Greenwood, which was recognized this district as Black Wall Street because of its thriving and prosperous business community, was attacked by a ravenous mob that if you want to get an idea of what...
 what this threat looked like, just take a look at what took place at the Capitol building in D.C. This recklessness, this lawlessness, and this bloodthirsty fervor that filled the hearts of all those
 many professionals, people who we entrust with our kids, whether it's school bus drivers or teachers or doctors who found themselves being part of devastation. That 100 years ago, if that same kind of commitment to destruction was seen by the residents of Greenwood District known as Black Wall Street. And because of a rumor,
 because that was escalated through some press releases and through irresponsible media, a mob decided to destroy this prosperous Black community by burning down the buildings on land and through air. I mean, they employed airplanes
 to drop bombs. And residents who are home, were reading to their kids and cooking dinner, are attending movie theaters, were now all of a sudden under attack on American soil. So Americans destroying America. And it was a moment that has left a truly...
 gap between the business community and their rightful place in this economy, not just in Tulsa, but around the world, because these are scare tactics.
 And, you know, we have yet to see this kind of prosperity of black businesses. We're talking about 34 blocks that were damaged. And every day during Black Wall Street Week, which is from May 31st to the 7th, we have actually have taken a 34 second moment of silence just to pay tribute to Blacks.
 what is taking place. But the good news is that we have embraced this moment around the world to rejuvenate and to rediscover, you know, business communities and create an opportunity and a platform for businesses to thrive.
 Thank you so much. And I never learned this in history class in school. And I think it's so important. So we will get to your proclamation, you and your organization. And thank you for everything that you do around the city. We really appreciate you. Well, I truly thank you. And I don't know if this would this be my last opportunity to share a word.
 Yes, we have to move on with the council meeting but if you have something very brief. Yes, I will of course I want to thank God I want to thank you know our ancestors for the work for laying a foundation for us to stand upon, I would like to thank our, the black Wall Street week team. Of course Howard Johnson the honor of Howard Johnson, and the honorable April Baskin who produced a proclamation for us as well. And of course to you, Council President and the rest of your colleagues.
 taking this bold step with us. We are excited to accept this challenge as being the only Black Wall Street Week commemoration in the entire world. We also would like to pay tribute to what the Tulsa City Council has recommended and they have not, they have did a little bit more than us but rightfully so. They have dedicated from May 31st 2021 to May 31st 2022 as a year of commemoration, truth-telling
 atonement and healing. So we just want to thank Tulsa City Council for giving us this mandate. We are excited about cultivating a vibrant African-American business community here in Buffalo around the principles of prosperity that formed these successful black business communities that happened in this country. Under the worst times ever, Jim Crow laws and land lust, which created opposition and intimidation, which stifled dreams of creating generational wealth.
 Today, we unite in Buffalo to create a rejuvenated Black Wall Street here. And with the support of CNR Housing, which is located at the historical 230 Pratt Building, have provided us with a hub, a hub for Black innovation and enterprise. And we are building great momentum behind a petition to rename Pratt
 from Genesee to William Street as Black Wall Street. And we look for your help and cooperation in making this happen. We have honored several Black businesses with the Black Wall Street Week Awards, including the Challenger and Vision Multimedia Group. But I just wanted to share this piece of history with you before I go. This is an actual proclamation from the Common Council of the City of Buffalo from 1978.
 And this was actually paying tribute right here to one of the greatest businesswomen in mind that this city has ever had the privilege of calling one of its own. And they extended their sympathy in a memoriam for Miss Anna Montgomery Woodson of the Little Harlem Hotel, which here in your beloved, in our beloved African American Heritage Corridor is a plaque.
 So she is going to be our honoree, our 2021 Black Wall Street Week honoree. And I just want to share this piece of history with you all, which includes the names of, you know, Mr. Herb Bellamy and James Pitts, Anthony Mastolino, and so many more. So we want to thank you, Common Council, for continuing to honor her.
 our ancestors and those doing things in the present day. Thank you. Thank you. And can we have a copy of that? Because that's when they used to do it by calligraphy. Yes, sir. Of course. We don't do it like that anymore. So I would love to have that and frame it. And so thank you. I say, I say, is Star Valentino on the call?
 All right. So I'll trade you then. I'll trade you. I'll trade you a copy of that for the proclamation. All righty. Thank you. All right. Well, the Common Council is recognizing Star Valentino for Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day, which is a nationwide effort observed in thousands of cities across the United States to celebrate neighborly love and kindness.
 And so we wanted to wreck it. I see his I see his I see he's on. But if you can unmute star if you're there.
 Can you hear me? Okay, now we can hear you. Whereas the vision of Do Something Good for Your Neighbors for millions of people to show selfless love, compassion, acts of charity toward our fellow neighbors, I dare as frigid proclaim May 16, 2021 is Do Something Good for Your Neighbor Day in the city of Buffalo and join along and encourage residents of all ages, cultures, religions.
 and all economic backgrounds to participate by spreading random acts of kindness throughout all the neighbors of the city. And thank you so much, sir, for being the founder in Atlanta, Georgia, in 2009. You have the floor for a few minutes of comment, if you'd like. Thank you, uh,
 Council President Darius Pridgett, I appreciate this honor. I honor you, I respect you, and I look up to you. So this is a huge honor for me, you know, coming to you. For those who don't know, just as a quick update, on May 16th, cities all across America was landmarks were lit up purple on behalf of this day, from Hawaii to Florida, you name it, man, it was totally amazing.
 But I would like to thank the County Executive Office of Mark Polinar for lighting up the old County Hall building. I would like to thank Mitch Nowinski for assisting to get the Buffalo City Hall dome lit purple, and as well as Niagara Falls. So the City of Buffalo has always been a part of all of the things that I've been putting together for this initiative.
 And I would like to thank Governor Andrew Cuomo for recognizing this day for five straight years, as well as County Executive Mark Polanar. I really have to show them love because they invited me down to their office and I had a nice conversation with those guys. So I really appreciate them standing behind this initiative. And I just like to say, let's continue to spread neighborly love here in the city of Buffalo and beyond.
 Wow, thank you so much. And it's just refreshing to hear. And I think we are all dedicated to do that. I hope so, in one way or another. Thank you, Star. Appreciate you, man. Thank you. All right.
 I know that those who are watching, our meeting has started out with a lot of accolades, but there was a woman by the name of Thelka McCall who used to sign off her radio show, and she would say, it's nice to be nice. And so thank you to all the council members for just being nice to our constituents. Thank you.
 All right. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on May 25th, 2021 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda before us. And we know that we have at least one item, Majority Leader, that's coming out of the board.
 Yes, Mr. Chair, a motion to take item 20 from CD out of order. Second by Council Member Noah Kouska. Item 20, disposition of real property, 30 Bud Mill Drive. Motion to open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing. Second by Council Member Pullman. Public hearing. Is there anyone here to be heard on this item?
 Council President Scott Billman from the Urban Renewal Agency. Mr. Billman, Attorney Billman, you have the floor. Good afternoon Council Members. This item seeks permission to transfer a landlocked parcel located at 30 Budd Mill owned by the Urban Renewal Agency to EnviroWorld LLC
 The location of the parcel is in the Bailey Central Avenue, William Street area. It's commercially zoned. Like I said, it is landlocked, but EnviroWorld does own some of the contiguous parcels. And they're a Canadian company that distributes compost bins. And so I think they're going to use that as a warehouse location and a transportation location.
 The purchase price, we got a letter of value of approximately $5,500. The justification for the $2,000 purchase price is that the buyer is going to pick up all the closing costs and all the title work. And the title work includes, it's a railroad track, CSX track easement that runs right across this landlocked parcel. And it really has no value until December.
 someone negotiates with CSX and you remove that easement so it can be developed. So this buyer is going to take all that cost on. When you include all those costs that they're bearing, the difference between the valuation and the sales price, the valuation is going to be covered even more so by the cost that they're incurring. The Bureau Board approved this item, believe it or not, back in January 2020.
 right before everything kind of slowed down for everyone. And so now I think that it's a hopeful sign that EnviroWorld is ready to move forward with the transaction. And we're in a place where we can close this parcel, take it again off of the Bureau inventory, move it onto the tax rolls, consistent with what we've been doing over the last couple of years. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? The district council member, did you have anything you wanted to say on this?
 I did that we can motion to approve. Motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing, second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Councilmember Golombak. All right, from the top. Roll call. Councilmember Buhlmann. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. I'm sorry, he's having computer issues. He's trying to transfer over to the phone. So we'll come back. You can keep going. Councilmember Golombak. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. It passes and I'm not sure if Councilmember Freyletta was back with us yet on the phone.
 Yes. There's his yes. So just so the public knows, we do have several council members that are having some computer issues. So if you see them on and off, that is the reason. All right. Council Member Frioletto.
 Yeah, if I can just add, I signed into the meeting. I was live on Zoom, and then at 2.25, the Spectrum cable went out, and that's my internet, and I received a text message from Spectrum that they have a service outage here where I am in North Buffalo until 4.30, so that's why I'm not appearing live because of Spectrum's outage during the middle of the day.
 Well, I'm sure your constituents appreciate that update on Spectrum's outage. Thank you, Council Member, for your letter. Thank you. All right. Are we ready to go from the top? Thank you, Attorney Billman. Thank you, Council Members. Have a good afternoon. You also, from the top. Item number one, 8284-8890 Monroe Street, designated developer agreement, King Solomon Holiness Church.
 motion to send to CD second by council member wingle item number two report a sale 42 gatchel motion to approve um do we know what the move is going to be on three because then we could take two through four refer to the council member and wingle uh committee all right so we'll just deal with item two right now motion to approve uh second by council member nolakowski that's member Bowman yes council member Farrelletto yes
 Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Item number three, report of sale 192 Wakefield. We should go back to committee after do roll call for the previous motion for approval. So you just did it? Absolutely. Next item.
 Next item. Did we get a second on number three? No, you were finished reading it. Item number three, report of sale 192 Whitefields. Motion to go is going to CD, second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number four, report of sales 4-1. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bolleman. Councilmember Bolleman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Vellambac? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Item number 5, appoint general planner. Bring it up on the screen please. Motion to send items 5 and 6 to civil service. Second by Councilmember Colombo.
 Item 7, April 2021 cash flow report. Motion to send item 7A to finance. Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item 9, certificate of appointment. Motion to send to civil service. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 10, change order Broadway Market Sub. Motion to approve items 10 through 14. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrellotto. Yes.
 Yes. Council member Glambach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Item 15, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council member Wingo. Item 16, permission to hire TY Lin. Motion to approve items 16 through 22.
 Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Councilmember Buhlmann? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Galambach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Item 23, food store license 2183 Genesee. Motion to approve the legislation.
 Second by Councilmember Buhlmann. Item 24, Food Store License 776, Almod. Motion to approve items 24, 25 is in North District. I don't know if the council member would like to approve that as well. We can approve that as well, Mr. Rivera. Motion to approve items 24 through 29. Through 29, second by Councilmember Belumba. Councilmember Buhlmann. Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lytle.
 Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Item 30, Liquor License Notices. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 31, Certificates of Appointment, Temporary Provisional Permanent.
 Motion to send civil service items 31 and 32. Second by President Kotsenski. Item 33, appoint legislative aid. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Buhlmann. Item 34, assisting Jerry Daniels Jr. in removing vacant and abandoned homes on Carlton Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 35, common council meeting transcriptions. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member DeLonga.
 Item 36, American Rescue Plan Funding Concerns. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Mr. Chair, I may just- Councilmember Bowman, you have the floor. Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to mention that this item was submitted by the Urban Think Tank. It's really just talking about the stimulus funding that will be received and trying to have input.
 I just wanted to clarify that we're gonna have this item at our education committee next Tuesday at 11 a.m. Our intentions aren't to usurp any power. The council does not vote directly on this funding and how it's spent, but some members of the community had wanted to voice their input. We felt it was relevant to have this item
 on the Education Committee. So we accommodated everyone's schedule and we're gonna have it at the Education Committee meeting next Tuesday at 11. We expect the superintendent's office to be there. And we work in collaboration with them and they do attend our committees regularly. So looking forward to hearing more on this item. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Council Member. And I know we talked about it before the meeting and as soon as we got off, one of the news agencies called to ask, will we be adding,
 and I had to explain to them that by
 by law, this council cannot have oversight over the Board of Education's money and that what you were giving was the pulpit basically, at least for them to be heard and try to work together with the school board. But we do not, and I want to be clear, by law, New York State law does not allow this council to make the Board of Education do anything with their funding or anything else. That's why they have a school board, so this one.
 People to know that. Now, the money coming to the city is a different thing. All right. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 37, special use permit 74 Jones. Motion to send that to legislation for items 37 through 40. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 41, petition to repave Oshawa Ave. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Submission, civil service, item number one, appoint real estate maintenance manager. Motion is to receive and file items one through and including 17. Second by Council Member Revere, majority. Finance, item 18, public comment on recommended budget fiscal year 22. Oh, I'm sorry. Council Member Revere, can you call that one?
 a motion to receive and file items 18 and 19. Second by Council Member Golomba. Legislation, item 21, ordinance amendment, Article 20, budgeting. Motion is to approve. Second by majority. Hello. Hands up. Yeah, I can't see you. I only see four people. Council Member Wingo, you have the floor. Thank you. There was a motion. Do we second the motion already?
 Was it seconded, clerk? Is that right? I believe you started to say seconded by Rivera. Yes. Was it second, the motion to approve was second already? Yes. Can you record me in the negative only because amendments were made to this document as early as right before the meeting?
 And that's just not a lot of time to, you know, kind of consider such a very, very important. I know that my colleagues have put a lot of time and effort into this. I want to commend council members, Noah Kowski and Bowman and Rivera, for taking the time to meet with the comptroller's office to ensure that there was a document that they believed was feasible.
 However, because I got the most latest and recent document right before this meeting, even I got a document at 751 last night, I want to make sure that we are doing everything over. And because this isn't going to be put into effect until next year's fiscal year,
 Now, I don't know what the rush is for us to not get it right the first time. I was trying to make sure that we all were aware of that. But again, this is nothing against all of the work and the labor intensive research
 that my colleagues Mitch Nowakowski and Brian Bolleman put into this, and David Rivera put into this policy. But just because I just got the information, the most recent information, just right before this meeting, record me at the negative. So noted. This is Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. Council Member, is it okay for me to...
 I had a conversation a little bit earlier with Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Nowakowski, along with Councilmember Bowman and the Comptroller's Office have been working on this for quite a while now. They have put in a lot of work on it. I think up until most recently this morning and last night, we were all working on this. There have been additional edits.
 that has not made it into the final version that you're looking at right now. I know Councilmember O'Clingo mentioned one that he received last night, but up until this morning, edits were also being made. I have had a discussion with Councilmember Bowman, Norikowski, I'm sorry, prior to the meeting, and I think he did express some willingness to do something, although Dan Bowden wanted right away to tell him today, I would let him speak for himself, but just letting the council know that
 We have continued to work on it, but there have been additions that have been made on it and edits that have been made on it today.
 that is not currently before the council at this moment thank you thank you corporation council yeah there's you know since there's multiple sponsors mr chair on this you know i can't speak for my whole all of you know the sponsors on this uh as you know one councilmember didn't note that it doesn't go in effect till next year so other council members but including the ones that are sponsors um could also submit uh amendments to to fix
 anything that they can almost until next week. This document will not take effect until next year. Legislatively, how we move forward. I don't find any problems approving this document right now and in the sense of submitting future amendments next Tuesday, because this is how we can amend to move forward, but I would allow my other colleagues to speak. All right, Council Member Bolling.
 Thank you, Council President. Just kind of reiterate that. I totally understand, but this document, we held it up or had let it age. I believe this is the second time now. And there had been so much input, which was warranted on a document of this importance.
 really just wanting to get it right. So I fully understand my colleagues, thoughts on that council member Wingo and I am too open to a future amendments. You said, as you said, it doesn't go in effect until next year, but at this point, I think we've really dug deep and tried to include every agency
 I'm pretty proud of the document we have, but fully understand. So thank you. Thank you. All right. Roll call. Mr. Council members. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council President. I know this has been said before, but I also wanted to commend the most recent members of the council, Council Member Nowakowski and Council Member Bowman in particular for, you know, an issue that we've been facing for some time now and really dug down deep into this and it produced a wonderful piece of legislation. So I do want to commend them and thank them for all their hard work. Council Member Revere?
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Let me thank the Comptroller's Office as well. It was the Comptroller's Office that sent us their idea with regards to the fund balance policy. It was, I think it was first Comptroller was Schroeder, and then after that, Vanessa, who was acting in the capacity and
 Comptroller Barbara Miller Williams as well. We've met with the auditors, we've met with the administration, we've met with, I'm trying to think of almost governmental
 accounting standard people who advise us and what kind of language to use. We spent a lot of time back and forth and stayed in our lane, as I said yesterday. We understand the powers of the administration, the powers of the Comptroller's Office, and the powers of this body. And we try to work within that. As you said before, no document is perfect.
 We can amend, we can change, we can modify, we can improve. I think this document is good. It's gonna help us to work within a framework when it comes to budgeting. It's important that we work within a framework that tells us this is, we have to replenish our reserve fund. I think each one of us, whether it's in our personal capacity or other capacity that we have, we understand the need to have a reserve fund for different things that may occur unexpectedly.
 We have been fortunate in the past to have a reserve fund that we can use to kind of close budget gaps. But we don't have that any longer. So we have to get back to making sure that we have a reserve fund that we can leave to future council and future administration. So this is not just for this administration and this council. This is for future council members as well. So I want to commend.
 Brian Bowman and Mitch Nowakowski and the finance chair, Rasheed White. I don't, I want to give him credit for what he has done as well. And I want to thank all the council members for their support and Ulysses Wenglow as well. He sat in on one of our last meetings and we welcome his input. And certainly we want to make sure if he has any concerns, we can address those in the future. Thank you very much. Thank you. And this is a huge leap.
 and what many of our auditors have called for and down the line, of course, because it won't go into effect until next year, we find other things that need to be dusted off. I dotted or T crossed will make that happen. Council Member Wingo. Yes, I did forget to thank our comptroller, Comptroller Barbara Miller-Williams and Deputy Comptroller Delano Dowell
 for inviting me to the meeting to actually include this member of the Finance Committee. I would like to say I do appreciate that and they did listen. I watched and witnessed how both sides expressed their individual opinions and gave their input. And we came up with this document collectively.
 we coalesced around an end goal and this is the result. Only reason why I cannot vote for this document is because I don't think it's good government to put something into action that none of us, all of us have had the opportunity, have not had the opportunity to deliberate on and process. If that was the case with this principled approach, we might as well approve every document that we have in every committee and just amend it later.
 That's just not the approach I think that we want to take. But at the same time, this is a document, again, I did speak with the comptroller's office as late as today, who informed me that they are satisfied with this document. I can live with it. I just can't vote on it on the principle that all of the colleagues have not seen the most recent iteration of this document. Other than that, again, the sentiment of this talk right here was to ensure that I did in fact thank
 the comptroller's office for inviting this member of the finance committee to this common council to that meeting to ensure that we had a document that at least these two branches of government can agree on, thank you. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Glambach. He said yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes.
 Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? No. All right. Item passes. Item 22, special use permit 244 Allen for Tavern and N2C Zone. If Council Member Frioletto may be having phone problems. I'm sorry, Council President, I was on mute there. He asked me to fill in calling on these items. The motion is to approve with conditions items 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Council member Buhlmann? Yes. Council member Farrelletto? Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Item 24, special use 1893 Niagara Street for tavern and outdoor dining. This item is marked currently without recommendation. It is in the North District.
 We have, do we know what? Special use permit. Just, I think somebody's on mute. Yes. Can you hear me now? Yes. Okay. I'd like to send this one back to committee. There's a couple of smaller issues that we are working on in regards to it. So to recommit. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Golombak. And before you call off item 22,
 Do we know what the motion is going to be for 26? It's going to be a recommittal. Okay. Item 25, call. Item 25, special instrument 36, Laurel, for non-owner-occupied short-term rental. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Revere. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Ledda. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pritchett. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Item 26, Special Use Permit 1911 Seneca for Tobacco Establishment. Motion is to recommit. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item 27, Local Landmark 436 Amber Street. Motion is to approve Items 27 and 28. Second by Council Member, you know what, Council?
 Mr. President. Council Member DeLumbeck.
 Yeah, thank you very much. Just very briefly, both of these properties are owned by local residents, Mark Viniak and his sister. They have requested and worked with the community to get these historically designated. It was a pleasure to work with them. It took a little bit longer because there were a couple of little issues that crept up over the past few months. But I think this is a win-win.
 for the owners, for the Black Rock, Grant Amherst neighborhood. And if anybody is in the neighborhood, if they're stopping at Tops or Wegmans, just across the street in one of these two buildings is the Black Rock Historical Society. And you're more than welcome to stop in there and take a look at the history of Black Rock, Riverside, and the environment. I want to thank my colleagues for assisting in this matter as well.
 Thank you, Councilmember Golombek. I was having a conversation with Councilmember Nowakowski yesterday, and I said the one thing about Councilmember Golombek that you never have to guess on is about landmark and preservation. He has a record of 100%, and I picked up my phone and I told him, I said, if they say let's landmark this phone, Joseph Golombek Jr. is going to say yes. So thank you for your commitment to that. It's very important. Next item.
 resolutions item 42 move 193 way from waterfront to rail bed this item is open councilman yes thank you mr president uh you know uh being that my birthday is february 2nd groundhog day uh it's one of my favorite movies and this resolution harkens back to that movie if you remember in that movie uh bill murray ends up living the same day over and over and over again
 If you remember, I kept putting in after every school board election that this council would go on record to move the school board elections from May until November. And it was finally approved after, I think, 12 or 15 years. I can't remember the exact number.
 Well, deja vu all over again, as Yogi Berra would say. In the late 1950s, when cities across the country were being destroyed of the beautiful urban fabric and fiber, when the east side was being ripped apart, when part of the west side was being ripped apart, people sometimes forget that the Black Rock and Riverside neighborhoods, Riverside was called Riverside because...
 It was beside the river. Black Rock, of course, was the rock that was in the river, much more on our west side now. But over time, it sort of migrated into the Amherst Street neighborhood. Well, the horrendous thing that happened to my community at that time was that Washington, D.C., in their great forward thinking, decided that they were going to rip away our waterfront access.
 And they put a thruway to cut off our waterfront access. Riverside Park became Thruway Park for all intents and purposes. There's a great picture, and I was looking for it because I wanted to share it, but I can't find it. But it's from the old Riverside Review from around 1959. And there's six gentlemen wearing black carrying a coffin. And in the coffin, it says, Our Waterfront Access.
 So this horrible mistake was made in the late 1950s that ripped my community, ripped Buffalo, the northwest corner of Buffalo, away from the waterfront, which had been our vibrant history from the days of the neutrals and the Senecas and the French and the English and the colonial period and so on. And just like that, we were ripped away from it.
 Well, there's been a lot of talk about our waterfront in different parts of the city of Buffalo. And I must say that I get frustrated because sometimes it seems like we forget the forgotten waterfront, Black Rock and Riverside. I see that now there's some changing of heart in regards to the waterfront.
 Skyway and some other developments around the city of Buffalo. I would like to propose, and I would hope that my colleagues would vote for this, and I hate doing a late file. I very, very rarely
 do late files um but this is literally the exact same resolution that we've approved in the past um i think that this is timely to be in front of us to call on our representatives at the federal level um who have been generally supportive but i need more support in black rock riverside you know
 I want Congressman Brian Higgins to help us move this thruway.
 and roughly ending at Sheridan Drive. This would open up parts of the west side, Black Rock, Riverside, and the old town part of Tonawanda to the water, just like it had been opened up prior to 1959. Okay.
 You know, having this sent to our representatives at the state and the federal level, I would hope that they would very, very seriously consider supporting this and looking at moving that thruway. Yep, you know, the thruway is a convenience for me. I can get downtown in, you know, about 10 minutes from my house. I would much prefer to have waterfront access and an additional five minutes.
 to get downtown. It would completely change the complete sense of the Black Rock and Riverside neighborhood, and it would be like Back to the Future taking us back to Black Rock, taking us back to Riverside. So if hopefully this gets approved today, I want to thank my colleagues for being supportive, and as I mentioned before, Mr. Higgins, please tear down this throughway.
 Thank you, Councilmember Golombek. Thank you for the history. Did we get a motion to adopt? Pardon me? What's the motion? Would you like Councilmember Golombek? I think here in Gordon it would be an adoption. Yes. So motion to adopt. Yes, please. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Item 43, home rule request to pass Senate Bill S-5115. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 item 44 ordinance amendment chapter 261 lead paint hazard motion is sent to legislation second by council member noah kowski item 45 call for the property owners of 148 150 riley street to appear motion sent to cd um second by council member wingo on this item and we are researching on whether this is already in court we know that now uh the uh
 city court is starting to open back up. I'll tell you, I'm willing to do anything to get some of these property owners to
 In front of somebody. It is atrocious. Yesterday I spent time in the district again on South Hampton and on other streets and I mean, I do understand the public's frustration and I have heard people say, why isn't you know the council doing anything? Why isn't administration? Well, to be very honest, we are. But we're doing it within the confines of what we can. Inspections and then it goes to court.
 One of the biggest problems that we're experiencing, for instance, one house that I had put a slumlord sign up,
 Now the neighbors tell me that the person sold it allegedly to an LLC. So now we have no person. We have a corporate veil and, you know, a person can get four or five LLCs. So you end up almost never being able to really track them down until they get to court and then a lawyer shows up. And I just say, you know, that this is a shame. So.
 I am going to, we are going to research it, but we have to find ways to get these landlords, many of who do not live in the city of Buffalo. You've got an entire street of different streets. I think all of our districts have some, some area in,
 which there are people and they're still doing it to today, buying a property, changing it in people's names. Once the inspection service gets on them, changing it in LLCs. Once they get to court and it's, it's, it's a crying shame. Uh,
 And if I didn't think Facebook would bleep me out, I'd probably say some other words or take us down. So it's bad. And so that's why I'm now just trying anything I can. We did the slumlord signs. We are now saying, come before us. Because these are properties that don't have a gutter down. These are properties falling in.
 And nobody wants to live next to that. Nobody. And I've experienced it on Northampton where property owner from New York, I called a man over and over and over. Oh, I'm going to do this. No grass cut, nothing done. Thank God he just sold it to a neighbor and work is starting to be done. But I feel the frustration of our constituents, as I know every council member does. And so this is just another way of, we're going to test it and see if it works.
 So thank you. Next item. Item 46, Council Member Wyatt excused from meeting. Second by majority. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was about to make you the second. Second by Council Member Glumbeck. Item 47, home rule to pass Assembly 8026, Senate 7209, granting active retirement. Carrie O'Horn. This is a late file.
 Right. This is a late file, but we just asked for adoption and Councilmember Wingo is asked to be added to this resolution. Councilmember Wingo, I see your hand up. It was just an ad? Yep, just an ad.
 So this is thank you. And so this is the home rule that will go immediately to the assembly and to the Senate to hopefully begin the process of granting the retirement to carry a horn, as suggested by by the court, and this is needed.
 by our assembly and by our Senate. Um, I believe, um, assembly, uh, majority leaders, uh, crystal people. Stokes is carrying it in the assembly and Kennedy. Senator Kennedy is carrying it in the Senate. And as we know, we only have days. So thank you all, uh,
 for not objecting to late file so that we can get this to Albany immediately. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Chair, can you include me in that? I supported her being made whole way back before the decision came down. And I'm glad the decision came down in her favor. It's unfortunate she had to go through all those years.
 of having to live and survive without a pension, like everybody else. So I'm happy to see it. I hope she's made completely whole, and I congratulate her for that. Thank you. Thank you. Add Council Member Rivera to the home rule. All right, Council Member Winkle.
 Yeah, I wasn't going to comment on it, but Councilmember Rivera's comments just kind of prompted me to just say what I was going to say, which is it's unfortunate that she had to endure this hardship. But it's fortunate for everyone behind her. So now that these things, if it should ever happen again, there's going to be something in place that would ensure that justice comes to folks.
 behind her. So I'm happy for her on today. I'm happy for her should the state assembly and senate pass this home for us and sure that she gets her pension. Thank you. Absolutely. And our fingers are crossed and our prayers are there. We don't know what's going to happen on the other side, but at least this council is going on record to support that and send a homebrew message. So thank you all. Next item.
 Item 48, Ordinance Amendment Section 13-21. Motion to send to legislation. Motion to send to legislation, seconded by Council Member Wingo West. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to make sure that
 The community knows that I am in support of the right to know. Thank you, Council President Pridman, for actually drafting the legislation and presenting it. I asked if I could be a co-sponsor for this legislation and you conceded. So thank you, sir, for that. And to the community, we know that we have a lot more work to do. These are just the steps that we promised that we would take.
 since the reform agenda went to the governor. And we will continue in the work. We would not cease in the work. So just continue to be patient with us. Don't let your foot off the gas, so to speak. And we will continue to make sure that the people's business is done. Thank you.
 Only if you're in a school zone should you let your foot off the ground. Wait a minute. Now, wait. You brought that up. I didn't bring that up. If you're in a school zone, slow your behind down. Thank you very much. And look, I don't think all of the...
 You know, you made a comment earlier, Council President Pridgen, regarding the words that you wanted to use. I don't think that Facebook would censor us with all of the other things out there, Mr. President. I don't think they would censor. If somebody says, slow your ass down, I don't think nobody would censor it. But that's what we need to do. That's what the folks in the city of Buffalo need to do. We all need to slow down in every zone in the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. President. Okay.
 Okay, make sure you add Councilmember Wingo's name to that, to 48. All right, next item. Item 49, request for U.S.-Canadian border to be reopened. Motion to adopt items 49 and 50.
 motion to adopt 49 and 50. And I think council member Revere, did you ask to be on this? Yes, please. Yes, please add council member Revere. I know that we're not the federal government, we're not state government, but we are still government. And these borders are in, part of the border is in the city of Buffalo. And I think that we need to send a clear message out to those who will have to negotiate that the city of Buffalo's common council
 is supporting open the border back up. So thank you all. Item 51, Elmwood Square Apartments. Motion to approve items 51 and 52. Second by Council Member Golombak. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. He said yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Prichard. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes.
 Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Item 53, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 96, Bonds and Contracts, Living Wage. I'm sorry, which item was that? Oh, 53, Going to Ledge. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 54, Wave Event Fees for Music in the Park. Motion to approve Items 54, 55, 56, and 57. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council Member Vollman? Yes.
 Yes. Council member Ferreira? Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Ganlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Item 58, Commissioner of Deeds. It's to adopt second by Council Member Wingo. Item 59, supporting for the People Act. This item is open.
 Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We want to show our support for supporting the People Act, which consists of legislation that is currently in Congress that will open the door for
 sustainable progressive change on many fronts that will empower the people of this of this great country. Buffalo, if we should pass this resolution, will be one of the first municipalities to show their support for this sweeping legislation. So I'm hoping that we could all go and read H.R. 1 S. 1, the For the People Act so we can all show our support for this resolution to be sent.
 to Congressman Higgins and Senators Gillibrand and Senator Chuck Schumer. Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, thank you. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all. Item 60, waive fees for Juneteenth flag raising ceremony. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wilman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Glambach. Yes.
 Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. All righty. That's the last item in front of us, correct? Correct. Announcements, Ms. Wright? Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC.
 Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 15th, 2021 at 9.45 AM. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service at 10 AM. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 15th, 2021 at 1.00 PM. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 15th at 2.00 PM. Committee on Education, Tuesday, June 15th, 2021 at 11.00 AM. All right, thank you. Are there any announcements for district council members?
 Hearing or seeing no hands, Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second, Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Anyway, on June the 18th from 4 PM to 7 PM, Buffalo Collegiate will be sponsoring a vaccination drive.
 That will be over on Halbert and Leroy, right over by the CAO building. I am asking that everyone in the area, if you've not been able to get to somewhere close to you, if you live in the former Central Park community or neighborhood where the Central Park shopping plaza used to be,
 I'm asking that you just take the quick walk over, take the quick bike ride over, take the little short drive over and get vaccinated this month on the 18th.
 between the hours of four and 7 p.m. And again, this is Buffalo Collegiate. David Pawlowski is the head of schools there. And my wife and I will be there. And we're asking everyone in the community to please join us and get vaccinated on that day. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member Golomba, you're on mute, sir. Still on mute. I think you're with us. Nope. Still on mute.
 You're showing on Zoom that you are not.
 Now we can hear you. Okay. All right. Thank you, Mr. Wingo, for bringing up your comments in your district, because I forgot at about quarter to two, I got a phone call from the Northwest Buffalo Community Center that there is going to be another pop up vaccination center this Friday. We don't have the specific times yet, but it will be at the Northwest Buffalo Community Center on Lawn Avenue.
 I'm going to assume it's between roughly 9 and 4.
 This Friday, I still have a large number of people, especially new immigrants in the neighborhood. I've already been in touch with some of my Burmese community to let them know and to please get the message out there. Because I really would like to continue to boost up the numbers in my in my councilmanic district, especially in the one for 207. So if there is anyone that is in need of their first vaccination, please.
 This Friday at Northwest Buffalo Community Center, the state is doing a pop-up vaccination center. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I think some of some of our districts are competing with the scratch and backs and we get mimosa and get a glass of beer to get it. So the people are going over to some of those places. These places are in the community. And we encourage people to go to those community centers and go to those areas. Thank you all. I think we were on a second. Anybody else before I go
 All right, second by Councilmember Nowakowski that we adjourn. Thank you all, have a great day.