Sorry, count down. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombic. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Winkle. Present. Council member Wyatt. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. To the flag, the United States of America. to the Republic for which it stands, one and the same, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. I was supposed to have a guest invocator today, a long-time friend, a bishop. He was unable to make it. I think he just knew something about 13 flights of stairs that I didn't get the memo about, perhaps. The scripture I was going to use even before all of this happened, Psalm 127, second half of the first verse says, The watchman stand guard in vain unless the Lord watches over the city. The watchman, another translation says the sentries, another says the guards, stand guard in vain unless the Lord watches over the city. So you saw that today City Hall was guarded by those who respond quickly when things go badly. And regularly they have to run up steps that I'm not accustomed to doing. We've seen it happen over and over and over again. But in addition to those who guard this city, first responders, police, fire, EMTs and others, the Lord is the one that wants us to ask him to watch over our city. For many of you in your council districts and for others on first responders, they know that when school lets out and summer heats up, violence and a whole lot of things that accompanied heat up in this city as well. So on behalf of us in this chambers, I want to just reach out together today to ask the Lord to guard our city, to ask the Lord especially during these summer months to guard our city. Let's pray. Father, thank you for those who do guard our city. We thank you that you have established the order that brings that about. but father beyond and above that we ask that you would be the one who guards buffalo especially as we come into a summer season lord you know all that happens when school lets out and temperatures heat up so father i ask even now that our kids would be safe our young people and every part of the population base of this city guard watch over be the one whose caretaker we ask of our city And all of our citizens, and especially the next generation, wisdom now to these counselors as they gather in deliberation, I ask in your precious name. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmember Bruce-Memorials? All right. Seeing none, we always pray for those who have lost their life since our last session, especially pray for those in Ukraine and other places that are fighting for the freedoms of people all over this world. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you so much. We have a special presentation from Council Member Wingo. I would like to ask all of our Miss Niagara, Miss Buffalo team, Miss Niagara team, and Miss Buffalo to please join me here on council floor. Today we have with us all of our winners of the Miss pageants in both Niagara Falls and in Buffalo. And as you can see, I think the easiest part of their job is to be beautiful, because they are all so very beautiful. But what they have to display in order to earn these titles, I have come to appreciate because it was not until Ms. Buffalo Teen, Madison Wilson, invited my daughter to accompany her in Peekskill, New York. for the Miss New York State pageant that I realized how much work and effort actually goes in to these pageants. This is not just about being beautiful, although they're beautiful. It is about their intelligence, it's about their community service, and it's also about scholarship. All of these ladies have won and been awarded scholarships to continue their education so that they can be great and major contributors to society. And many Miss Niagara and Buffalo and Buffalo Teen and Niagara Teen pageant winners have gone on to do great things in their communities. And I am extremely lucky, I consider myself very blessed to be the pastor of Madison Wilson. Of course, the very, very beautiful young lady here in pink, who is a member of the Antioch Baptist Church. who, if I just began to tell you all of the things that she does in the community, we'd be here for half the council session. And that's how engaged each of these young ladies are. They are athletic, they are intelligent, and they are scholars. So if you would please join me in giving them a rousing round of applause for all of their accomplishments. Now, if we were at True Bethel, Bishop Pritchett would say, y'all can do better than that, so let's do that again, y'all. So today we are going to present them all with proclamations signed by all nine council members from the city of Buffalo because we want you to know that we appreciate your talent, we appreciate your time, and we also appreciate you sharing your treasures with all of western New York. Ms. Janna Reed, who is Ms. Niagara. Now, Ms. Reed can sing, y'all. I almost told her that she was going to have to sing the national anthem, but she says she's on voice rest. I don't know if that's a real thing, but we're going to let her have that one for today. Miss Buffalo team, Miss Madison Wilson. All right. Miss Niagara Outstanding team. All right. Miss Maya Isabella Samuel. All right. And last but certainly not least, The young lady who we all know because we see her on our television almost every day reporting with integrity. We appreciate you, we appreciate how you represent our community and we especially appreciate the fact that you represented so very well. And if I did not say this before, Madison was the first runner up to miss New York State team. I'm biased, I know. I think she should have won. But she came first runner-up, and our very own Ms. Chelsea Lavelle came first runner-up in Miss New York State. Ms. Chelsea? All right, let me move this out of the way so we can all take a big group picture. We need somebody to tell you what to do, so Chelsea, you're going to take this one. Great. Thank you all so much. We appreciate you being in chambers and staying later than normal. I guess they didn't have any, they did their exams this morning. Is this exam week? Is this exam week? So thank you. We'll give them a chance to exit and then begin. Are we going from the top? From the top. All right. From the top. Oh, nope, nope, nope, nope. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Council Member Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on May 30th, 2023 are approved. Council Members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections. I object to 45, Mr. President. Okay. 40 to 45. Is that in the regular agenda, the spot repair? Yes. Okay. All right. We won't hear that item. Be forced. Thank you. The motion is to... It's an objection to the light file. We can't. So it won't be heard on the agenda? It won't be heard. It'll be skipped. Spot repair, group 1074. Item number 1, 2024 capital budget and four-year capital improvement program. Motion to send to finance items 1 and 2. Second by Councilmember Norris. And 3. And 3. OK. You can't make a lot of noise in here today. No. You could call up and be thought it was somebody objected. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number four, amend report of sale 62 Eureka. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number five, amend report of sale portion of 143 Rodney. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number six, 2023-2024 annual action plan. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Temskema. Item number seven, designated developer extension for Butler Group Enterprises. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. item number eight dda for elbert's landscape service motion to send the cd second by council ramuendo item number nine member additions to our in public places committee move Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Columbeck. Item number 10, report is so 473 Adams and portion of 469 Adams. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 11, report is so portion of 124 Detroit. Motion to approve items 11 and 12. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 13, report is so 87 French. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 87 French we actually are denying because the grounds have not been maintained and the vacant lot cannot be used for parking cars for the city which they tried to use this for. And then the owner has several building codes that are not in compliance. All right, state it for the record. Item number 14, report a sale portion of 457 Goodyear. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 15, report a sale 65 Kane. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 16, report a sale 46 Coons. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 17, report a sale 84, 86, and 88 Laurel. Motion to send the CD, items 17 and 18. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 19, report is still 254 Stevens. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor? Thank you, we are denying this because the individual who owns the property, who is applying to purchase the vacant land next door, does not live in Buffalo and has not kept up with the property that they currently own and has major violations. The steps are falling off, the railing is no good. There are no grounds being kept there. The property is currently in eyesore. So the last inspection report from 2002, the owner actually needed a roof replacement. And drainage inspections needed to go out and provide all of the violations to them. And they did that, so because they can't keep up with the current property, we're not going to give them the vacant lot next door. Stated for the record. Item number 20, report is a 139 suite. Motion to approve items 20 through 22. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 23, submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 24, City of Buffalo April 2023 cash flow report. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 25, certificate of necessity for transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file items 25 through 30. Second by council member for your loan. Wait a minute. It should be 25 through 28. 25 through 28. All right, correction on the motion. Motion stands 25 through 28. And number 29, enter fund loan requests. Motion to approve items 29 and 30. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 31, proposed agreement with Catalyst Consulting Group for new CRM. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Public Works. Item number 32, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 33, change order for Buffalo Fire Department roof replacement. Motion to approve items 33 through 44. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Police, item number 46, DOCS MOU for SAVE program. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 47, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fierlito. Item number 48, approval to accept donation from Broadview FCU. Motion to approve items 48 and 49. Second by Council Member Golombek. If we could just pause for one second. All right, I'm sorry, I just wanted to check on this one. Item number 50, Corporation Council, Aaron Curtin, 37,500. Motion to send to the Claims Committee, items 50 through 60. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 61, food store license, 3323 Bailey Avenue. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Item number 62, food store license 2215 Fillmore. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. 2215 Fillmore in Madison District. They currently own another food store and they're requesting approval to expand the building. But they have not finished the expansion and they don't have the money to complete the expansion. So they're applying for something that they can't complete. So he does have to have the upper apartments and lower apartments completely done by the licensed contractors. Now, they obtained the permits, but the individual doing the work didn't have the licenses. Also, you can't transfer as current license to operate out of the 2215 location to the 2215 location So they'll have to apply for a new application with which this is But because of all of these impediments that they face trying to get the property renovated and running out of money We're having it to deny stated for the record Item number 63, food store license 479 Genesee. Motion is sent to legislation item 63 and 64. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 65, property manager. Motion to approve item 65 and 67. Second by Councilmember Fiorello. Item number 68, HRNC. C, technical solutions contract. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 69, appoint personnel specialists. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. City Clerk, item number 70, liquor license notice for 1368 Hurdle. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 71, appoint associate management analysts. Motion to send civil service items 71 and 72. Second by Council Member Golombic. Miscellaneous, item number 73, affordable housing task. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 74. Fruitbelt Community Land Trust rent increased concerns. Motion to send the CD items 74 and 75. Second by Council Member Bowman. And on this, if the Chairman of CD opens this in the next meeting, just want folks, especially in Fruitbelt, to be aware that it may be discussed. What we got was correspondence that this land trust that this council supported has raised the rents. on the folks who were in there who were supposed to be affordable until they got their mortgages. So some of them have been, I'm sorry. So some of them have, I think, almost doubled the rent. and got a notification. So normally I wouldn't bring this before the council, but because the council is the one who gave, got the land, you know, agreed to the land being transferred, I don't want to see the organization that's supposed to keep the rents down double the rents by a letter while they're trying to get their mortgages. So I just want to make sure that those folks who are living on the land trust know that the council is paying attention. Thank you. Item number 76, Buffalo Water Board Public Hearing Notice. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Buengo. Item number 77, New York University Robert F. Wagner School of Public Service. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 78, Western New York Medical Scholarship Fund. Motion to send finance item 78 and 79. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 80, inquiry regarding the absence of coolant centers in the University District during recent blizzards. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Golombi. Petitions. Item number 81, co-mainline event for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to send the legislation. These are the ones we're approving. Yeah, we can approve. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 82, special use 2531 Delaware. Motion sent to Legislation City Planning Board items 82 through 86. Second by Council Member, President Pro Temp Scandler. Submission list, civil service, item number one, Appoint Assistant Corporation, council three. Motion is to receive and file items one, two, and three. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Finance, item number four, certificate of necessity. Motion to deny items four and five. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number six, transfer of funds for Buffalo Fire Vehicle Repairs. Motion to approve items six and seven. Second by Councilmember- I'm in the negative on seven. I'm sorry, I didn't have my mic on. I'll take that back, take that back. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Golumbik in the negative on number seven. Councilmember Scanlon in the negative on number seven. And Bowman. And Bowman. Next item. Your mic is off now. Item number eight, research and plan to upgrade city vehicles to electric. Items eight through ten. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Community development, item number 11, regarding closure and partial abandonment of portion of South Park Avenue right away. Mitch. uh i would like to just speak on this item that's why i left it without wreck until the end mr chair mr president over um but i did meet uh one thing i could count on two of my colleagues for is their love for bike lanes and pedestrian and bicycle safety um so uh due to their encouragement and but as well as mine i was able to meet with the nfta on south park to talk about the encroachment permit and they were able to provide me and their engineers were able to provide me plans um all the way up until this morning to make sure that uh and ensure that south park will remain um uh be able to to safely move cyclists all the way to canal side it's about 150 feet where they're going to get creative and use other techniques to be able to accomplish it but also you know just to put it in the approving motion that that they are committed to maintaining that and have come up with a lot of different techniques to be able to safely do that so i will make a motion to approve excellent second by council member wingo Item number 12, report of cell 1111, Lovejoy. Motion to recommit. Second by the Lovejoy Councilmember Bowman. Item number 13, Allocate Park Town Homes Community Partners. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 14, concerns hazardous condition 190 Stevens Avenue. Motion to receive and file 14 through and including 18. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Legislation item number 19 chicken license 297 Eden Street. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 20 letter from Central Terminal Neighborhood Association. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 21 co-migrant event application for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve items 21 through 24, 25 with conditions, 26, 27 with conditions, And 28 and 29. And 21 will be as amended to one of the dates is 630, 23 and it should be 629. Second by Council Member Golombak. Item number 30, zone and map amendment for 20 are in place from an N3R to an N3E. Motion to recommit. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 31, establish a lower Black Rock historic district. Motion to approve with conditions that Councilmember Golombek has had conversations about. Councilmember Golombek, would you like the floor? Yes, thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Chair. I spoke to Corporation Council Gordon and we are going to Prove this as is except for 1942 Niagara Street, we are saving the property. But if saving the property means that it needs to be moved, that would be something that we would be willing to allow. Okay, made sure I said it properly. Thank you, I want to thank Corporation Council, I want to thank the developers and the residents from the historic Black Rock neighborhood for working on this for the past several months. Thank you, I'm sorry, it was shattering my head, in my ear. Can I get a second on it? Can you get a second on it? Oh, a second motion, like can you make a motion for a second? Council Member Wingo is offering the second. Item number 32, Hooster, License 1245 East Ellabem. Motion to approve items 32 and 33 with conditions. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item 34, Co-Mingling Event Permit 75, West Chippewa. Motion to receive and file items 34 through 37. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 38, Special Use Permit 531, Fillmore. This item was sent to council without a recommendation, so it's in the Fillmore District. I'm not sure. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. President, there's another one I'd just like to explain as well. So I will be approving with conditions. So the Central Terminal Neighborhood Association sat down, brokered a deal between this store. So I would like to reference some of the conditions, and I'll work with the clerk to do that, that's stated in item 20, 15. in legislation, but 23-866. So I'll be taking some of those conditions that were approved by the block club that the council can actually have oversight on and take some of them to put it in the approving with conditions motion on that item. Thank you, Mr. President. You got it. But there's a block club Monday. One of the closing two hours. Be open until 1 p.m. Item 39, new second hand dealer 919 Kizziton Avenue. Motion to recommit items 39 through 42. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 43, AMR response to request for data. Motion to receive and file items 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Bowman. Resolutions item number 87, waive fees for eight days of hope. Items 87, 88 second by council member Bowman and I'm number 89 Commissioner deeds public duties motion to adopt second by councilmember no Akoska and a number 90 request for authorization to temporarily close Chicago Street motion to approve items 90 and 92 next slide I just need a second on the motion that was made by comes from the no Akoska thank you Item number 93, excuse Councilmember White from June 13, 2023 council meeting. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Fairlotto. Item number 94, fee waiver for Jefferson Avenue Friday Night Live. Motion to approve items 94 through 100. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 101, support for the Buffalo Initiative Medical Scholarship. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to education. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 102, transfer funds for Buffalo Police Department. Motion to approve items 102 through 105. Second by Council Member Bowman. We have an item that we're going to come back to in which for 311 that was being sent to finance. I just want to be transparent, so that's why I stopped. Motion to revisit item 31. Second by Council Member Golombek. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Fierlotto. Do you want to revisit the item number seven in finance? All right, so the what we are revisiting and I just said publicly because I think that is so important is the item of the salaries so that the school board Salary it needed an amendment of what the recommendation was So we can revisit motion is to revisit that item second by councilman for a little motion is now to approve as amended and amended with the school board salaries second by councilmember wingo and we know to count councilmember column back Scanlon and Bowman in the negative the record just the amount to 28,000 you have the written amendment correct we have the written amendment All right, so that goes to what was it? $28,000. $28,000. Goes to $28,000. Just for transparency for Buffalo schools. And I should have said, for Councilmember Wyatt, he couldn't be here during the memorials. The matriarch of his family passed, and he drove to North Carolina and tried to get back here. And about two hours ago as he was trying to get back, it would have taken him three hours, I told him, we'll be fine. So just so you all know. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, June 20th, 2023 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance file on civil service is Tuesday, June 20th, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on community development is Tuesday, June 20th, 2023 at 1 PM. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, June 20th, 2023 at 2 PM. Committee on claims is Wednesday, June 21st, 2023 at 1 PM. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Any parades? Any Juneteenth? Any breakfast, lunch, dinner? Council Member Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr.? Thank you, Council President Darius DeBron Pridgen. I appreciate the opportunity to speak and address the public. Just to announce that we are having our annual Juneteenth celebration this coming weekend of Saturday and Sunday. Please come out and share with us in our parade as we march and celebrate all of the greatness of black folks in this America, all of the greatness of Africans in America when we were notified last that we were finally liberated in Texas. So, family, please come out and share with us. If you are not part of the parade, you can't be at this point, but just stand by the sidelines and look on the wave. And if you are part of the parade, please be on time. I don't know when that staging time is. I have to look at my calendar, but you can always call my office and let us know. But please come out and have a great time celebrating beautiful, royal blackness. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Councilmember Golombet. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to just take this moment to wish Central Staff Intern Paul Polian Jr. good luck, today was his last day. He's graduating from City Honors in a week, week and a half. But he is a old friend of the family, his family is. I forgot that I believe I attended Bard, his parents wedding many years ago. And so it was great when he was looking for some place to do an internship. And he and grandma and his parents approached me and I said, yeah, we'll figure out something. My office was a little bit too small to have Six people I think we would have had in there. And so central staff said, gee, he's got a great resume. We'd like to have him here with us and it's worked out really, really well. And I just want to give him a proclamation honoring him for his time that he has been here. And this is Paul who worked behind the scenes and did a lot of work for all of us and especially for me and Norm. I've got to keep these guys packed up, thank you. Council member, I was getting ready to object to the late file to late. Motion to drink second by council member Brian J Bowman.