Councilmember Fontana. Present. Councilmember Franczak. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Councilmember Rivera. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. Quorum present. Let's stand for the pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for the sake of it, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. A scripture that we're more used to hearing at Christmastime from Luke chapter 2, the last section about signs of hope and life. Interesting enough, in Luke chapter 2, verse 10, the angel says, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Of course, it's the story of the birth of the Christ God, the power of good news. So when I got here today, one of you council members here good news with me. My heart in that part celebrated. We're a city that's oftentimes been known for bad news. I've got friends that when good things happen say to me, just wait, the next shoe will drop. That's not an expectation of good news. I want to suggest to you that there's incredible expectation of good news here and now. And tell you a quick story. that seems to me like it fits with D-Day, if you've been watching the coverage as I did over the last several days and then glued to the screen as they've explained the cost of freedom that's occurred. One of my seminary professors told the true story of a POW camp in Germany. There were British barracks, there were American barracks, and no communication allowed in the barbed wire that separated them except one time a day at noon, the chaplain for me was able to meet to exchange news briefly at that common barbed wire fence that ran through the middle of the camp. One of the U.S. Air Force guys that was shot down managed to smuggle from the wreck a transistor radio, and that meant the Americans were able to listen at that transistor radio and hear outside news, which the Brits could hear. And one day they heard on that transistor radio that the war was over. And you can imagine the celebration that happened, but there's still guards in the towers, there's still dogs surrounding them, and in the midst of all of that, it didn't feel like the war was over, even though the announcement had been made. Obviously nobody had told those that, ma'am, they can't. But that day at noon, when the two chaplains met, at the middle of the thing, and the American chaplain whispered to his British colleague, the war is over. They said that when that British chaplain went back to the barracks and shared, you heard the shout come from the barracks, because the good news trumped what the reality around them all seemed to hear. And they said three days later, when they woke up in the morning and the guard towers were empty and all the Germans had left, There was a celebration of freedom, but they said in reality, freedom came the day they found out they were free. That's a powerful statement. The Bible says, you'll know the truth, it will set you free. So today I want it to be a day when there's freedom and good news that you can celebrate and broadcast in the city. Let's pray. Thank you for good news, not just from the scripture that we often use at Christmas, but good news that you want to give us. I thank you for the good news that came today when I got here. But I thank you more than that, that in the past we've done bad news so often that we became almost numb. and expectations lowered. I pray, Father, even now that good news is going to become a norm here. In each of the nine council districts, I ask for good news. I ask for good, changing, transforming news in our district. I pray a blessing now in this session. I pray it would be marked by the hard work that's been done behind the scenes. to make this city better thank you for your powerful presence in your name amen Thank you, Mr. President. Maria Riggler, long-time Riverside resident, along with her husband, Louis, who passed away a year ago. They were immigrants to the United States when immigrants were welcome. They had come here after the 1956 Hungarian failed uprising against communism. She will be very very sorely missed by her family Jim Dagenhart passed away Jim was a former. I can't remember what the exact title was It was the equivalent of the captain at D district Inspector, I think that's what it was in the 90s in early 2000s And he was the inspector there his father They were former Riverside residents his dad lived in Riverside until he passed away a few years ago And he was a former commissioner of police But Jim had been retired and he had been living down in Florida with his family. We also lost Tony Fante. Some of you would know Tony. Tony worked for the City of Buffalo. I believe he was a bingo inspector for many, many years. He was active on the west side of Buffalo. uh... he was a good guy who was an electrician and he was notorious for not charging enough i remember he did some work for us on several occasions and we had to fight with them because it was probably a five hundred dollar job it's not going to be two hundred and it was like jeez you know It's not fair for you. But he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. And last but certainly not least, Vincent the barber. Vince was a barbershop owner in Riverside, my goodness, I think since the late 1950s. And I think of what's the program, the barbershop program about the black kids that are at the barbershop. And I always laughed when I watched that because that was every neighborhood. The barbershops were like that. And Vince had sort of the old guys, Larry, who I went to, were young guys who are now the old guys. But Vince was in his early 90s and he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. He was so lonely. His wife, Connie, had passed away 11 years ago. And he always said, he goes, I'm not afraid to die because I'm looking forward to seeing my wife. So he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. And just one last thing. When my dad was sick 12 years ago, Vince would call me at least once a week to check on my dad. And, you know, I mean, just a good guy. And these are all individuals that will be very, very sorely missed in the city and in their neighborhoods. I think you're talking about the movie Barbershop. Yes. Yeah. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you. I'd ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family and friends of Mr. Terry Spencer, who we lost at just 46 years of age. Terry is the brother of Pat Curry, who we all know, and the son of Donna Curry, who's an extremely engaged citizen in the South District. He's leaving behind his wife, Suzanne, and three children, Elizabeth, Matthew, and Andrew. And although he did not live here the past 24 years, he never severed those ties with Buffalo, and in particular, South Buffalo. But he's going to be terribly missed by his family and friends. And also, if we could please keep in our thoughts and our prayers, the family of Michael Lang, who we lost. at just 26 years of age. He is the son of Steven and Kathy Lang, and he leaves behind also brother Steven and daughter, I'm sorry, sister Lizzie. And although he was only 26 years of age, every time you bumped into him, he always had a smile on his face and a word of encouragement for everyone. So he's going to be terribly missed by his family. And for those who have given their life for our country, the freedom of our country, and the freedom of people around the world who may have given their life since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you so much. We have a special presentation by the Madison District Councilmember, Ulysses O. Wingle, Sr. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to call on the Alzheimer's Association of Western New York. And your colleagues can come as well. You can come. I have a wonderful color of purple, one of my daughter's favorite colors. Your name is Awareness Month, All Brain Awareness Month. We thought it would be fitting to recognize the great and the very, very hard work that the Alzheimer's Association of Western New York, which is a leading voluntary organization that helps with care, we really believe that the work that they do is invaluable. I have personally witnessed the care that they do. And I feel that it's very important that we recognize those folks who are the impetus behind that great work that they do in the community. I have a problem to make. As Joan mentioned, Alzheimer's and Brain Awareness Month is awareness for those living with Alzheimer's disease and their caregivers. The Alzheimer's Association is an organization that serves all of western New York who now incorporates the grant project We fear that individuals from the underserved community with Alzheimer's disease understands and recognizes the need to address the needs of the community. We support the public and invitees to engage the oral community. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia, which is a progressive disease that worsens gradually over time and... and physical impairment. Currently, there is, whereas currently there is no cure for this disease, but treatment is available as research continues. Today, Alzheimer's disease is at the forefront of biomedical research, with researchers working diligently to gain understanding on how Alzheimer's affects the brain. We are hopeful that this research provides a breakthrough of understanding that will lead to new treatments and eventually a cure. Whereas the mission of Alzheimer's Association of Western New York is to promote and create awareness of the latest and leading research regarding the disease while providing care and support to those affected. And now, where therefore we, the members of the City of Buffalo Common Council, hereby offer our support. caregivers affected by Alzheimer's disease and applaud the efforts of the Alzheimer's Association of Western New York as the leading voluntary health organization in Alzheimer's care, support, and research. Now this is just a small token of our appreciation. Just this thing here is acknowledging the fact that you all are engaged in some very, very important and very, very impactful work. And we need folks like you to continue to do the work that you do voluntarily even in the community until the rest of us what real love looks like. And I just want to tell you all, thank you for the work that you've done, and thank you for the work that you're doing, and continue to do to help those people because of this disease. And I'll give it over to... Wow, thank you so much for this. There's currently 5.8 million Americans living with this disease today. 400,000 of those are living in New York. That's a lot of people affected by this disease. We're very thankful to you for your support. We're out in the city of Buffalo every single day meeting with caregivers, meeting with families to try to combat this disease. So we are very appreciative and thankful for all of your support here today. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Very good. on a motion by mr revere second by mrs scanlon the minutes of stated meeting held on may 28 2019 are approved council members you have late files before you have any objections to any of the late files before you there are no objections we will hear the entire agenda now taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had a chance to review one of the items from the top i don't want to point jesse ketchum board of directors motion to receive and file Second by Councilmember White. Item 2, appointment. Commissioner of Assessment and Taxation. Motion is now to approve. Mr. Chairman, in caucus we had initially sent this to Civil Service. Since then, some councilmembers have met with the commissioner, and their concerns have been satisfied. So now motion is to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Next item. Item number 3, appointment. Member of BMHA Board. Second by Councilmember White. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item 4, 2019-2020 Annual Action Plan. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Fairletter. Item 5, Report of Sale, 360 Dearborn. Motion to approve items 6 through 7. Second by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Item number five is the sale of a property in the old historic Black Rock section of my district. And what I wanted to mention is that when I first became council member, every year we had houses that were simply left to Habitat for Humanity. I would get phone calls from people that I knew that lived in the neighborhood once upon a time. And they said that, and I know in a couple of cases, they had somebody that had Alzheimer's that got put into a home that was sick, that passed away. And the children would call me and say, look, who can we donate this to? And so I would work out a deal where they would go through... habitat. Really in the past 10 years with the neighborhoods turning around and including places like Black Rock Riverside, the housing values have gone up in value and that's caused less people, actually I can't remember the last time I received a call to the office asking for assistance in making a donation of a house. on debts because of that it also changed the way that the city of buffalo deals with organizations like habitat as well on so what i'd like to say is i'm very very happy that we're doing item number five i'm happy to have habitat back into the neighborhood on and it's bittersweet to say that the reason that they haven't been there for a while is because the improvement in the neighborhood and habitat was not able to get these properties. I want to thank the mayor and Brendan Mahaffey for their assistance on this. That's good. I don't know if there, if we pause the meeting for a minute, if you have guests who are here to see you this morning and want to take a lot of pictures and bring you flowers and balloons. So if so, I will pause the meeting to swear you in. That's your whole department there, so nobody better call for tax information. So why don't we take the time to do that? Thank you. Mr. President, I guess somebody should say something. I had an opportunity to meet with Jason. I wish him well. You know, you have some pretty big shoes to fill. I see Mr. Kennedy there. You have a fantastic staff. I know you talked about some things that you want to do to work in collaboratively, so I wish you well. You have a great team, and I hope that you wish you all the success. And also, Mr. President, I just want to acknowledge everybody from the departments here today, all very professional. I see Brian and Moses and everybody. Everyone's here today to do. They can never go out of their way enough to help you when you have a problem with assessments. And as commissioner now, Jason will have a great team behind him. I agree with the council. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I've actually, I've known the new commissioner for around 20 years now, and I can tell you, since taking my spot here in the Common Council, I've seen him in a different light, in a different arena, and to watch him work with Public Works and see the things he's done and how dedicated he is to his craft, it's been wonderful to see. So he's going to be an incredible contributor and addition to that department. Well, how... outgoing, but you're already out now. That means it's a great moment and a great photo hour for you. I don't have a Bible, so we're gonna just have you pray this command. And we will be by Jesus' will, to solemnly swear that I will support the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the best fit and acting of the city of Buffalo, according to the best of my knowledge. That's what I'm saying. The new commissioner says don't make me cry. I won't. I already said it. I just am really grateful to thank you, Mr. President, for the moment, to give me a moment to say thank you to you, the comptroller, and the mayor for getting together to make this point. And I think that this is a very important decision, and I know that I feel in my heart that Jay will do a wonderful job and a great staff that will work with you and I couldn't be more happy. Thank you very much. Well I'm glad we did that. I would have had the whole taxation department upset with me. Nobody wants to make the Office of Taxation mad. Good stuff. I just wanted to obviously thank everybody for the support. Very humbling, honored to take this position. Trust me, I can only do best for you as I would do in any position. I guarantee that. I'm dedicated in anything I do, but having a dedicated staff, start established, they do a great job on their own. So I feel very honored to be going in that position. You know, I'm very humbled by your support. I look forward to working with you. Thank you, Mr. President. Next item. Item 8, report of sale, 297 LaPierre. Motion to approve items 8 through 15. Second by Councilmember Delumbe. Item 16, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 17, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 18, 1770 Hurdle Avenue. Motion to approve items 18 through 27. Second by Councilmember Franza. Through 27, what's that? Item 27. Item 28, appoint pumping plant operator. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Pro-Jump Scanlon. Item 29, permission to accept 2018 Buffalo Project Safe Neighborhoods grant. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 30, appoint systems coordinator. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 31, authorization to accept grant. Motion to approve items 31 through... 32. 33. Second by Council Member Friar-Little. Item 34, food store license 639 Broadway. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 35, food store license 1199 Seneca. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 36, food store license 530 William. Motion to send legislation item 36 through 39. Second by Council Member Friar-Little. Item 40, sidewalk cafe Tapo Pizza. Motion to approve items 40 through... 44. Second by Councilmember Galumba. Item 45, police obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 46, enter into agreement between Workforce Corporation Erie County and Minister Mayer's Summer Youth Program. Motion to approve. second by council member Wyatt 46 and 47 second by council member Wyatt item 48 appoint inclusionary compliance officer motion to receive and file second by council member Wyatt item 49 legislative management software assignment and assumption agreement motion to approve say my council member fair letter item 50 item return to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval motion to receive and file items 50 and 51. second by council member wingo item 52 notice of permanent temporary provisional permanent Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Ferencz. Miscellaneous items, item 53, citizens campaign for the environment. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 54, proposed amendment to chapter 78, animals. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Golombi. Item 55, new procedure of handling of tax delinquent properties. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 56, Monthly City Hall Incident Report. Motion to receive and file items 56 and 57. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Petitions, item 58, use 405, Rhode Island. Motion to send the legislation and city planning board items 58 through 63 saying my president pro-cho Committee civil service item 1 a point experimenter motion to approve item Saying about a majority leader right and three no so appointment temporary provisional permanent receiving file Finance committee item for controls assessment of recommended 2019 2020 budget Motion to receive a file and my customer wide and in fact control this budget response motion to adapt I uh second by council member wingu community development committee item six sale of 201 aliquot street uh mr president is this your district yes we can prove motion to approve second by council member fear little legislation committee item 7 use 3053 main street item originally came without recommendation motion is to recommit second by council member fronten i made use 44 brayton 8, 9, and 10, 11, and 12. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 13, used car dealer 534 Colvin. That originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve 13 and also 14. Second by Council Member Frielo. Item 15, request for moratorium on Michigan Avenue. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 16, local item for number 3, amending Article 24. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 17, Michigan-Sitmar Historic District Expansion. Motion to approve items 17 and 18. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item 19, Seeking Cooperative Review. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Revere. Item 20, zoning map amendment 625 Fillmore. Motion to deny with cause. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 21, investigating Shinda property management. That's up to the pleasure of the Council President. That's a receiving file, sir. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombi. Police Oversight Committee, item 22, body warrant camera policy. Motion to receive and file items 22 through 28. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. And if I could just say, and I said it at police oversight, but I do want to say it here in our meeting. Earlier today there was a police oversight committee meeting chaired by the chair, Council Member Rivera. And I don't know if I've seen as much cooperation. with a committee and a department from the city as I saw today and how they have been working constantly with the police department. Police department have been working with them to really come up with some solutions, policy, the discussion on policy was wonderful. I said this a few weeks ago. I don't think because people differ on something that that makes them bad or that they're the enemy. Working together we got great policy. The city of Buffalo now has cameras, body cams that are rolling out. Less lethal enforcement i don't know if you call it a weapon i guess or um the tasers uh on the way um this that that's a really good thing and i think that people in the city they may miss that because we don't talk about that a lot about the cooperation that we haven't seen sometime in the past uh and how having a the commissioner actually Send people to work with them so that they're not here bashing the police and the police aren't angry at the public But working together. I thought that that was very important board meeting councilman friends. Thank you Mr.. President the risk of beating some of the general observations from this morning I never saw a citizen appointed committee. I think this is like the best I committee that our Commission whatever it's officially called citizens group that the council ever appointed on just about anything because we had done an appointment of a police citizens group some years ago it didn't work out at all and among other appointees to various committees that we needed help on and they have done such a thorough job such an excellent job that I said did you get any financial support for these reports because they're done in such a professional manner and the co-chair was talking about using students from UB who did an excellent job of research, put together very thoughtful reports. Now, the police department and the citizens police commission are a part on certain things, you know, the body cameras. The police don't want to... reveal those tapes as a matter of course, as a matter of right. They want to put restrictions on it. The committee doesn't agree with that, but it was a respectful disagreement. Issues on residency were brought up, which I'm a firm 100% believer on, with the police contract, with the tasers. The main issue is with the body cameras today. And I think that the work of this commission should continue. They should continue that same level of research and commitment, and then somewhere between what the police say and what they say, there has to be something of these two disparate, not disparate, but different, kind of approaches the cameras that will be done that will even more benefit the public. I agree. And when you brought up about the money, I'll talk to them afterwards about giving them a little discretionary money out of my discretionary because they're paying for paper and paying for those type of things. So if anybody else has $2 you want to donate to that, please feel free. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. i certainly want to thank the administration whose support on many of the things that we have accomplished was critical so in terms of budgetary um putting money in the budget for the different things that we requested thanks to the administration thanks to yourself and this common council for putting the advisory board together so they can meet in between meetings to deal with many of the issues and problems And I think because of all the tension that was going on throughout the country, it was even more important that we do this. And we have seen so many things come out of that advisory committee and the police oversight, whether it's phasers, whether it's cameras, whether it's de-escalation, whether it's money for training, the accreditation. All of those things came because people that met in these chambers were pushing for it. or even low-level offenses, what to do with low-level offenses that had a disproportionate effect on the minority community in particular. So I think we're very sensitive to that. We've given them an audience where they can come, and sometimes we take the shots, and that's fine. That's part of the process. So I just want to thank the Common Council for being patient, for putting this advisory group together, and I hope that going forward that we can continue to do many of the great things that we're doing. Absolutely. Great job, Mr. Chair. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President, and I want to concur with those comments, especially in the light of the Netflix video that you saw when they see us. You know, you know how important this really is for us to work together before massive incidents occur. The cooperation that we see, the mutual respect, you know, we can differ and disagree, but we ain't got to be disagreeable. And this committee and working with the police department, and again, I commended Commissioner Lockwood for his work. efforts and really engage in the community. You know, sometimes, you know, we don't get credit for anything. People don't want to give you credit, say, hey, you high five, but he's persistent. It ain't perfect, but the bottom line is he does it and we continue to work together because there's a lot of things going on across the country. they're not necessarily going on here and we could be thankful because we have leadership in government that works hand in hand with the community to address issues before we get to those tensions contentious situations that may occur that we hope never occur but i think those relationships can keep a lid on it instead of us having this explosion thank you good thank you next item resolutions Item 64, Wayfie's Associated Zoning Amendment 461, Hinman. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. These are a couple of items I think that we've all had in our district. These are problems that when the Green Code was amended, there were some properties that were inadvertently changed from residential to commercial, commercial to residential, et cetera. And... We've all run into one or two of these, and quite honestly, it's amazing that there's only been as few as we've found so far. But it's put all of us, the clerk's office, the council, and the city in sort of a bad position, and it's put the people who have to change this back in an even worse position. We want to do something to help them without... causing them to have to pay a fee because for something that was not their fault. I want to thank Karen Gordon, Tim Ball, and the law department because they've been working with me and other council members to try to come up with something that would make this quick and as painless as possible. That's why this item is going to committee so that we'll be able to continue to work on it and hopefully come up with some sort of a uh a game plan for the handful of properties that have fallen into this position thank you sir and we talked about it yesterday and the fact that it's 400 part of it is to pay for the advertising and uh but i think that and i've directed council staff to put in a resolution to look at that because there may be a better way to inform the public without the public having to pay with all of these changes, so it would possibly mean a change in our charter so that how we advertise. Right. And the one concern that I had is that because this was accidental, you know, I don't want, you know, I think that there should be a way to fix this without, you know, I don't want to sound like I'm against transparency, But this was a mistake, and it was made a couple of years ago, and all we're doing is rectifying that. So, I mean, I believe that, you know, it's not even necessary for there to be a public hearing, you know, and that's something that we're working on, you know, with the law department, because all we're doing is rectifying because we didn't have a public hearing to change it from a residential to a commercial or vice versa. Thank you. Next item. 165, weight fees associated zoning amendment 441, Hinman. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. 166, investigation of predatory booting. Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And for the record, for those who are watching, I believe with the permission of the district council member, because it is actually in my district, but it affects the whole city. Lightning towing has been asked to come before this council. According to our charter or according to our regulations, no more than $75 can be charged. They are charging right now, seemingly, whatever they want to. And we have the records to prove that they are charging $9,000, no receipts, cash on demand, no regulations. So Corporation Council, along with, we are very pleased to have an intern from Harvard working on this who's in the chambers. and who will be with Corporation Council during the summer. This will be one of his projects to get done, hopefully a law in front of us within the next two weeks. But this investigation will occur because I think that when people in the city of Buffalo, you know, they're breaking the law, period, and we have information that they may have not been properly licensed. So we'll do what we do to protect the citizens of our city. And what's the interim's name? Andrew Case from Harvard and he wanted to do work in government and he is here as an intern. So if he comes by your offices, you know who Mr. Case is now. Thanks. Next item. Item 67, waive fees for OLC, Karpis Christi. Motion to approve item 67 through 69. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item 70, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt item 70 and 71. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Mr. Chairman, motion to revisit item 38. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item is before us. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Motion to rescind the previous motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 18th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, Committee following Civil Service. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 18th, 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 18th, 2 p.m. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. There will not be a stakeholders meeting for the Madison District residents for this month because we are celebrating Juneteenth. of course, which is the month that we celebrate the liberation of Africans in America, and the fact that the word had gotten to the last enslaved peoples in Texas. So we are looking forward to celebrating on June the 15th and June 16th. So everyone, anyone, please come on out and see what great things that we're going to be doing in the Mastin District along Genesee, all the way up Fillmore Avenue, all of the great vendors, all of the Afrocentric folks that will be out in their great colors. I even got me some new socks, Mr. President, to make sure that everything is on. But, yeah, Afrocentric socks. I think they're very, very nice with the Quinte prints and everything. So it's going to be a great, great celebration of some of the great things that we've done here in America as it relates to liberation and equality and equity for all people. So the Juneteenth celebration is one of the largest celebrations in Buffalo, and it just happens to also be one of the largest celebrations of that type in the country, in the entire United States of America. so as you know i come out to us all about because it's it's it's it's it's going to be one of the best according to the leadership of Mr. Brown with the Juneteenth Corporation, we are looking for everyone to come out and enjoy and engage in this wonderful parade slash cultural event. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member Franzen. Thank you. Yeah, Juneteenth, it's right on the border of Fillmore and Mastin. So a lot of it's part of it's Fillmore. Then as you get to the park, Martin Luther King Park, it's Mastin. And so I always greatly enjoy going to the parade and uh... there's so many people It's so colorful and flags and floats. And then my main thing is I like to walk and look for different food. I like to look for the food, and I usually end up bringing quite a bit home. Sometimes my wife joins me. One year I bought her a dress and kind of like a bracelet. It's just a great festival, and the weather has almost always been good. I can't remember really bad weather. I don't know what they're predicting for Saturday, but it's going to be great regardless. I know we've had a lot of rain this year, but I... I'm very optimistic the weather will be great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else want to claim Juneteenth in their district? It's only five miles away from South. I'll be there. You had a float last year. You had a float. So, and anybody, any of you council members who don't have a float, you're welcome to float on my float. But you've got to be in African attire. That's the only requirement. I'm sure you all have a lot of African attire in your closet. Council Member Wyatt? I will be participating on my own float. Oh, okay. Not in African attire. Okay. But this is, it always comes right after the University United Festival, which we had a grand festival this past Saturday. Hopefully the weather can be as nice as that event. So look forward to participating. You did a great job with the University Fest Act. people from all districts. I almost got a chance to call them all off before we had to call up another act. But it was people there from all districts, and I think it was wonderful. Yeah, and the people kept talking about this wig that they saw. You had this wig there. Don't invite that guy back. Any other announcements, council members? All right, thank you. Motion? Motion to adjourn. Say goodbye, Council Member White. We adjourn.