Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franczak. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. I stand for the pledge of the United States of America and the United States of America, for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 and returning from Pentecost together. And now Warner will come. Indeed. And it was a sensational night, Friday night at Pentecost together. I bring you greetings from thousands and thousands of believers from all over the region, pastors in your districts that participated, and way beyond that throughout western New York, came together. Bishop Anderson, Bishop Sanders, Bishop Tommy Reed, Bishop...
 Pastor Alberto Alonzo, lots of folks would have come and opened us in prayer. And we're going to start with a song. A great bridge in this part of the evening. It was a powerful night. We took up an offering. I'll be interested to see how much it brought in. And that will go to bless inner city ministry as part of the give back. Psalm 133, God says that we are brothers united.
 and people of faith dwell together, that He blesses and commands the blessing. I feel as though we're living in such a time as that and that Buffalo is experiencing that. We've never come together across the kinds of barriers that we're coming together across right now. The same is true of this council. You're coming together across amazing barriers.
 To rule as pastors of the people, as the creed above us reminds us, the ceiling over us reminds us, for the good of the people. What is it?
 Believers gathered on Friday, I want to continue their prayer together as we bow together today. Father, thank you for people of faith who came together on Friday night in a historic way at Pentecost together. Thank you for the blessing that you've commanded as we do that, as we lay down barriers and pick up the things that hold us together in common. And Father, tons of prayers went up from the Key Bank Center on Friday night. I apply those prayers now in these chambers.
 I thank you, Father, for those believers that prayed and believed for great things to come together from that night. And now, Lord, we declare that today in this session that, Lord, you will speak. Those that are gathered will be able to hear and recognize your voice. Thank you for guidance. You said that you're the shepherd who guides the people. And I pray even today, do it as never before. Thank you for your powerful presence in your name.
 Thank you, Chaplain. Councilmember, any memos? Councilmember DeLombe? Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock Riverside Food Pantry North District area lost a wonderful, wonderful volunteer and worker, Mary Busowski. Her maiden name was Mack. She was the sister of Father Bob Mack, who passed away a couple of years ago, who had been very, very active in the Riverside and Black Rock neighborhoods.
 Mary was born in Riverside. They're an old Riverside Black Rock family. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, especially Ted, and also the people at the food pantry in Black Rock and Riverside. One of the behind-the-scenes people that, you know, people sometimes think that things happen by magic. Well, Mary was the person that was behind the scenes, you know, in her 80s.
 filling up the bags, putting them on the ledge, the people would have their names on them and they would be able to pick them up. And you hate to say this, but it's every time we lose one of these people, it's, you know, they're irreplaceable. Not just as individuals, but as volunteers in the neighborhood as well. We also lost George A. Vossler. Thank you.
 One of the founders of the Conservative Party in the 1960s. Back in the day when you could actually disagree with one another in politics without hating one another. I would hope that maybe there's a way that we can get back to those days when we can disagree with one another but without the anger and the hatred that we so often have. But he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. Thank you. Any other council members?
 Councilman Thompson. We saw it on the news last week. There was a tragic accident on Bailey Avenue. A gentleman was hit as he tried to cross Bailey near current. And his name was Mr. Arthur Redbrick. Arthur is a 60-year-old resident of the Lovejoy District. His family hails from Hagen Street. Real nice gentleman. He had some vision problems.
 And on the news last night, I saw it, and I just didn't want to see what I saw. But he really tried to avoid that car. I think he heard a car was coming, and he just got into the middle of the road and just didn't get it out of the way in time. And the driver of that car, a white Ford Edge, was driving too fast along a bay lead to avoid potentially texting at the time, not paying attention, because it was plain as day that there was a person in the street.
 hits the person and runs away cowardly and just doesn't do what's right for the individual that he just hit and killed on the street. So to the family, there's a large family here that have lost a brother. Mr. Redrick, a good man, and he's hopefully today in his honor we say the meeting is done.
 Caring no others, we always remember our men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country, freedom of others. Since our last meeting, we pause for a moment. Thank you. The motion by Mr. Revere is seconded by the scantily-demanded sub-state meeting held on May 30th, where approved.
 Late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to object to late files as they come before you if you have not had time to review them from the top.
 Item 1, extend designated developer of various items in Monroe Labs. Motion to send the CD items 1 and 2. Seconded by Council Member Golumba. Item 3, report of sale 346 Mastin, 141 Glenwood. Motion to approve items 3 and 4. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 5, finance for special use permit 1900 Hurdle. Motion to receive and file item 5.
 7. Seconded by Councilmember Freyland. Animate and appoint real property appraiser. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Department of Public Works item 9, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Frenzat. Item 10, change in contract city hall improvements project. Motion to approve items 10 through 30. Thank you.
 Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 31, drug acid forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Protun. Item 32, appoint motor equipment maintenance supervisor Wong. Motion to send to civil service item 32 and 33. Second by Councilmember Glumba. Item 34, food store license 285 grand. Motion to approve items 34, 35, and 36. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 37, food store license 1678 hurdle. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Councilmember White. Item 34.
 38 who's got license 127 skillet motion to provide us 38 and 39 so my customer for the item for a used car dealer 1640 Bailey ocean center ledge second my customer friends at item 41 used car dealer 2028 Niagara motion to approve take my customers go I'm 42 used car dealer 637 tip motion sets of legislation to my customer with the moment
 From the City Clerk, Item 43, items returned to City Clerk by Mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file Items 43 and 44. Seconded by Council Member DeLumbre, Item 45, notice of appointment, Council in turn. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member White, Item 46, notice of appointment, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Miscellaneous Items, Item 47, illegal activity at 78 Sherman Street. Motion to send to CD and Police Oversight.
 Second by Council Member Glumman, item 48, Central Staff Task List. Motion to send items 48 and 49. Motion is to receive and file items 48 and 49. Second by Council Member Frenzik. And I've asked Council staff to file this at every meeting. It just keeps up what we've asked other departments to do so it doesn't get lost in the sauce.
 So this will be a list that will be changed as things are answered to this council and then as individual council members ask for things so that we can make sure we keep track of it.
 Next item. Item 50, cities for CEDAW initiative. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Prozano. Item 51, code violations 71, press board. Motion to receive and file consent to economic development permits and inspections. Second by Councilman Freeland. Petitions. Item 52, use 290, Kenmore.
 Motion is to send to the City Planning Board items 52 through 55. I second my council member. Committees. Civil Service. Item 1 appoints Civilian School Crossing Guard. Motion to receive in five.
 Second by Council Member Fontaine. Finance Committee, Item 2, Request Public Hearing, Citywide Property Revaluation. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item 3, Current Base Proportions, 2017 Roll. 3, 4, 5, there's no objections. Motion now to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Community Development Committee, Item 6, Approve LDA for True Community Development Card.
 Motion to approve items 6 and 7. And I'd like to recuse from 6, although I have absolutely no financial gain on this. I think it's important to keep an arm's length relationship. So I recuse or second by Council Member Fontana and approval by Council Member Lingo. Item 8, speeding vehicles on East Depew Avenue.
 Motion to receive and file 8 and 9. Second by the Council Member for Delaware. Legislation Committee, Item 10, use 1140 Delaware. There are no objections. Motion to approve Items 10, 11, and 12. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 13, Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 96-19, Living Wage Ordinance. Motion to recommit. Second by the Majority Leader. Police Oversight Committee, Item 14, Audit and Report on Overtime in the Police Department. Police Oversight.
 Motion? I think this one, this is the one where we're supposed to, is this the one we adopted discharge and the receiving fund? No, no, that's the other one. Okay, so this one is a receiving fund. Thank you. Resolutions, item 56, City of Buffalo endorsed zoo for CFA grant.
 Resolution. Oh, resolution. We went right through. Motion to adopt. I go by majority leader. Item 57, fee waiver Hennepin Park Field Day. Motion to approve. I go by Councilor Higgins. Item 58, endorsing Seneca Babcock Community Association's application. Motion to adopt. Items 58 and 59. I go by Councilor Fafner. Item 60, fee waiver for Candlelight Memorial.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 61, amend UDO zoning map. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 62, approval to endorse naval and military park and CFA process. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 63, fee waiver for 14207 day. Motion to approve items 63 and 64. Second by Council Member Belongbren. Item 65, fee waiver for pop park event. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I go by Cosmo Wingo. Motion to approve. Oh, sorry. By Cosmo Wingo. Item 66, discharge item from police oversight. Motion to adopt the discharge item.
 second by council member delambert motion now is to receive and file second by council member delambert item 67 waiver of fees for west side community services motion to approve second by council member franzak item 68 commissioner deeds public duties motion to adopt item 68 and 69 second by council member wyatt announcement of committee meetings committee on civil service tuesday june 20th 9 45 a.m committee on finance following civil service
 Committee on money and development, Tuesday, June 20th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, June 20th, 2 p.m. Any announcements? Councilmember, Councilmember Franczak, then Councilmember Wingo. Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
 I would like to, and we'd all like to invite all to this Saturday on the east side of Buffalo, the Juneteenth parade and events is happening this Saturday. The parade kicks off at noon. I always have a great time at Juneteenth. The parade really starts at the McDonald's in Genesee and goes all the way to Martin Luther King Park going west.
 And there's just a huge number of floats and people that are marching in the parade and bands and classic cars. I love the classic cars. And then all the vendors. There's a tremendous number of vendors. And I usually, I can't eat when I go there, everything. But what I'll do is I'll take a bag and I'll take a lot of stuff home. So my wife and I have a...
 A lot of stuff stacked up for a couple of days because the food is so good. It's just a, you know, it's a great time of the year. The weather is usually great. I think it's going to be good on Saturday commemorating, you know, freedom many years ago from bondage of slavery in the African-American community. But everybody should come to Juneteenth, not just people on the East Side. Everybody should come and see what a great celebration it is starting this Saturday and then it continues on Sunday. Thank you.
 Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. I have nothing to say. Once. It's over. Council Member Franzag was so very eloquently made the announcement regarding the Juneteenth for us.
 But we do have one announcement. There will be no stakeholders meeting because of the Juneteenth. We would like everyone to come out and participate in the Juneteenth, as Council Member Franczak had already explained. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to say that Council Member Wyatt had a wonderful event in the University District this week.
 I know some of the council members were able to get through it. And if you were driving past, you really couldn't get through. There were so many cars and so many people. And not only was there a concert, but there was an area for children with the big, huge slide and merry-go-rounds and just a really, really great event. You know, we hear a lot about Canal Side and what goes on there. What was really encouraging.
 was to see something that big that was held right in the University District. And I thought that it just showed so well for what neighborhoods are able to do when people come together. So, congratulations.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for coming out and my colleagues who attended. It was a wonderful event, but I really want to thank council staff. I can't say enough. These guys came. They were there early in the morning. They stayed. I think Clayton probably spent the night. And Mr. Thomas, he was there late taking pictures. Verney, everyone did a wonderful job in supporting this event. The community truly appreciated it. And I appreciated that they felt
 empowered that this was in their community. It made me feel good to see people walking from Rotary Field to their homes up the street, you know, the Highgate and Windspeeder. You know, it made me feel good that we had something in our community. But thank you for everyone's support. Mr. Rivera, he knows, thank you for your support. It was huge. In the final hours, and thank the University of Buffalo for participating and KeyBank, our sponsor. Thank you. Okay. It was somebody else. Mr. Golombek. Council Member Golombek.
 Thank you, Mr. President. June 17th also we have our Discover Amherst Days in the Black Rock, Grant Amherst neighborhood of the North District. This goes back, I forget, the 18th I think this is, a celebration. It started as Rediscover Amherst Days because some of you might remember going back about 15 or so years ago, three of the four first murders in the new year were in that Grant Amherst neighborhood.
 And, you know, we did a lot of work out there, knocking on doors, talking to people, and getting the block club, the business associations active. And this was one of the things that indirectly came out of this. The residents and the business association were already doing this, but we showcase our businesses along Amherst Street. In the one year, it was really cool. The kids from Our Lady of Black Rock School actually borrowed shopping carts from Topps and Wegmans, and they decorated them for the parade.
 And there were hundreds, well, it was probably like dozens, but it seemed like hundreds of shopping carts in this parade. And as hokey as it sounds, it was the funniest thing because you have moms and dads and grandparents who are plotting the little ones, pushing the carts. Some of them were pushing their friends in the carts. And it was just really, really well done. So if anybody's free and they're up in that northwest corner of...
 Buffalo, the parade is at 12 o'clock. I'll be the master of ceremonies over at the old firehouse at Amherst near Grant. Great.
 No good announcements. I had to mention my staff. Let me take, I forgot about them and I shouldn't because they worked so hard and you know, they Sandra and Doris and Taisha and Brea worked so hard. I mean, I don't think I've ever been to a parade that started on time. Our parade started on time. It was a few minutes late because the mayor was running in, but everybody was in place.
 And I'm not trying to throw the mirror into the bus, but he was there. But, you know, when you have staffs that work that hard, you want to acknowledge them and appreciate them. And they know that they're truly appreciated. I gave them two days off because they had been working Friday night, Saturday night. They didn't get home probably 10, 11 o'clock Saturday. So, again, I want to acknowledge them and thank them for the hard work. It really means a lot to me. Thank you. You're a pretty tough boss. I think they worked about four days' worth. You gave them two days off. I mean, goodness. Wow.
 Good job. And, yeah, the mayor did it though. All right. Anything else? All right. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.