for the city record, Zyra Wilson, Yasiel, did I say that right, close enough? I have the spelling so we'll . Mikel Milam and Nijon Kearney. And they can come right there and have you help them where they are. They can help us lead the play. That's right. I have another one.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 in the contract and then miss drew if you could come down to this one recognize that we have students from buffalo public school here today i thought it was so important for them to come see their city hall learn about how government works meet their leaders because these are our future leaders of buffalo our next generation
 We just wanted to recognize them. Do we have some, as we said with the names, well, first we wanna say, we wanna thank her for putting this all together. She did a great job. She had our students submit what was important to them. So it was really fun to read the priorities of our next generation. So Ms. Truitt, thank you so much for putting this together. We have Zaire Wilson.
 Zierl Wilson right next to me. Oh yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna butch room. I'll do my best everyone. Yaziel, how do you say your last name? Yaziel. You say it, you say it. Yasiel. There you go. Congratulations. Thank you for coming. Mikel Milan. Close. Nywan Kearney right here. Great job. Thank you everyone.
 When Jim reached out to me a few minutes ago about the moments of silence that we'll be doing in a short time, I was reminded of a verse in Revelation chapter 8 verse 1 that talks about a time of silence in heaven. Depending on the church tradition you go to, there may be a lot of silence in your churches, or it may be a fairly noisy kind of time. Different traditions have that differently manifest. But heaven is never quiet.
 It's, there's no time but if it were it's 24 seven prayer and praise and worship and angels and seraphims and all kinds of activity that happened in heaven but there's one recorded time when it goes silent. Revelation eight one when he opened the seventh seal. There was silence in heaven for about half an hour. Far as we know that's the only time period where there was no noise whatsoever.
 This part of the book of Revelation is talking about tremendous calamities coming on earth. And in the midst of such horrific circumstances, heaven goes quiet. It seems to me that there's sacredness in silence, sacredness and quiet. We do moments of silence here at the council in every open session, but this is a whole city gathering. I know the mayor and others will be gathering at
 But I want you to know that God notices our silence and is in heaven silence for about half an hour for us, a shorter period of time. But during that time, may we reflect on the calamity, but also on the presence of God, the Father, to everyone who is in desperate need of his presence right now. Bow with me in prayer. Would you, Father, even a month later, there are no words to express.
 the horrific evil of last month. As I look around among the council members, I've been with most of them at prayer vigils throughout the city in the last several weeks. And Lord, it's been agonizing and murderous deaths that took place. And in the midst of our calamity, which is different, of course, than the book of Revelation, but in that series of calamities, heaven went silent. And Father, today we will as well.
 Lord, would you invade our silence and speak deep into our minds and spirits today? For those who lead this city, I pray that there'd be direction in the midst of everything that makes it hard to navigate the storm of the century that's in our midst. Lord, the silence is us being silent. But Lord, would heaven talk and speak? And would we have ears to hear and listen?
 Obey and do your will, we pray in your son's name. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members, any more? Council member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Like to ask the city of Buffalo to keep in prayer, the family of Marlon Keith who lost his mom,
 just recently. And I just want to hope that he smiles because he took very good care of his mom. He's always posting pictures of him and his brother having dinner or just spending time with his mom. So he took very good care of her until the end. So my prayers are with him. And then I also want to send prayers out to the family of Gloria Quay. She was trying to attend the festival this weekend. And she was trying to attend the festival this weekend. And she was trying to
 And she may have had some health conditions. I'm not totally sure, but she got on the festival grounds and had an emergency. So we're praying for that family. She lived on Minnesota Avenue, but you know, people wanted to get out and whatever the situation was, she wanted to be out. So we're praying for her family during this time.
 Council Member Golomba. Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside neighborhood lost a member of a very, very large and old family from the neighborhood, Chuck Urtel. He passed away after a long illness, leaving behind his wife, Helen, his sons, Chuck and Ray. He's gonna be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends.
 And then also Fred Frecos, the father of John Frecos from Black Rock. Fred was a former DPW worker. He was about 86, 87 years old. He had a great life. The last few months were pretty rough for him. John did everything that he could to take care of him, but Fred is gonna be very sorely missed by his son, his daughter, and his family and friends in the Black Rock neighborhood.
 Another, Councilman Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I just want to enter in the name of Jennifer Baker and that is the daughter of our city court judge, Diane Ray. Hearing none of those, we always remember those who may have given their life for the freedom of our country or any other country on this earth. Since our last meeting, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil. Chair Greg Musil.
 hearing no objections it does not take away your right to pause the meeting as we go through it to review any item from the top item number one amended council budget amendments for 2022-2023 motion to approve second by council member fairloon item number two approved subrecipient agreement for bmha motion motion to send the finance second by council member nowakowski item number three 887 michigan street
 Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 4, DDA extension for 422 and 426, William. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. I apologize. There is an item we need to take out of order. Item 83. Which item is it? Item 83.
 Motion to take item 83 out of order, seconded by Council Member Fairlose. What page is it? It's the last, page 10. All right. Item number 83, discharge item 22-525 from legislation committee. Motion to adopt the discharge. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number five, designated developer agreement for mid-area mental health services. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number six, reported so 18 Brighton.
 Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number seven, report of sale, 154 Keystone. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number eight, report of sale, 294 Lopierre. Motion to approve items eight, nine, and 10. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 11, report of sale, 560 Walden. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 12, report of sale, 661 Walden. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 13, reported so portion of 58 Emerson. Motion to send the CD items 13 and 14. So my council member Wingo. Item number 15, reported so portion of 239 Strauss. Motion to approve. Second by council member Fairland. Item number 16, submission of monthly report for May 2022. Motion to receive and file. By President Pro Tempskin. Item number 17, audit on police department wireless device utilization.
 Motion to send to finance item 17 through and including 21. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 22, reapportionment plan. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 23, appoint clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 24, first extension agreement for City of Buffalo and governmentjobs.com.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Item number 25, amend change order for Engine 25 General Construction. Motion to approve items 25 through 46. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 47, appoint Park Supervisor Provisional. Motion to send to Civil Service items 47 and 48. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Police item number 49, approval to accept hat donations for New Era Cap Foundation. Motion to approve items 49 through 51. Say my council member Wingo. Fire item number 52, certificate of appointment fire captain.
 Motion to send the civil service items 52 through 58. Second by council member Feraletto. Item number 59, Fuster License 797 Broadway. Motion to send the legislation items 59, 60, 61, and 62. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 63, Loudoun House 1942 South Park. I'll defer to the South District Council Member. Item 63. Can you send the committee please?
 Motion to send to light. Second by council, the present pro temp scan. Item number 64, purchase of auction and scrap of vehicles. Motion to approve item 64 through 67. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 68, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file item 68 and 69. Second by council member Columbus. Item number 70, a point tire mechanic permanent.
 Motion to send the civil service item 70 and 71. Second by Council Member Colombo. Item number 72, BFSA May 22 revenue transfers. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Petitions item number 73, special use 1472 hurdle for Tavern.
 Motion is sent to legislation city planning board item 73, 74, and 75. Second by council member Noah Kost. Item number 76, petition to stop OPL city installation Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by council member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, for the opportunity.
 I'm appreciative to the University District Black Club Coalition regarding this petition, regarding this Oik Boyd Treatment Center that is being placed in their neighborhood without any approval from them or any input from them. We sent a letter, my office sent a letter to our assemblywoman and our state senator asking for their assistance overturning this.
 I had a meeting a couple of weeks ago where there was a great groundswell of folks who came out in opposition against this center and the issues as they relate to other centers in our city that aren't good. We have enough issues in the university district, especially in this plaza. We don't need to add to it. This center is being proposed to bring people from the Seneca Nation into the city of Buffalo for treatment and then take on them back.
 and then it opened it up for additional people. We've been told that there's a backlog of need for people in our community, but never have been given the information showing that. And so people question the motive. Again, I appreciate this community standing up and standing strong for what they don't want. We have enough issues. So again, thank you to the University of Chicago Black Club Coalition. Look forward to continuing the fight.
 We will have future meetings very, very soon. We don't want to let this fall off the radar because at the end of the day, our neighborhoods are already dealing with a lot of issues. And this is one thing that they don't need. So thank you. I just had a question. You said there'd be, people will be bused in and then taken back out? Yes. That's interesting. So they'll be bringing them from Salamanca and then they'll take them back when they receive their treatment.
 There's several other exits before they get to Buffalo that they can stop off and do this, but this process is flawed. And as I understand it from the Majority Leader's office, because they have sovereignty,
 they have some abilities to do things and have things done more quickly because they have that sovereignty. But that sovereignty doesn't give you sovereignty over the people in that neighborhood. So we need to address this issue. And I appreciate my colleagues supporting it. Thank you. Absolutely.
 Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint truck driver permanent. Motion to approve item number one. Second by the majority leader, Rivera. Item number two, appoint account clerk typist permanent. Motion is to receive and file items two through and including four. Second by council member, Bowman. Finance, item number five, African-American veterans memorial. Motion to approve items number five and six. Second by the majority leader.
 Community Development, item number seven, report is still 33 Molar. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number eight, renaming the Delavan-Grider Community Center. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number nine, Special Use 81 Abbott. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by President Pro Temp Scantling. Item number 10, Supplemental Info Special Use 104 Lane. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Noah Kouska. Item number 11, special use 97, aka 99 Rodney. Motion to approve items 11 through 14. Second by Councilmember Wyeth. Item number 15, local landmark 1274 West Avenue. Motion to deny. Second by Councilmember Golumbik and the reason for denial. I'm sorry, Councilmember Rivera. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to read the reason into the record. Thank you, sir. The proposed
 landmark of 1274 West Avenue is grounded in the applicant's fear of demolition and not on the property's purported distinguishing architecture features as stated in the application. The act to designate a property, a landmark in the city of Buffalo is a discretionary authority given only to the common council as stated in chapter 33337-12 of the city code.
 The common council may approve or disapprove the designation of proposed landmark landmark site or site or historic district and shut set for its specific reasons for approval or disapproval. 00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00,00
 has pledged to rehabilitate the property and maintain historic features, the council feels that there is no reason to impose a landmark status on this property. For those that were familiar or aware of the public hearing, the gentleman came before us and he informed us that once he pulled the permit, that they began the application process fearing the demolition of the property.
 He felt bullied was his word. During the conversation, it was disclosed to us that he wasn't even notified. And according to them, they weren't obligated to notify him, which I find that problematic in itself. Not making someone aware that we're going to landmark your property, property that you bought, that you own.
 um instead of working with them proactively to talk to him is one of the reasons i have a problem with this they should have reached out to the gentleman he has agreed to rehabilitate that house in this containing the same features that the house had originally so based on that i am going to deny this landmark application i normally vote lockstep with preservation community on many things
 But I have a problem when they're not being proactive in terms of reaching out to people who want to maintain the property. So he has agreed to do all the things that they ask with the exception of the landmark. So with that, I deny this and I'll make sure that you receive a copy of this. Thank you for that statement for the record. Education item number 16, prioritizing local candidates as superintendent. Motion to receive and file item 16 through and including 22.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Resolutions, item number 77, budget and salary ordinance. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 78, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt item 78 and 79. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 80, Irish festival fee waiver. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Noe. Item number 81, active shooter training. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item number 82, ordinance amendment chapter 316, peddling and soliciting article 11, mobile business.
 Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. What this is, and Councilmember Golumbik had started a portion of this, I'd started a portion of it after we did the food trucks. Right now, the only mobile vehicles that have to be licensed are food trucks.
 And we have all of these new businesses, thank God, that have started as a result of the pandemic that are mobile businesses. And so this is the ordinance that would include mobile businesses. And we've had a table for a while. So I wanna thank corporation council because we knew come summer, they'll have more mobile business out there. And what this does is makes the plan feel fair.
 Because if you've got a truck and you're selling widgets, you shouldn't be able to park outside of a widget store that's selling the same thing. So essentially, if I'm correct and you correct me, I'm OK being corrected. It essentially does the same thing for mobile businesses as we have done for food trucks.
 Is it the same price also? Corporation Council? Assistant Corp Council, Karen Gordon. No, I think the price is different. I can't recall from the top of my head what the numbers are right now, but the pricing is a little bit different, but not that much. So that's what this one is. It is now, we will be at 2.30 in just a second. So we'll just pause our agenda and then I'll announce when we're at 2.30.
 Thank you. Next item. Item number 8. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, thank you for this provision here for the mobile businesses. As I sat here and listened to those bells ring, I was going to say this before we had the moment of silence. But as I sat here and listened to the bells ring, there are a lot of people who have taken advantage
 of this moment in time in the city of Buffalo to saturate the east side with services and other things that they would not have ordinarily come to this side of the city with. As much as I appreciated the thoughts and actions of people who wanted to bring services to the east side of the city of Buffalo, there was quite a bit of ambivalence as well, Mr. President, because
 If it hadn't been for that hate crime, we wouldn't have been on their mind. That hurts. So today, right on time, there is a provision for us to ensure that we are curtailing certain actions of business-minded people to exploit the pain of a community and market to a broken community under the guise of wanting to help. This here is...
 is absolutely necessary. I know Chase didn't mean any harm, but it hurt to see this huge monstrosity of an ATM machine, this mobile ATM machine on the right of way at our library. I know other businesses that I won't name don't mean any harm, but it hurts that it takes for 10 people to lose their lives, for our community to get needed services. This may look like a small measure to some people, but this ordinance here is absolutely necessary.
 Because the last thing I want, and I'm sure any of us on this floor wants, is to feel as though if you only did this because of that, and that we're only good enough for you to respond to us when there's a hate crime. And I'm talking about Black folks. And I'm talking about this capitalistic society that we live in, that we were intentionally disenfranchised from. Now all of a sudden, we have all of this action, have all of these resources coming. This may seem to some people like a small ordinance, a small gesture,
 but it is absolutely necessary. I thank you for this. Honestly, from the bottom of my heart, thank you for this. Even though this is something you've already been working on, I thank Corporation Council for ensuring that this is back in front of us because this is absolutely needed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You have my 1,000 percent support of this ordinance. If there's anything I can do to help expedite or afford it or do whatever, just let me know, please. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm not going to be as diplomatic as you are. Chase knew exactly what they were doing. This is the same bank that did not put a branch on the east side. There were other branches that built brick and mortar banks where people needed to get money out of an ATM. They could go right down the street to banks that made that commitment. This is the same bank that has been noted for not providing loans to the banks that
 to African-American people. But when it came time to our death, now you want and you're going to try, even if you gave it without a fee, it was wrong.
 to put it in front of a library that was designed by an African American architect in the middle of the African American community. You put the ugliest ATM you could, and I'm sure nobody from that community called and said, Chase, please bring us an ATM. Well, people from that community are saying, Chase, please give us a mortgage. Chase, please give us a home equity loan. Chase, please finance a grocery store.
 Chase does not have the best record. So I agree with you, council member. It's a slap in the face. You'd have dumped that ATM there. And I know you're working on something right now for make sure that never happens again. At the end of the day, Chase should be ashamed of itself. And it owes the families because what, what, what it owes, it owes them, it owes them. What was the reason
 to bring an ATM on Jefferson. What can you justify that right across the street from a massacre, a bank that has not proven itself friendly to our community still came for his money? If I wasn't on the chair and if I ain't gonna switch, call to remember I prayed. I say a bad word right now, but I know children are watching. And so I wanna be diplomatic, but it's bull. So thank you. All right.
 Anything else? I forgot where the meeting. Next item. Item number 84, fee waiver, parade of circles. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 85, ordinance amendment chapter 442, wireless facilities and public right-of-way. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 86, waive fees for lane repass. Motion to approve items 86 and 87. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, June 21st, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance file on civil service is Tuesday, June 21st, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, June 21st, 2022 at 1 p.m. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, June 21st, 2022 at 2 p.m.
 The Common Council will be holding a public hearing regarding reapportionment on Tuesday, June 28, 2022 at 5 p.m. in council chambers. And hybrid as well, please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend the committees and public hearing. Council member Stanley. Can we please revisit item number nine out of legislation? Certainly can.
 Yeah. You want to call that? Item number 9, special use 81 Abbott for Tavern. The motion was to approve with conditions. I just wanted to read into the record that the condition be that it's a one-year sunset on that license. With that amendment to it, the motion stands with the stated second. Any announcements, council members?
 Hearing none, and I know Councilmember Wyatt might not feel in the mood to say, but he had a wonderful university day for two days without incident and people just being back together again. And I know there were people from every district that came over. So thank you for giving us a time to be together as a community. Motion? Seconded by Councilmember Joseph Golombek Jr.