Councilmember Fontana?
 Present. Councilmember Francik? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Council President Pridgen? I have keep. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyeth? Here. Quorum present. I stand for the pledge of the United States of America to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain for today will be Father Ben Fiore. Father, can you tell us where you're from? We welcome you to the chamber. I'm the pastor of St. Michael's Church on Washington Street, right down the block. All right. Thank you for being with us. Let us pray. God of all goodness and compassion, we acknowledge you as the source of favor which you lavish upon us every day. As we begin this session, we ask that you open our ears so that we might hear the people who call out to us. We ask you to open our heart. so that we might respond with compassion and generosity to the needs that are presented to us. We ask you to open our minds and fill them with the wisdom that we need to devise policies and strategies to address the needs that we are confronted with. We ask this in your name, God of all goodness, now and forever. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Father. Memorialist Councilmembers? Councilmember Wyatt? I'm just praying for the family of Timmy, TJ Jackson who passed recently. I grew up with Tim as part of the NICYO family in the Randy's Fifth League and he was just a good, good guy. I know Pastor Pritchard funeralized him today. Just a good young man, a good guy and someone that always had a smile and a good word to say. So just praying for his family and his passing. Thank you. Thank you. TJ was just funeralized about an hour or two ago, and his eulogy was actually about basketball. So, yeah, that was great. Hearing none others, we have had one soldier give his life since our last meeting. And so we pause for a moment of silence in these chambers for those names called, or anyone else who you may be remembering at this time since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Council Member Fioletto has the floor. Thank you very much, Albright. I wanted to take a moment for our meeting today to recognize the outstanding work that Albright Knox does, and specifically their public art. The public art initiative began a few years ago, and I'm sure everyone here at the Washington TV has seen their different public art projects, whether it's the Freedom Wall. Recently, they just completed a great job. These projects, you know, one day you're walking down the street, you walk down the street a week or two later, and you have a building transformed or a block transformed, and a lot of people don't appreciate it. effort that goes into it whether it's engaging the building owners who want to have public art they're engaging the community and it has such an impact on the area it beautifies the economic development pack there's one mural goes deli on the olden and the business owners every single day taking pictures of the mural, then they're going inside of his business, grabbing some food, grabbing something to drink. And it really does form the area, brings people together. I was going for a bike ride earlier this summer, going down to the pool mural. I didn't quite know, I saw the word welcome, I didn't know what everything else was. I stopped to look at it, I saw a gentleman, he was from Burma, and he explained to me that it says well his language on it too. So him and I started having a conversation. It's just wonderful how it really brings people together. So we wanted to recognize the gallery and the public art. So I have a portion. Public Art Initiative is a service for all people who are operatively produced. to establish West New York as a critical cultural center. The Albright-Knot Public Art Initiative team, headed by Curator of Public Art Aaron Ott, with Public Art Project Coordinators Eric Jones and Zach Bowler, has been a catalyst of public art for the region, with over 25 projects completed and more to be completed this summer. Now we have a presentation of council members who are here and... adopted this proclamation and entered it into the official public record of the City of Buffalo and we the members of the Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that the council will pause in its deliberation on June 12 2018 which will henceforth be known as Albright-Knox Public Art Initiative. I'm gonna now hand the mic over to Yanni Serent for a few words. Thank you. Council President Pridgen, Council Member Ferraletto, members of the Buffalo Common Council, thank you very much for allowing us to partake and initiate this initiative. If it has one purpose, it is to lower the boundaries between the place that a museum may be and the community that surrounds it. So we want Albright Not to be an inclusive, diverse place and we want the museum to be a part of everybody's lives, in and beyond the physical structure that we today call a museum. So we thank you for your partnership. We thank you for all that you do for the city of Buffalo and the Western New York community. It's an honor and a pleasure to work with you, and I know I speak on behalf of our board president, Alice Jacobs, and the public art team when I say that we are just delighted to be working together with the city of Buffalo on important initiatives that that improve the quality of life for everyone in the city and beyond. Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to thank Dr. Sirin and his team last Friday, June the 8th. They are at the dedication for the very, very beautiful – Joel, when he was bicycling, saw the one work with all the readings on – and Fillmore. on Fillmore Avenue, but this work was done by Wojciech Kowalcz-Otecki, and it was a painting mural on the wall of Bob Sienkiewicz's house, which is a former bank building that he converted, and it was just a wonderful, wonderful work of art. Without this team, this beautification of my district would not happen. So I just wanted to thank you. Thank you. I said they brought all the cool people today from Albright Knox. Like, we're really, really thankful what they're doing. My computer just went down, so I'm not going to hold up the meeting. But if you need me, just raise your hand. I'll go back to the old school way. No, he's got to redo it. All right. Any other presentations? All right. Hearing none, are we ready? So everybody has late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Yes. Hearing none, and I do apologize, several like-files did come in after meeting with law, and they were time-sensitive, so we need to get them in so we can get them... to the proper committees so that some of these actions can begin as soon as possible. So I do want to apologize for the reason for the late files that are before you. Hearing none, it does not take away your right to object to the late file. I ask you, as we get to that, if you have not had a chance to review it from the top. Mr. Chairman, motion to take items 72, 73, and 96 out of order. All right. Now, because we have some hand changes here, I've just sent council staff back up to make sure that these are written so that they are part of the written agenda. I think it's so important for transparency. So when we call these some of these written numbers, I want to make sure we're calling the right one. So 72 was already there. What was the other one, Majority? 73. 73 was there. And what was the second one? 96 which will be the discharge of item 18 864 right all right second by councilmember Golombi motion to adopt the discharge for ladies got a called item 70 72 is discharge item 18-9 88 from Finance motion to adopt uh second by Councilman Columbia 73 is discharge item 18 990 from Finance motion to adopt second by Councilmember why item 96 is discharge legislation naming of Bridge motion to adopt second by Councilmember Wingo all right this is taken care of Councilman Fontana you have the floor procedurally Jerry we just adopted the discharges we did we move the items no they'll be coming out later on yeah okay no Jeff so we got rid of discharge we'll get to thank you sure gotta make sure yeah I don't want to point to zoning Board of Appeals Motion to approve items 1 and 2. Seconded by Council Member Freyla. Item 3, disposition of real property, 11 St. Paul. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Frenzel. Item 4, submission of monthly report, May 2018. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 5, adoption of Buffalo Local Waterfront Revitalization Program. Mr. Chairman, this item is going to legislation. efforts have been made since early 80s to Create a local waterfront Revitalization program this is something that we're going to be considering next month for us to review and vote on So send legislation sent the leg sent second my councilman for a little and majority leader I think we went right. I mean, I know you called out item two and we approved it, right? Yes, I just want to comment on item two, which is the the portrait of the past council president Franczak which is probably one of the most intriguing and almost jumps out at you portraits in this chamber it is very well done it's almost like he can walk off of that canvas And it was just mentioned in an article today I was reading about the chambers and then about the portrait. So if you have not had a chance to see that portrait, please take a moment to see it. It's to my left, and it's just very well done, Mr. President. Thank you. Did you have anything you wanted to say? The young gentleman wouldn't do a reproduction from Mad Magazine Don Martin caricature that I sorely desired. And when you mentioned to me hanging in the chamber, I got a little nervous. I realized it was the portrait. But something to think about for Mr. Fontana and yourself and even the mayor. is that I spent weeks searching the Buffalo Society of Artists, and I came up with three, and I selected this young gentleman, Mark Duquette, because he was really talented. And so I sat in his parkside studio on four different occasions, and my wife walked in and she said, wow, that's you. And so he really captured it and did a great job, and I think he's going to have a great future. He lives in the city of Buffalo, his wife's in the city, and I think he's got a great future, and we're very happy with him as well. And he was cheaper than some of the other guys. Thank you for letting us know that. We wondered if it would take our retirement to pay for it. Thank you, Mr. President. Next item. Item 6, 175 Buffalo River, designated Concrete Central Elevator as local landmark. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, amend lease agreement between City of Buffalo and Grassroots Gardens. Motion to approve items 7 and 8. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 9, Report of Sale 296, DeWitt. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 10, Report of Sale 262, Waltz. Motion to approve Items 10, 11, and 12. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 13, Appoint Complaint. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Majority Leader. I'm sorry, by President Proctor. item 14 audit report on the internal controls at the division of licenses motion to send finance second by councilman friends under 15 certificate necessity transfer funds receive and file items 15 and 16 second by councilman friends item 17 appoint internal audit administrator motion to send civil service second by councilman fronton I'm 18 notification cereal motion to receive and file SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GALAMBET. ITEM 19, CHANGING CONTRACT, BROADWAY MARKET. MOTION TO APPROVE ITEMS 19 THROUGH 22. SECOND BY PRESIDENT PROTO. ITEM 23, PERMISSION TO AUTHORIZE MODEL SMALL CELL FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. MOTION TO SEND TO LEGISLATION. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRIELO. ITEM 24, PERMISSION TO EXTEND AGREEMENT WITH WELLNESS INSTITUTE AT APOLLO MEDIA CENTER. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRIELO. ITEM 25, PERMISSION TO HIRE CONSULTANT GHD. Motion to approve items 25 through 29. Second by council member wide I'm 30 a point chief water pollution inspector motion to send the civil service Second by council member friends. I'm 31 permission to accept 2018 gun involved violence elimination grant motion to approve items 31 and 32 and my president producer I am 33 point a conflict typist Motion to send the civil service in my councilman for your loan item 34 point firefighter motion to approve I'm sorry, which number was that? 34 a point firefighter Civil service motion is sent to civil service and my council member Wyatt item 35 tire handler license 2070 2170 South Park motion is sent to legislation items 35 and 36 So my councilman wingle I am 37 to a contract extension motion to approve items 37 and 38 so my customer of the Lombard item 39 on the return to see clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval 515 motion to receive a file at 39 through 44 SECOND BY COUNCILMAN WIGHT. ON THE ITEM 38, I DON'T NEED TO REVISIT IT BECAUSE I'M NOT GOING TO CHANGE THE MOTION. I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK ON THIS IS THE FIRE POLICE AND FIRE PROMOTIONAL CONTRACT AMENDMENTS AND BASICALLY WHAT THIS MOTION IS FOR THOSE WHO ARE IN THE CAUCUS SO YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE. WE ARE ASKING, WE ARE ENSURING THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES DOES NOT Am I in the right one? But does not yet does not renew the contract for promotions with the basically the team that comes in, conducts the interviews and then makes recommendation about fire and police. But I want to be clear. This does not mean that the council will hold up any. promotions, we simply want to know before that contract is extended. Because what we found in this contract is that at the end of the day, over $200,000 more had to be paid. Now in all fairness, contract did say that there would be a to be determined amount. And from the presentation from Corporation Council, it does not appear that those amounts are fraudulent in any way. They are justified, at least in what the contract said. But before it is extended, which it could be, we want the council to have that approval on it. So that's what the amendment is. Thank you. Councilman White. And I just want to add, I want to thank John Hannibal for his diligence in going through the receipts and the contract. Yeah. I just want to echo what Councilmember Fontana said. He's a good guy. But he did a fantastic job in going through it and we went through it page by page and, being a former auditor to see the packet that he put together being an attorney was pretty impressive. So, but again, thank him for his diligence and going through and really explaining it to us and seeing where some of the issues may be where we have to be more vigilant in making certain that that doesn't happen going forward. Absolutely, Councilman. Absolutely. Next item. Item 45, appointing senior legislative assistant to motion to adopt items 45 and 46. Second by councilmember Wyatt and 47 notes apartment seasonal motion to receive and file I'm sorry. I'm trying to get my computer back. All right. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 48, notice of appointment temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 49, notice of appointment, council in turn. Motion to adopt. Second by President Proctor. Miscellaneous items. Item 50, promised land, church, intends to purchase lots. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 51, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomek. 52 SCQ our negative declarations motion to adopt items 52 59 so my councilmember go long back I'm 60 denial reasons 587 Fillmore special use permit motion to receive and file item 60 through 63 second by councilman friends at 64 Buffalo News public housing inspection scores motion to send the CD Second by Council Member White. Petitions, item 65, special use permit 1669, hurdle. Motion to send to lead to City Planning Board, item 65 through 69. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Committees, civil service, item 1, appoint complaint clerk. Motion to approve items number 1, 2, 3, and 4. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 5, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader. Finance Committee. Item 6, online auction site. This item has been discharged properly. Now motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item 7, request to standardize Buffalo Fire Department police bailout system. Are we looking for an approval on this one as well? The approval is, I don't know why it was discharged, so I have no idea. Well, we'll motion to approve. Thank you. All right. Was there a reason the Corporation Council is asking why we discharged this one? Is there a reason? Oh, I know why. Yes, I do know. Mr. Helfer called me on this item, and it was important for us to have this for the budgetary reasons because the new recruits need this gear. to be trained with so without the gear they can't get trained the further put pressure on our overtime budget in the fire department so It is a motion to approve all right second by the majority the name threw me off Thank you, sir. The development community item a report sale 637 Broadway motion to recommit second by councilman legislation committee item 9 food store license 1114 Genesee number 9 is approved with conditions my console and wingle item 10 mobile food truck and 10, 11, and 12 with no objections. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 13, Special Use Permit 102, Buffum. 13, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 14, Special Use Permit 587, Fillmore for a private club. Motion to deny with cause. Motion to deny with cause. Will the cause be filed? Council Member... Cause are filed. It's item 57. Causes are filed. It's item 60 in this agenda. Got it, sir. Causes are filed as noted by the Council Member. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 15, Special Use 1416, Hurdle. 15 originally came without recommendation. Motion now to approve. Seconded by Council Member Furillo. Item 16, Adaptive Reuse Permit 500, Parker. 16 also came without recommendation. The motion is to approve with between 10 and 15 events a year only. So the conditions that are being put down is 10 to 15 events? 10 to 15 events a year. This is your, I'm sorry, I'm looking in the wrong direction. 10 to 15 events a year, no more than that. So can we amend this to say a maximum of 15? Because I think it gets confusing. Yes, that's fine. So the approval with the condition of a maximum of 15 events Per year? Yes, sir. At this location? Yes. All right. Thank you. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 17, Landmark Application 511, Michigan. 17 and 18, motion to approve. Great. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 19, Used Car Dealer License 1575, Broadway. 19 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by the Majority Leader. Resolutions. Item 70, Appoint Senior Legislative Assistant. Motion for that. Okay. Second by council member Golombi. Item 71, ordinance amendment chapter 337, preservation standards. Second by councilman for your letter. I am 74 public access information is critical for citizens motion to approve item 74 Second my councilman Fontana west of floor. I hope yes. Yes, I do. Thank you. I appreciate that You know, I was gonna say if anyone's watching if people are watching today to go on here about this But they're probably not watching today because they can't find us If you took Channel 7 news or Channel 2 and Channel 4 and put them up on 1300, I think their viewership would really suffer. If you took the Buffalo News and put it in one stand in the city of Buffalo, their readership would suffer. Well, what Spectrum has done, I think, should be reversed. They have taken 18, 19, 20, 21, and 22, essentially the government channels. and educational channels, and now moved us to what I call Siberia. We're up in the 1,300 block of channels, and I've had cable in my house since I was 21 years old on Davie Street, and we've never washed 1,300. We don't even go up there as far as channel surfing. You have to surf all day. So, channel surfing does exist. All the network news knows it. You don't have to be Alan Pergamon to know how television is watched in western New York. People go through the channels. And they would catch us. If they see Darius, they would say, oh, I'm going to see what he's doing. They see Mr. Scanlon, okay, I'll see what he's doing. Mr. Wyatt, his festival. Now, they'll have to channel surf forever to get to any channel that has any of us on it, or the mayor, or government access, or education. So I think it's wrong. I think this is taking away the people's right to see what they're paying for. They pay for peg access. There's another issue, Mr. President, I think that you'll hit on that's important with this as well. But we'd like to see this resolution calls for Spectrum to reverse their decision and put us back on Channel 22, put the other channels back on the channels they were at, and we were replaced with a cooking channel. I mean, it's like, come on, is that really needed in Western New York, another cooking channel? And it's not even a good cooking channel. It's not even a good one. I think CMT was on there. If public access isn't important, more important than the Dukes of Hazzard, I don't know what is. So, if I need to drive a Dodge Charger to work one day in orange and stuff, we'll do it. But I think this should be reversed. The Dukes of Hazzard are not needed on Channel 22, and other cooking channels are not needed. But what people would like to see, and they're asking us for, are the government channels back on those channels? No, this has also been done in the cloak of secrecy as well. They came in the chambers one night, explained to us at 5 p.m. they're going to do this, and we were like, what? And they're saying, yeah, everyone seems to like it. We're like, we don't like it. people won't like it. And when you turn to those channels now, there's not even a scroll. There's nothing to tell you that there's a change. Now they'll say on one of the channels, it says go to their website to find their new channel listings. That's pretty sad. They could have at least scrolled it on there for a few weeks. So I'm upset about it. I think at this point, people are not going to see this council meeting unless they're streaming live. The voice of the people is being stifled and I think that should not happen. So that's why we did the resolution and I appreciate all All of our colleagues are supporting the resolution today. I'd like to be signed on to the resolution. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Fontana, for putting this resolution forward. I think it's definitely needed. As I attended the meeting as well and talked to Spectrum about some of the issues as far as customer service, it seemed as though they weren't very interested in that, but they were very interested in taking the access to the public for seeing information. I have worked very diligently in my district in sharing with my residents that if they want to know what's going on in the university district for meetings, they can go to public access. Now that access is not available. If you don't have a box, you can't get that information. I tried to get the 22 or 1,300 with the little box that we have in our offices. You can't get it. So they have really done a disservice to the community. The residents peg access to have access to public access, government access information, and now they're paying a fee and not getting a service. So I hope that they will be sensible and responsible in returning information to the public and not just putting us in, as you said, Council Member Siberia. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I think, you know, we worked so hard to get this chambers or get the Common Council on live so that people complain about, some people complain about a dark government. And we've tried our best to be the most transparent government possible. around in all ways. You can go to the website, you can look at our agenda online, you were able to watch us if you were part of City of Buffalo. It's awful odd to me that on the night that we invited them into these chambers to talk about the prices of cable that we got sent to Siberia. I'm not sure if that was, I don't know, I don't know why after All of these years, I've been on public access. Councilmember Wyatt and I started on public access. We were in our early 20s doing this show. And we were on the same channel all of this time. All of a sudden, when we are advocating for citizens and saying, as the man said, the rent too high, you know, that the cable is too high, we got sent. I mean, when I say they kicked us, they kicked us far. However, what they will still consider can still continue to do is to get 150 to 180 dollars a month from the from our citizens. But people now who we started connecting parents to education. This council has had more education meetings than ever. Education access is there. Parents are watching. Councilman Wingo filled the chambers recently with an event. Education access is gone. Government access is gone. Public access is gone. I mean gone. And if you're not paying top rate, you can't see it. And to me, that's unfortunate and to me it should not occur. And I hope that you ask them to come back into chambers and I'll tell you what I'm not going to do. I'm not coming back in in the evening to accommodate them. They need to come in in the day when we're meeting, into our committee meeting, and explain to us how that was a benefit to the people of the city of Buffalo. But when you only got one cable company because they own all of the lines, this is what you get. and you end up with people who don't really consider the citizens and what that change meant. Council Member Fontana. Thank you. And the nighttime meeting we held that night for the public working class to come in and be able to speak to us, I would also like this to be sent to the PSC as well. And if we could adopt the resolves to remain or to finance, we'll bring them into the committee and have them explain the item. That would be fantastic. There you go. Thank you. With those instructions. Next. Oh, I want to be added as a sponsor as well. Add Councilmember Wyatt to that resolution. Thank you. Next item. Councilmember Franczak, add Councilmember Franczak. Add Councilmember Rivera. Add Councilmember Wingo. Add Councilmember Scanlon. Add Councilmember Fialetto. Of course, add Councilmember Golombek. Everyone is added. And watch the Councilmember Golombek show next week. Channel 1400 at 2 a.m. Thank you, council members. Next item. Item 79, Operation Slumlord. Motion to approve items 79 and 80. All right, second by Councilman Wingo. On 79, we could have just went, I wanted the council support. This will begin a process in Ellicott District for those who are watching, those in Sabira, those who are watching live, that will look for the ten worst property owners, slumlords in Ellicott District. And we will give them a wonderful gift. at the end of the summer, which will be a sign in front of their property with their name and their address on it. And this is not for a senior citizen who may be having a hard time, who pays their taxes, who has a gutter falling down. People don't even need to call me on those. This is for people who have consistently and constantly skirted around the system, have these houses or businesses up with boards on them and not cutting the grass and got all kinds of violations. I'm going to give you a gift from the elegant district and we already put up two signs. We're going to put up 10 signs by the end of the summer and welcome you to the slumlord club. Next slide. I'm 81 police and fire promotional contract review and oversight motion to approve. So my council member why I'm 82 community garden at BPS school 18. Mr. Chairman, the motion is to approve, but I'd like to comment on this. Absolutely. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. You have the floor, Majority Leader. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I'm a big proponent of community gardens. This particular community garden is directly across the street from Public School 18. The kids have taken care of this garden for a number of years now. And we found out just recently that there's an interested party perhaps in purchasing the lot and what i'm proposing to do today is to send that particular plot of land to the board of education since the kids are taking care of it and then taking it off so there's no possibility that they would use this garden for anything other than a community garden and i say this today because i see dr pressy in the back we have met with the board of education we're sending this resolution to the board of education so they will accept this parcel of land and protect it for the kids so it's not sold from underneath them. So I'm going to ask the Board of Education to please accept the land on behalf of the City of Buffalo. All righty. Motion to say so. I think we've already... Okay, yep. Next slide. Item 83, fee waiver request for Buffalo United Front's Family Fishing Day. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 84, final supplemental generic environmental impact statement. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. 5. Waver fees for EID at the park. Motion to approve. 2. Council Member Fonten. 3. Support for Climate and Community Protection Act. Motion to adopt. 2. Council Member White. 3. 7. Waver fees for Boys and Girls Club use of Caz Pool. Motion to approve. 2. Council Member Scanlon. 3. 8. Appoint Senior Legislative Assistant to. Motion to adopt. 2. Council Member Scanlon. 3. 9. Home Rule Request. What would you like to do? That's yours. Home Rule? Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Frey, 11. Item 90, waive park rental and special event fees. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 91, budget and personnel amendment to civil service and compensation and benefits. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 92, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to approve items 92 and 93. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt, sir. Motion to adopt, 92 and 93. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 94, Buffalo Charitable Gifts Reserve Fund Resolution. WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE? THESE WILL GET TO COMMITTEE. MOTION TO SEND TO COMMITTEE. MOTION TO SEND TO LEDGE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER FONTANA. ITEM 95, LOCAL I. INFERENT NUMBER ONE, BUFFALO CHARITABLE GIFTS RESERVE FUND TAX CREDIT. SAME THING. MOTION TO SEND TO LEDGE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER FONTANA. ANNOUNCEMENT OF COMMITTEE MEETINGS. 96. WE DID THAT THREE TIMES. OKAY. I'M SORRY. LET ME LET YOU DO YOUR JOB. Not a problem. Announcement of Committee Meetings, Regular Committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 19th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 19th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 19th, 2 p.m. Councilmember, is there any announcements? Councilmember Franczak? Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Of course, one of Buffalo's great festivals. It will be on Saturday, June 16th. It will be Juneteenth, which celebrates freedom, and it's one of the largest Juneteenth parades in the United States of America. Everybody's invited. It kicks off noon on Saturday, the 16th of June. at Bailey and Genesee and goes west all the way to Martin Luther King Park. The weather's always great. I don't remember a lot of bad weather over there. The weather's nice and sunny. There's thousands and thousands of people. There's tons of units. Very exciting just to watch all the units. And when my wife and I go, we always go for the food. We always go from one booth to the other. But it's a cultural. I don't want to just emphasize, you know, food for your stomach, but also food for your mind. And so there's a lot of very good cultural booths. There's vendors to you know, buy your Significant other a nice little sundress or something like that, but it's always a great great festival People are should really come out from far and wide It's Saturday and Sunday and also on Saturday and Sunday the 16th and 17th of June is Buffalo River Fest and in the Old Force Ward community on the transformed Ohio Street. Used to be in Father Connolly Park, but now it's in Peg Overdorf Park and along the river. And you've got Boots talking about history of Buffalo, and the Buffalo Waterfront, the old First Ward, but it's also, there's a lot of vendors with food and, you know, entertainment, things of that nature. So two of the great festivals, and I'm glad that people are coming, and they should continue to really support and take advantage of these great festivals. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Councilman Wingo? I could not have given that announcement better than Councilman Franczak regarding Juneteenth, and of course it is this weekend on the 16th and 17th. but we also have another uh june is a very eventful month for a master district because we also have the juneteenth on the 16th and 17th and again the following week on next month we have the peppy martin jazz festival which is in the month of july the 22nd and the 29th of course that's always another very very very well attended meeting, event, event, event for the community, not just for Madison, but all of the city of Buffalo. Both events are open to the general public. The Juneteenth Festival is actually the largest Juneteenth Festival in the country, and the Pepper Martin Jazz Festival is becoming one of the go-to featured jazz concerts in the country as well. attracting musicians from all across the country. So these are some very, very major events. We would like for everyone to come out, participate, and to take part. Other than that, thank you, Councilman Franczak, for this great description of the Junitini Festival and all what it means as it relates to the rich culture and heritage of the African people here in the United States, as well as the Pan-African flag that we raised in front of City Hall, keeping the opportunity for the League of Sankofa. And it's just a great time for us to come out for food, fellowship, friends, and fun. Thank you, Mr. Pastor. No breakfast this evening. I'm going to eat. Before I give the floor to Councilmember Wyatt, I do want to say congratulations on a successful University Day. there were probably more people than would be at Nicki Minaj in October. There were so many people, and I wasn't able to stay for the concert. But when I got there to see people from not just university districts, There were people that came from across the city and the children who were there, the health stuff that was there, the vendors that was there. I just wanted to congratulate you on a job well done. Thank you so much. And, Council President, I just want to acknowledge and thank my colleagues for their support. Council Member Wingo, Council Member Revere, Council Member... Fontana, Councilmember Viriletto and yourself for participating and coming and all my colleagues so that everyone had their support. I mean especially council staff we had some dedicated people who came and supported and it was just a great great day in the University District for a long time we hadn't had any activities and this is one that we've developed for the last four years and it's grown every year and really warms my heart when we have families and people who can just walk in their neighborhood to a location on South Campus at the University of Buffalo and having a quality event that is embraced by families and children. So again, thank you everyone for their support and we just look forward to having another successful event next year. Great. Any other announcements? Well, Father, you must have prayed well for us. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Thank you, Father.