One, two, three, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman? Present. Councilwoman Everhart? Present. Councilmember Ferraletto? Here. Councilmember Golombic? Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk? Present. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the Republic for which it stands, and the Republic for which it stands. I would ask that you please remain standing for today's invocation, which will be offered by today's guest, Pastor John Hasselbeck of Northgate Church. Your hand is upon the city of Buffalo and has been since its very inception. Lord, we thank you for the amazing things you've done in Buffalo, for the rich history you've given us, bringing people together from all over the world, every tribe, every tongue, and every nation. And you've brought us together in unity, and you have built a city, Father, that many have called the City of Light. Father, thank you for what you have done. But Lord, we believe that you're not finished. We believe that you have good things ahead for the city of Buffalo. And so I pray today for every council member, for every person here today. Father, I pray that your peace, your hope, your joy would fill them. Father, I pray where there's been hurt, where there's been unforgiveness, where there's been rifts, I pray that you would bring healing. I pray that you would bring forgiveness today. Lord, your word says how good and pleasant it is when brethren dwell together in unity. So I pray, Lord, for the unity of your spirit over this council. We pray, Lord, that you would bring us fresh vision for the city of Buffalo. And Lord, we're believing that the best days of Buffalo are not behind us, but yet ahead, that we shall be known again and again as the city of light. Father, there are people who in the past called Buffalo the armpit of our nation, and yet we believe that is no longer and is not the case. We pray, Lord, that you would turn things upside down and that Buffalo would become a shoulder in our nation, a city that people look to as a standard for which other cities will look to for guidance and direction and a model, Lord, of what a city can be. when its people are drawn together by your love. So, Father, we pray that your love would rule and reign in this city. We pray that you would rule and reign in your city. We pray for the decisions made here today that... your will would be done and your kingdom would come and that we would look to you for wisdom in every decision that is made and that you would be glorified through each person here and in the city of Buffalo. We thank you for what you've done and what you're about to do and we turn our eyes and hearts to you in the mighty name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. God bless you. Thank you. Pastor Hasselbeck, thank you for joining us today. Council members and memoriams, Majority Leader Halton-Polk. Thank you, Council President. I, along with the citizens of the Ellicott District and those of us in the city of Buffalo, we mourn the loss of Mother Gail Wells. She was a beloved constituent. She was an unelected. public servant she served the copper town community she was an educator she has mentored so many people who will miss her she is our nature girl she Her last thing that she did on this planet was doing what she loved, which was watering and taking care of the Earth and the planet. She will be sorely missed in the Ellicott District. We also mourn the loss of DJ Smooth. He was actually going to provide services this weekend at the Juneteenth Festival, but he was also an Ellicott resident. Very excited to do so, and unfortunately his life was cut short, too short. He lived too short a life and it was cut short too soon. And finally, as a point of personal privilege, Though she did not live here, her name was Kyle Brace and she was the scheduler for Majority Leader Crystal Peoples Stokes and she was a good friend. And I had the privilege of seeing her just two weeks ago where I got a chance to give her a hug. And it was the first time seeing her since being in this position and last week she took her last breath, and so I mourn her loss. Council member, go on back. Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside neighborhood lost Ron Kenia, the husband of Barbara Kenia, went to school with his kids. Kevin Stewart and Tracy and Susan. He's going to be very, very sorely missed at the senior center at Northwest Buffalo Community Center, St. John Utes, Knights of Columbus, as well as his family and friends. For those who were mentioned today and any members of our first responder or armed forces families that may have lost their lives in service since our last meeting, we ask that we now take a moment of silence. We have several presentations before today's meeting. I believe we have one from Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Council President. Welcome to our council chambers. This week we honor and celebrate Gay Pride Month in the United States and here in the city of Buffalo. It also marks the 55th anniversary of the Stonewall Uprisal in New York City in 1969. And there are many people that have lent their voices to this cause and this movement and organizations as well. And today we recognize an individual, Anya would you please come down? Anya Woods serves as a specialty coordinator for Evergreen. Her dedication and leadership in providing comprehensive healthcare to people in the community is unmatchable. Anya is responsible for coordinating cultural aware. gender affirming healthcare across all areas of Evergreen Health, including medical, behavior, and supportive health. Anya has six years experience working in harm reduction, both in community and clinical setting, and significantly enhance access to care for transgender, gender and non-conforming people, sex workers, people living with HIV in western New York and beyond. And whereas Anya provides invaluable community education to service providers about gender affirming care, HIV treatment and prevention, hepatitis C, sex worker health, and the New York State Uninsured Care Program. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed, the City of Buffalo, the Common Council recognizes, honors Anya Wood, her outstanding contribution to healthcare, commitment to culturally aware, gender affirming care, and have significantly improved the quality of care for a diverse community, it profoundly impacted the health and well-being of individuals in Western New York. Thank you very much, Anya. Hi, everyone. I didn't really prepare anything, but I just wanted to say thank you very much for this award. Okay, I was just saying thank you very much in advance for the award and happy Pride, happy Juneteenth. Next we have a presentation by Council Member Nowakowski. I'd like to welcome down Carol Spesser please. She's a Niagara District resident, she's now my constituent. But she's my dear friend, so it's an honor to be able to recognize Carol today, especially since in honor of Pride Month we were able to raise the flag. But it was raining and it was not too much of a pretty day, so we had to run through our program really fast. So it actually led to a few people being overlooked and not being able to really expound on why we're here today. So I could say this because, You know, I'm 32, I'm in the young generation, and sometimes the younger generation, we think that we threw the first brick at Stonewall. We don't really realize that people have been here centuries before doing the hard work and organizing and existing here out and proud for a long time to make sure that people like me, can really be able to achieve our fullest accomplishments. And I think that's a testament of why I'm able to sit on the Common Council today as an elected member is because of the hard work of Carol Spesser and many people that she helped organize. And this is in observance of 30 years of the first march in 1994 that we were able to have the Gay Pride March to City Hall. So I will give this over to Carol, who will expound more on the honor of 30 year anniversary. Thank you. Well, I wasn't going to expound on that. I'll do something else a little bit. So I wanted to say, it is such an honor to receive this accolades from my beloved city of Buffalo. So I want to thank my common council friends and a heartfelt thank you to Fillmore District Councilman, Mitch Nowakowski, who I call my queer grandson. So Mitch. Your energy and your creativity and your kindness, you give my weary activist heart hope. I am Buffalo. As a kid, I rode my bike on these city streets, as did my mom and my grandfather and my great-grandfather. My great-grandfather, Wolf Bergman, he had a hardware store in the corner of Oak and Eagle. And he was also on the jury for the guy who killed President McKinley. So, yes, I am really a Buffalonian. I'll be 76 soon, and I have been an out and proud Buffalonian for decades, just like all those courageous folks you see in the pictures in the lobby. I came of age when it was only a bad thing to be gay, a mental illness or an abomination, even illegal. My family thought there was something terribly wrong with me. They were ashamed of me. They tried to fix me. But as you know, things have really changed in the last 50 years for LGBTQ plus people. I mean, geez, here I am getting an award for being queer when years ago all I got was a diagnosis. So now, when we say things have changed, I really should be saying we have changed things. As a grassroots organizer here in Buffalo, I've devoted my life to trying to make the world a better place. And for me, to be doing this rewarding work right here in my hometown where I grew up, it gives my life great meaning and happiness. And that's probably true for most of you here today. You get it. You have that same calling. You are drawn to a life of service. And you understand that deeply gratifying experience of being able to make a difference in your own backyard. Here in Buffalo, bloom where you are planted. Each of us in our own way, we can make a difference in this world. Together, we can do this. Happy Pride, happy Juneteenth. Thank you, Buffalo. This is nice. Next we have a presentation from our Majority Leader, Leah Holm Pope. I'm going to be joined by my colleagues. You got it. Oh, just a sec. We didn't plan this, but you know. We really didn't. But women do things. But we look cute though. Don't we? But I'll start really quickly. It is, you know, Pride Month, but it is also Juneteenth month. Happy Juneteenth. Happy Juneteenth, everybody. And so we wanted to make sure that we pay homage and recognize our living legends who carry out the tradition of Juneteenth and continue on that tradition for us to all enjoy in that cultural experience. And so I will let our majority leader read some of our proclamation. Sure. So today we are honoring and I don't see you. So we are going to honor today Marcus O. Brown. He's a native of the east side of Buffalo and devoted husband, father, and grandfather, and dedicated his life and family education and community service and cultural celebration significantly contributing to the betterment of the city of Buffalo. as you all know we've celebrated here in the city of buffalo juneteenth for the last forty nine years and though i don't see him here today uh... i don't want to read the whole problem proclamation and his love his compassion to our history the rich history of of juneteenth which is just for historical reasons 1865 in texas when those slaves finally heard two years after emancipation proclamation that we were free that is where juneteenth was born city of buffalo has the third largest juneteenth celebration in the entire country and to have that have that hosted by our very own Marcus O. Brown right here in the city of Buffalo, housed between my district and the Mastin District. The Ellicott-Mastin District means so much, and so we wanted to take time today to honor him in his absence. We will bring him back so that we can officially award him, but in the meantime, we'll take a picture anyway. Yes, and we want to see all of you at the festival and the parade this Saturday. Okay. Starts at 10 o'clock. See you there. See you there. Can we clap for Mr. Brown? Next we have a presentation by Councilmember or President Pro Tem Brian Bowman. Thank you Mr. President. May I ask that Taylor Blake comes down? Nice to meet you. All right, good afternoon everyone. Taylor Blake, MPA, GIA and AJP serves as Program Director of the Pride Center of Western New York. Taylor oversees the LGBT Health and Human Services Initiative, the Supporting Methamphetamine Overdose Prevention Program, and the Lorena Borjas Transgender and Non-Binary Wellness and Equity Fund. Ensuring grant deliverables and continuous process improvements focused on patient experience and outcomes, particularly for transgender and gender expansive community members. Taylor plays an essential role in planning and hosting the annual Trans Wellness Conference, an educational and celebratory gathering for people of transgender and non-binary experience and their allies. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed that the City of Buffalo Common Council recognizes and honors Taylor Blake. their dedication and outstanding contributions to the LGBTQ plus community. Particularly in supporting and advocating for transgender and non-binary individuals. Their leadership and commitment have created more inclusive and affirming environments, significantly impacting the well-being of countless individuals throughout Western New York. Everyone, Taylor Blake. I also did not prepare anything for today. I just want to say, as someone who's new to Buffalo, I'm deeply honored to be receiving this from our common council. It's been a pleasure being able to serve our community here in Buffalo and Western New York as a whole. So thank you all so much for having me here today. Happy Pride and happy Juneteenth. Enjoy the parade and celebration. Next we have a presentation by Council Member Joe Glumbach. Don Patterson, come on down. Welcome. Don is just a great guy, just to begin with. Don has spent so much of his life to spend towards young men and young women, building character inside of them. And he does this especially through the Buffalo Golden Gloves franchise that has been at the Northwest Buffalo Community Center on Law and Avenue since 2008? Okay, but he has done a remarkable feat with these young men and these young women winning championships and teaching them. And I think that the most important thing, at least for me, somebody who was a teacher prior to being on the council is The discipline that he's instilled in these young men and these young women and the expectation that they do service for the community that they live in. Whether it is at the local level in Black Rock Riverside or elsewhere in the city of Buffalo. Maybe not every young man, young woman can be a winner in Golden Gloves competition. But they can be a winner by giving back to their community, to our community, and being a better person. So without further ado, I want to recognize Don Patterson, who has served as president of the Buffalo Golden Gloves franchise since 2008. That I got right. And I want to welcome him to the council and congratulate him on all that he's done. And as the pastor and others said, all the things that are going to happen in the future. Thank you very much, Councilman Golombek and the council. I'm extremely honored to get this award and on behalf of the Buffalo Golden Gloves and the Golden Gloves of America, our national organization, I'm just extremely to be here. As you know, Buffalo itself has a tremendous history with Golden Gloves. For those of you who know the name Monsignor Kelleher, who started in 1938 entering young men into the Golden Glove tournament through his work at the Working Boys Home. And took over the Golden Gloves in 1960 here in Buffalo and is now one of the legendary figures in Golden Gloves as a Hall of Famer. And the work that he did, we try to duplicate, giving kids guidance, direction, some knowledge, and that's the key. Maybe 10,000 kids have walked through the door and I know that the chance of one of them becoming world champion and being up there with Floyd Mayweather is very slim. But they can all learn the life skills that's going to make them better people. And as the theme, what I heard everybody hear is something that a quote that I always use that Muhammad Ali says, your service to others. is the rent you pay for your room here on Earth, and that's what we try to teach them. So I thank you for this award, and we appreciate your support. Joe Golombek has been a tremendous supporter over the years. He's kind of humbled himself when he doesn't say how much support he gives me, along with some of the other community members. Joe Karuba, Douglas Jamel, has came aboard as tremendous supporters. So we look for the Golden Gloves to continue to grow. And we hope that you'll all come out next season when you see it's tremendous competition. Don't think about what you think about sometimes as it being brutality, but think of how hard kids work towards a goal to try to achieve something. And then come back the next day when things don't go their way, resilience and those type things are the things we want to teach them. So I thank you once again for this and thank you Joe. Really appreciate it. Three national champions, four actually qualified over the last two years, four qualified for the Olympics, Olympic trials. So this is not just trivial stuff that these kids are working hard and making tremendous strides. So we look for your support. Thank you. All right, Henry Jackson. I apologize, I think it was Saint Henry, right? I apologize. 41 years ago, Henry Jackson started a career with the city of Buffalo. A career defined by leadership, professionalism, and diligence. A career which regardless of the title you held as you climbed the ranks, was led by integrity, dedication, and commitment. With your strong work ethic and your unwavering dedication always on display, you've earned the recognition, the respect and the admiration of your colleagues, your peers, and your constituents. Just look around this room, I'm fairly certain no one's here to see me. So a steadfast advocate for the city of Buffalo, you've worked tirelessly. To address needs and concerns throughout the city of Buffalo. You've spent 41 years, that's 41 years of storms, 41 years of planning and executing. 41 years of endless phone calls and texts from people on this floor. So we want to thank you for that, but you've left a remarkable legacy of service in the city of Buffalo as you've continued on a yearly basis for more than four decades. Bettering the lives of the city of Buffalo and the people within it. So I have a proclamation here from the Common Council, from all nine of us. And we just want to extend our heartfelt appreciation to you on 41 years of outstanding service to the city of Buffalo. And we wish you nothing but the best in your future endeavors. And I'm fairly certain I won't be the last one to speak, but I wanted to congratulate you. Thank you. Thank you. 41. Well, these last couple of months, I mean, it's been like a fairytale ending to what in my mind has been the American dream career. I just want to thank you for the proclamation. I really appreciate it. And Buffalo is amazing. I think we can go really far. Love the people in the council. When they need me, I know that people voted for him, so I did whatever I could to try to make it happen. Because people want results, they want to see action. So I did my best to give them that. So I have my lovely family here with me today, my daughters and my niece and my great niece. I want to thank them for putting up with me, because I'm always on the go. But thank you very much. Love you Buffalo, thank you for everything. I want to get a picture. He's here, he plays. On a motion by Mrs. Leah Hulten Pope, seconded by Mr. Bowman, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on May 28th, 2024 were approved. Council Members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Mr. President, I would like to take item number 84 from the resolutions out of order. It's a discharge item. Motion to discharge item number 84 out of legislation. Item number 84, discharge item 24691 from legislation committee. Thank you. Motion to adopt. Motion is to adopt, seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number one, appointments, commission on citizen rights and community relations. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, memorandum of agreement for Local 17. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number three, amend grassroots garden lease. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number four, 139 Buffalo River and three lot lanes. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Item number five, permission to enter into agreement for environmental services. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number six, planning board findings for May 20th, 2024. A motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number seven, reported cell 258, 262, 295, and 297, bus state. Motion to approve items seven through and including 11. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Added number 12, appoint press information officer. Motion is sent to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Ferralito. Added number 13, audit of the contract for food services in City Hall. Motion is sent to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Added number 14, certificate of necessity for DPW equipment rental. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Den Pullman. Item number 15, sole source Snyder. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 16, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send items 16 and 17 to civil service. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 18, request for sole source for open mobility foundation. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 19, amended change order number 3. Motion to approve items 19 through and including 40. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Would entertain a motion to actually approve items 19 through and including item. 33. 33, seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 34, permission to extend agreement Buffalo Place. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 35, permission to hire Buffalo Fire Department Engine 37. Motion to approve items 35 through and including 40. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 41, notice of appointment. Motion to send items 41 through 46. To civil service, seconded by council member going back. I don't remember 47 permission to accept 2021 can I team grant motion to approve items 47 through 49 seconded by council member Rivera. Item number 50, a point assistant corporation council 3. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Permits and inspections, item number 51, food store license 2565 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 52, food store license 1320 Broadway. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Potempleman. Council Member Nowakowski, you have the floor. Mr. President, after being in my district a few days this week and last week, can we please rescind that previous motion to go to ledge so I can give it extra scrutiny? Sure. Motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Council Member Kolumbik. The motion is now to send to legislation, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 53, food store license 1080 East Lovejoy. Motion to send items 53 through and including 59 to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 60, ARB subrecipient agreement. Motion to approve items 60 through 62. All seconded by Council Member Ferraletto and Council Member Wyatt, you have the floor. Was I trying to get your attention before we seconded it? because I have questions on 60 and 62 and wanted to ask if those two items can go to finance instead of us approving them. We can do that, that's not a problem. Thank you. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Goldberg. Motion to send item 60 through 62 to finance? Excuse me, just 61 and 62. Motion to send items- Excuse me, I'm sorry, 60 and 62. Yes, sir. Excuse me. Motion to send items 60 and 61 to finance. No. So we will send, motion is to send item 60 to finance, seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 61, ARPS subrecipient agreement for group ministries. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 62, art sub recipient agreement for HBOF. Motion to send finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart, thank you. City Clerk, item number 63, cannabis license notice. Motion to receive and file item 63 through 65. Seconded by President Pro Tempulman. Item number 66, notice of appointment. Motion to send item 66 and 67 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 68, appoint Senior Ledge Assistant for. Motion to adopt items 68 and 69. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Miscellaneous, item number 70, summer programs. Motion to send to education. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 71, request for Buffalo Place Board to support office to residential conversion. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Council Member Rivera and Council Member Nowakowski, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm happy to see this go to Community Development Committee. My district now encompasses almost 80% of the parcels in the Central Business District and it abuts the Ellicott District. And it's been one of those topics on the council floor for the past five years where nobody wants to claim downtown. It's this obscure thing where say it's not in my district. I don't know, is that only for the wealthy? Or is that, and there's all these made up assumptions, but if you look at the census data, it's an actual neighborhood. And if you look at the tax rolls of where a large part of the tax base is driven, it's off those buildings. And then you go to cities around the world, they have thriving urban. dense downtowns that derive not only cultural attractions, but you have a multitude of mixed use housing options, especially in a housing crisis that we're facing here in the city of Buffalo because we don't have enough inventory. And the fact of the matter is there are some Claims that data suggests that there's 20,000 office workers that are not coming back to work. And that's 20,000 spots where folks were using in office buildings. And that's oftentimes now become archaic and it's not coming back. And the health and vitality of the city as a whole is that we have a thriving downtown. That we can make money because we're talking about constantly raising revenues. And that's having a strong tax base and sales tax base in areas that include the theater district. The downtown restaurant districts, cobblestone, canal side, you name it. It benefits us all so that we can generate revenue to provide services to the entire city of Buffalo. So we've seen that the governor has put in her own budget that's been ratified and passed in Albany that there are office to residential conversions where they are helping to make those conversions happen and so I'm thrilled that this is moving to CD so that we could talk about this as a city as a whole because it's something that we're Missing with not having at-large members on the council where we could talk about issues that are really citywide issues that affect us all Thank you. Mr. President okay motion stance item number 72 concerns on a map amendment for 112 aka 77 isabel motion to receive and file seconded by council member rivera item number 73 seeker negative declaration motion to adopt seconded by council member wyatt item number 74 u.s federal energy regulatory commission notice of preliminary permit application motion sending a waterfront development seconded by council member faraletto Item number 75, letter from Kristen Preve regarding Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion to send items 75 and 76 to Community Development. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Petitions, item number 77, zone and map amendment for 282 Guilford. Motion to send items 77 through and including 82 legislation and the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint account . Motion to approve items number 1 and 2. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 3, Appoint Communications Maintenance Supervisor. Motion to receive and file items number 3, including number 10. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Finance, item number 11, approval to purchase new police vehicles. Motion is to approve items 11 through and including 15. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Community Development, item number 16, City of Buffalo Fair Housing Report. Motion to receive and file items 16 and 17. Seconded by President Pro Tempore. Item number 18, Bigford, Eden, Alice, Black Club, regarding 98 Bigford. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Majority Leader, Halton Pope. Item number 19, concerns on a map amendment 112, aka 77, Isabel. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 20, addressing the impact of Get Her Done on the Seneca Bab Cop Community. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to CD. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 21, conditions at Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion to recommit items 21 and 22. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Legislation, item number 23, property manager license. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 24, petition in opposition to any retail business at 245 Ontario. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Glombeck. Item number 25, garbage collector license. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 26, special use 1420 Broadway. Motion to approve items 26 through 30 with conditions on 27. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Councilmember Glombeck, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. For item number 27, the conditions for the special use are for the patio hours to be Sunday through Thursday, 11 AM to 9 PM and everything has to be removed by 9 PM. Friday and Saturday, 11 AM to 11 PM. By 11 PM, everything has to be removed. The patio is for dining only, no smoking on the patio, no outdoor music, and there's a one year sunset clause for review of patio use. Thank you. Motion stands. Resolutions, item number 81, resolution requesting consideration of increasing full store license fees. Motion to adopt. Second by- 81 and 82. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 83, field day at Native American Magnet fee waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 85, fee waiver resolution for annual Sperry Park Unity Day. Motion to approve items 85, 86, and 87. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 88, ordinance amendment chapter 137, schedule of fines and penalties. Motion to send to legislation items 88 and 89. Seconded by Councilmember Goldberg. Item number 90 has been withdrawn. Item 91, fee waiver for Saturday and apart. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 92, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024 at 2 PM. Committee on education will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024 at 5.30 PM. Council members, announcements for your districts? Majority Leader Hall and Polk. Yes, Mr. President, the Ellicott District had the honor to celebrate Ms. Mrs. Brunette Washington, she's a super centenarian. I'm sure you saw her in the paper. She's 110 years old this past Saturday, a feisty 110 years old. And I would recommend everybody double check their family tree because she seemed to be related to just about everybody I knew in the city of Buffalo. We're very honored to have someone in our district who's lived that long, an amazing life, amazing history, full of energy, she's feisty and she's funny. And when I spoke to her, she said, I came in and wished her happy birthday. And her comment was, are you one of my great granddaughters? And my response was, no ma'am, I'm your councilwoman, I'm elected to represent you. And she's like, well God is still able. And I just thought that was the sweetest thing in the world, so I wanted to acknowledge her today. Additionally, the Ellicott District is having a stakeholders meeting on next Saturday the 22nd, 10 AM, 1230. It's a full stakeholders meeting as opposed to our monthly uh... smaller meetings this will be at the mccaskey schools for ninety nine eight ten ninety five jefferson at ten a m in the community room we will have uh... a full slate of individuals represented there uh... additionally we have our youth extravaganza on and june the twenty ninth i'm asking if there are still students or young people who are interested in participating please contact my office uh... but more importantly that we also have Some adults come and support their businesses. These are young entrepreneurs, we want to show up and support them. They will be at school six over at 414 South Division. Again, that is on the 29th of June. Please support them from 12 to 3 PM. Thank you. Councilwoman Eberhardt. Thank you, Council President. First, I just want to remind the residents of the city of Buffalo as a whole to come out this weekend, Saturday for the Juneteenth Festival happening in Martin Luther King Park. I also want to remind our Mass and District residents that we will be hosting our inaugural Mass and Family Reunion. On June 19th, that's next Wednesday, from 3 PM to 9 PM in Martin Luther King Park. Please register, reach out to my office, 716-851-5145. If you have any questions, there will be barbecue, there will be family friendly activities, and there will be a fireworks show in honor of Juneteenth, so see you there. Thank you. Nothing else, sir. Motion to adjourn. Motion is to adjourn, seconded by Councilwoman Everhurst.