I mean, I didn't know that. I don't win. You didn't tell me, you hear me? I don't know who I'm running off with. Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman, Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Council Member Ferraletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Majority Leader Hudson-Polk. Present. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, I would ask that you please remain standing for today's invocation. It will be given by our guest invocator, Pastor Mike Robinson of City Mission. As a perfunctory part of the program or the procedure or because it's what we do out of habit, instead we pause right now in the sincere recognition that we need your presence, your guidance, your wisdom. your understanding, your strength, and your courage to guide this deliberative body as they ponder the problems and develop the solutions that we need as citizens in Buffalo. We thank you for the diversity on the council, and we understand that at times there may be tension because of different perspectives, but we understand that we need a power greater than ourselves to bring about a consensus unity so that the many, many challenges faced by the citizens of this great city can be addressed in an appropriate, productive, and positive way. In your word it tells us that whatever we do for and to the least of those among us, that's what we're doing unto you. Lord, we pray that our children can make it to and from school safely without conflict and gunfire. And that those schools will have all of the equipment. necessary for their edification, for their education without consideration of zip code, race, creed, color or national origin. We need fair housing to be available and affordable in this city. We pray for the homeless, that this deliberative body will understand how we can address the need for everybody. To have a safe roof over their heads. We pray for those that are mentally ill, Lord. Those that are unable to make decisions for themselves that the continuum of care will be guided by this body to develop the proper programmatic structures. So that those that are not able to take care of themselves will always have people to take care of them. We pray for the government of this city, this body, needed to guide, strengthen, encourage and direct them. Lord, we pray for all of the first responders. We pray that you'll continue to guard their hearts, watch over them as they respond to situations that are difficult for anyone's soul to handle and stay whole and healthy. We pray for all the members of the armed forces serving around the world. to keep this great nation safe and to guarantee the safety and democracy to others. Lord, bring them back safe and whole. And lastly, Lord, we just thank you that in the process of discussion, deliberation, consultation, that there will be disagreement. And so we pray a special anointing of love on this body, one member to the other. And no matter how strong the disagreement, we pray that they will continue to respect each other as they do the best they can for all of us. And I lift this prayer in the marvelous and matchless name of Jesus Christ. Let everyone say amen. Amen. God bless you folks, thank you so much. Pastor Robinson, thank you for joining us today. Greatly appreciated. Council members in memoriams? Council member Glombeck? Thank you, Mr. President. North District lost Deborah Ebeling of the West Hurdle neighborhood, sort of in a It was a surprise to everyone involved. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. Monty Hoffman from the Buffalo Philharmonic passed away. I know his daughter Alicia, and I wanted to offer up our condolences. And last but certainly not least, Dan Quiter was North District Council member from 1978 to 1981. He served for four years, was my predecessor on this council. He got sick about a year or so ago and unfortunately they caught cancer when it was stage four very sadly. He survived by his wife, Teresa, and children. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. And he has been for the past year or so because he was involved in things like the Be a Friend Big Brother program. He was active at All Saints Parish and numerous other organizations in Buffalo, Black Rock, Riverside, and elsewhere. Council Member Bollmer. Thank you, Mr. President. This was a terribly sad weekend for our community in the city of Buffalo. Three year old Ramon Carter was killed in senseless violence. and had some time to spend with his mother on Saturday night after the vigil, and she told me that Ramon was such a big Bills fan. She showed me some pictures of him standing by a huge poster of Josh Allen, and his smile would light up this room. This is a senseless tragedy. Mother is guided by faith and she's relying on that faith to get through this very strong community minded woman But Ramon deserved to live his life safely in our community and unfortunately that didn't happen So just thinking about their family right now We also lost Lauren White, who was a Lovejoy neighborhood resident, and he was an advocate for a Buffalo teachers parents organization. And he fought very hard for the kids at school 43 where his students went. So he'll be very sorely missed as well. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Council President, today along with members of the family of Grand Master Nancy Maria Fernandez, founder of the Royal Taekwondo Academy, passed away June the 4th, leaving behind a legacy of dedication and service. She was the first Boricua and Muslim woman to earn a nine degree black belt. painting a way for women in the martial arts. Since 1973, she dedicated herself to training and teaching Taekwondo in Buffalo, empowering the community with her unwavering commitment and exceptional skills. Grandmaster Nancy Maria Fernandez opened the Buffalo Royal Taekwondo Academy in 1993. After years of providing free training sessions in numerous community centers, creatively overcoming financial constraints by holding classes in her own home. We remember her for remarkable and profound influence she had on many lives. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. I'm asking the city to keep in prayer a long-standing University District resident, Donald Collins, who died suddenly, and keep asking that we keep his family in prayer. He was a longtime Phyllis Avenue Block Club member, Block Club leader, and truly made a difference in the University District. Also asking for prayers for the, for Bobby Wright, who was a longtime I'm Kinfield Langfield resident and Bobby did everything for everyone. He's one of those people, those community people when you call them, he got it done. And so he died suddenly, so we asked for the city of Buffalo to keep both of those families in prayer. Thank you. Thank you for those who have been mentioned today and any members of our armed services community or first responder community who may have lost their lives in service since our last meeting. So we all keep all those who have been mentioned today in our thoughts. And for that, we'll take a moment of silence. To begin today's meeting, we have a couple of special presentations, and we will start with Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, Council President. Good afternoon. Are y'all awake? I am. Well, as June is... Coming to a close, I wanted to make sure that we honor someone from our community who has been an amazing, amazing advocate. Not just for LGBTQ rights, but also just for everybody. And I think that that is outstanding and deserves to be honored. And so I want to call down Mr. Alex Burgos. Please, yes, round of applause. So I won't read all of this because Alex's resume is very long, which is amazing. And I just want to make sure that we recognize you for all of your work. Not just, again, for LGBT rights, but for pulling the community in, right? Every event that I go to that you throw, it is always well represented by everyone around the community and I always love that. And so whereas Alex Burgos is a nationally recognized public affairs policy and health equity professional, a proud native of Buffalo's West Side, and the son of U.S. Army veteran and Niagara Street business owner Efren Burgos, and retired Buffalo Public School teacher Elizabeth Gonzalez. He has consistently been a voice for underserved communities, working in partnership with government, business leaders and organizations to deliver healthcare services, community programming, small business development and crucial funding and resources back to Western New York. Alex is a regional council member in New York State Governor Kathy Hochul's Hate and Bias Prevention Unit and serves as the Democratic National Convention delegate at large. His tireless work and commitment to the community have been recognized by many, many, many people. Now, therefore, let it be proclaimed that June is Pride Awareness Month, a time to recognize and celebrate the contributions of LGBTQ plus individuals and allies, and to reaffirm our commitment to equality, inclusion, diversity, Alex Burgos embodies the spirit of Pride Awareness Month for his outstanding contributions and unwavering commitment to health equity, social justice, and community empowerment, serving as an inspiration and advocate for all. Thank you, Alex, and congratulations. Would you like to say something? Thank you, Councilwoman Everhart, for your wonderful and very touching words. I'm deeply touched. I'm deeply honored and profoundly humbled to be recognized by my dear friend, Councilwoman Everhart, in conjunction with Pride Month. In 2022, my organization, Black and Latino Pride, was honored by another dear friend, Councilmember Nowakowski. So I wanted to give you a special acknowledgement. And today, I'm being recognized as an individual and as a proud member of our community. This recognition is not just a reflection of my own journey in this community, but I accept it on behalf of countless people who have fought to be their authentic selves, who have fought for representation, who have fought to be heard, even at tables where they weren't always welcomed. I fight for those who live to be authentically themselves, even in places in the world where they can't. in countries where being LGBT or a member of our community can result in violence, discrimination, and even death. I think of those who were brilliant minds in our community, artists, and people who we loved that we lost way too soon because of the HIV and AIDS epidemic that disproportionately impacted black, Latino, and trans communities. And so I accept this on behalf of them. Pride Month reminds us of the power that we hold in being visible and being brave, but most importantly, being our authentic selves. And it's when we are our most authentic selves that we are our most powerful selves. And when we're our most powerful selves, that ignites fear in people who benefit in us being shoved back into the closet. And so I ask everyone that in the face of adversity, that you continue to persist no matter where you're from, whether you're in a state that is a safe haven or you're in a state or a country where it's not as safe. I ask that those of us that have privilege, power, and benefit to open doors for those people, to draft policy that can protect them, that can open doors for them or give them voices or can give them a space to be heard to do so. Each and every one of us in our community brings a unique hue to the rainbow, painting a vibrant tapestry of diversity. I share this award with all those who have paved the way before us and for myself, tirelessly fighting for the rights that we hold dear today. As we celebrate Pride, I ask you all to recommit yourselves to creating a future where everyone, regardless of who they are, how they live, or where they come from, can live authentically and without fear. Together, we will keep pushing boundaries, shattering glass ceilings, and building the world that our children will love. Thank you from the bottom of my heart to the Buffalo Common Council and to Councilwoman Everhart for this recognition, and Happy Pride Month to all of you. You're very welcome, my love. Next we will have a presentation from Councilmember Nowakowski. Us to also do this honoree is Kim Hernandez. Can you please come down? So on our agenda we are soon to be able to vote on the passage of a committee on persons with disabilities. So I think that this is really fitting that Kim is here today with us in chambers. And I'll read a brief excerpt and then give her the microphone after. Kim Hernandez has served as a military veteran with 21 years of active duty and reserve service as an operating room registered nurse in the United States Army. Kim has dedicated the past ten years to working as a family support specialist with the parent network, providing invaluable support and advocacy to local military families of children with special needs, representing as a statewide and nationally advocate. Kim is a parent of three, advocating tirelessly for her children's individual needs with the Buffalo Public Schools and serving on the Special Education Parents Advisory Council. Buffalo District Parent Child's Council as well, and MVP, many of us know that acronym. Kim has contributed to her community as a certified community health worker, participating in various projects such as lead paint survey in Buffalo and helping families across the city access resources to the food pantry. Now, therefore, let it be known and proclaimed in the City of Buffalo and the Common Council honors Kim Hernandez for her outstanding dedication and advocacy for those that are living with disabilities. Kim's entire life has been in service to others and no one is more deserving of this recognition. Her work as an advocate exemplifies the importance of accepting and honoring each person's uniqueness as a natural and beautiful part of human diversity. Okay, thank you, thank you, Parent Network for letting me be a part of disability world, which I wasn't disabled at that time, but I am now, and it's okay. I could never be as eloquent as the gentleman before me, but everything that he said, I echo. So please, you know. People have a disability, it doesn't mean that they can't do things. Just we work with our strengths and that's what I would always want to tell people is just look at what's positive. And everyone's capable of doing many things and don't look at our disability as a clutch. It's probably an asset. So hire us, work with us, and that's it. I'm not a speaker, so. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member. On a motion by Mrs. Leah Halton-Pope, seconded by Mr. Bollman, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 11, 2024 were approved. Council Members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Item number one, pro-housing community resolution. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number two, 2024-2025 annual action plan with budget recommendations. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Farrell-Letta. Item number three, designated developer extension for Butler Group Enterprises. Motion to approve items three through eight. Seconded by Council Member Gombach. Item number nine, annual audit plan for 2025. Motion to send items nine and ten to finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 11, certificate of necessity for Lovejoy District. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 12, inter fund loan for Tiff Street Scape Design. Motion to approve items number 12 through and including 31. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 32, report of bids for a mill overlay pavement repairs. Motion to send items 32 and 33 to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 34, notice of appointment for general mechanic. Motion to send items 34 and 35 to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Farrell-Lotto. Item number 36, approval to renew contract for fire and range. Motion to approve items 36 through 38. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Header number 39, food store license 3385 Bailey Avenue. Motion to send items 39 through 41 in legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Gulenbeck. Header number 42, food store license 576 Hurdle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 43, food store license 1591 South Park. Motion to send items 43 through 45 to legislation. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 46, art beneficiary agreement. Motion to approve items 46 through 56. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 57, notices of appointment, permanent provisional intent. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Oh, did I say item number? I'm sorry. Item number 57, liquor license notice 44 Prime Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 58, notices of appointments, permanent provisional intent. Thank you. Motion to send items 58 and 59 in civil service. Seconded by President Pro Tempoman. Item number 60, appoint legislative policy advisor to comment council. Motion to adopt item 60 and 61. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 62, request for hearing by Civil Service Appeals Board. Motion to receive and file items 62 and 63. Seconded by Councilmember Cullenbach. Item number 64, menthol tobacco ban concerns. Motion to send item 64 to Community Development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Petitions item number 65, special use 3006 Bailey for assembly. Motion is in item 65 through and including 72 legislation in the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appointments to commission on citizen rights and community relations. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number two, appoint press information officer two. Motion to receive and file items two and three. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number four, appoint data control clerk. Motion to approve items four through eight. Seconded by Councilmember Glumach. Item number nine, notice of appointment truck driver. Motion to receive and file items nine through 15. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Finance, item number 16, a random of agreement for local 17. Motion. Motion is to approve item 16 through and including 22. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Community Development, item number 23, letter from Kristen Parive regarding Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion to receive and file items 23 through and including 27. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Legislation item number 28, Fuster license 1320 Broadway. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 29, Fuster license 1080 East Lovejoy. Motion to recommit. Seconded by President Pro Tempulman. Item number 30, Fuster license 188 Potomac. Motion to approve 30 and 31. Seconded by Council Member Glomack. Item number 32, property manager license. Motion to recommit 32 and 33. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 34, sidewalk cafe license 478 aka 480M Wood. Motion to approve items 34 through 46 with conditions on 44 and 45. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 47, special use 183 Hodge. Motion to deny. Motion is to deny, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Mr. President. And Majority Leader Holt and Pope, you have the floor. Yes, thank you so much. Unfortunately, this needs to be denied due to the conflict with some neighborhood harmony. And unfortunately, unresolved issues with the community is just something that they could not agree on. And so unfortunately, I'm going to have to deny this application for a short term rental. Thank you, I will make sure I submit to law for the record. Motion stands. Item number 48, increased rental registration fee. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 49, direct law department to draft an ordinance amendment out of New York State property maintenance. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 50, used car dealer license 186 Warwick. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Resolutions, item number 71, 2024 Lovejoy Halloween Parade fee waiver. Motion to approve items 71 through and including 80. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Number 81, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 82, resolution requesting amendments to the City of Buffalo. Motion to adopt with the exception of Mr. Golombic who is in the negative. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. And Council Member Golombic, you have the floor. Yeah, thank you Mr. President. I would have recommended that this go to committee because I just have some questions on it. My gut feeling was a negative on it, but perhaps if I had questions answered in committee, I wouldn't be as harsh feeling as I am right now, so. Councilmember Wyatt. Mr. Chair, Mr. President, I honestly, I don't have a problem with the committee. I think to have those questions answered is not a problem. So even though I would like to adopt, I'm okay with it going to committee, asking those questions. Because at the end of the day, I think what I'm proposing is something that is really important. We are at a stage right now where we have a certain future. And that uncertain future has to be discussed publicly with the community. And so I think that what we're proposing is smart. I think for too long we have gotten the short end of the stick without having real time to look at some of the challenges that are before us. And unfortunately, we get the blame. People can come see us every week. They come to the council meeting, the committee meetings, and we get beat up. But where the issues are, people don't really have a lot of insight to. So I think for us to have those conversations and put something in place where the public has more of a role in having a conversation with the budget, especially when you have to pay for it, is right in line. So I have no problem if we want to change the motion from adopt to go to committee to have conversation, I'm fine with that. Council Member White, because both of the resolutions you filed, I mean one talks about Adjusting timeline, other one talks about adjusting process. Would you be okay with both going? Yes. Okay. So then- Motion to resend the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Motion to send items, motion to send to legislation. Items 82 and 83? Yes, please. Seconded by Council Member Rivera, and I do need a motion to revisit item number 78. Motion to visit which- Revisit 78. Motion to revisit item number 78. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me to address this local law that we'll be voting on, or that we did vote to approve. And as many folks might know in the chambers, but I'd like to tell them why we're here, is BJ Stasio, who is my constituent in the Fillmore District. And I lovingly say he puts the fight in the Fillmore District. I feel adopted by BJ and many folks in the disability community because I took my constituent up on their offer and met with them at their house and went around their neighborhood to point out issues and concerns that they see. When we met with BJ, we realized that the city needed an ADA advocate and somebody that was not just responsible for paperwork to comply with federal law. But to make sure that we are truly advocating on those that are living with disabilities in the city of Buffalo. Because after I met BJ, I went to a lot of other community meetings and I met people who are living with a disability that identify as LGBTQ. Those that are with learning disabilities. have many other identities as well as having a disability. And to realize one thing that really I will truly never forget is that the main sentiment was that they felt overlooked in society. That there's a stigma and an archaic stigma of those that are living with disabilities in the city and around the world. And so as we went on the journey to create the ADA position with i really want to thank the mayor for really working with me to make sure that that was accomplished we realized and i realized that there was a board that was really never impaneled for a multitude of reasons but it's better late than never so as we looked through the charter We saw that the way it was written really was not functional. There was too many members. It really wasn't well organized. In today's world, we want this board to be truly functional. So within the amendments, the advisory board will go from about 21 to 11 members with six people living with disabilities. Three people who serve in agencies that serve people living with disabilities and two members that are caregivers. The ADA advocate. An inclusion coordinator will serve on the board as ex officio. And it also states within this ordinance that additionally the committee may call on other city departments for assistance in the performance of its duties and it will be the duty of such departments to render such assistance to this committee reasonably required. And I read that into the record because it's important that as this board meets, that departments are charged to come help this committee work on matters that pertain to the city of Buffalo. And you know what was one startling thing during the blizzard that I learned was from one of my constituents was, imagine your neighbor knocking on a door when you are deaf or hearing impaired during an emergency. Picture if you're visually impaired and you're in a blizzard and you are also facing an emergency. Imagine being wheelchair bound and not having your care coordinator there to help you go to the bathroom for days without power in your apartment building. Those are travesties that we have to face. But yes, those are areas that will be worked on by this committee who will meet and also the appointments will be filed with this council, their minutes will be filed with the council, and any actions that they'd like this council to take will be filed with it. But ultimately, this is to bring not only awareness, but visibility to a community that is oftentimes overlooked. And so I just wanted to thank this body for adopting this immediately. I want to thank the mayor who signed this immediately to make sure that its passage was timely so that this board can meet and can be functional. And I'd also like to thank the ADA advocate, Brittany Montgomery, who is a fellow 2014 Buff State alumni with me and is somebody that is living with a disability who works in the mayor's office. And to me, why it's so important is I want people to realize and to look at Brittany and to look at BJ and to look that you can have a disability, you can be different, and you can one day work in City Hall. And I think that's super important because often times people living with disabilities are cast that they're not employable. Or they have these old age stigmas that need to go away. And the way that you do that is not only by doing the hard work, but by being visible so people can see you and see your representation. So I will conclude my remarks and I want to thank you Mr. President for allowing our ADA advocate to address the council. My name is Brittany Montgomery. I'm the AJ advocate for the city of Buffalo. Miss gave a wonderful speech. Can't really talk that out, but I just want to basically support what he said. We do have a need for advisory for people with disabilities. We do have a very large disability population in Buffalo, but as he said, they do be overlooked and the end goal of this disability is to ensure that the city of Buffalo is accessible with ADA laws. from public services to private buildings all that stuff we want to make sure that everyone is equal accommodations and accessibility for everyone so that's why i'm here in city hall to try to work with the city and then with the committee we want to try to reach outside the city a little bit to try to make sure that everything and everyone is um and commenting for everyone with disabilities. Also want to raise awareness for people with disabilities and how we can do everything that anyone else can do. As long as we have the accommodation, we just need a little extra help here and there. But we can still do everything, so that's the end goal. of this committee i'm looking forward to it i've been working on this since i started here last june may i'm looking forward to making the changes meeting the new people and making buffalo it's about the city thank you thank you motion stands and um i do need another motion to revisit item number 48 out of legislation Motion to revisit item 48. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck, that was my mistake, it's an adopt, not an approval. I'm sorry? It will be an adoption, not an approval. Motion to adopt. So motion will rescind the previous motion. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, committee on civil service will be Tuesday, July 2nd, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, July 2nd, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, July 2nd, 2024 at 1 PM. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, July 2nd, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members, announcements for your district? Councilwoman Eberhardt. Thank you, Council President. I just want to remind our Madison District residents that there will not be a Madison District breakfast for Saturday, July 3rd. We will be going on our field trip to Tiff Nature Preserve. If you need more information, just call my office, 716-851-5145. Thank you. Majority Leader. Yes, thank you so much Mr. Council President. I'd like to remind everybody in the Ellicott District that due to a day of service for the city council, which will be the first of its kind, our office will be closed on Friday as most of my office will be working to rebuilding some houses. in the Mastin District with my colleagues. I'd like to thank all of you all and your staff and those in the council staff as well for participating. This is a big deal. Building some houses and working together in our community. I want to thank my colleagues for that. Also on Saturday, the 29th, we will be having a youth extravaganza. At school six located at 414 South Division where we have some young entrepreneurs who will be selling their wares. There'll be some youth vendors, music, face painting, food, etc. So please come and support our youth vendors from 12 until 3 PM. It's free and open to the public. Doors will open at noon. with some special guests, et cetera. So we ask you to do that. In addition to that, Ellicott residents, I'm going to announce it again right before, but the city reassessment for the Ellicott district meeting is on July the 18th at 5.30 PM at the downtown branch of public library. Please be there 5.30 PM, July 18th. Giving you a heads up now. You will hear it again before it happens. Thank you. No other announcements? Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.