That's going to committee. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski.
 Present. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pearl Tim Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the right allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic of which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. L. Warner. It's a joy today to be able to recognize the good work that Eight Days of Hope and its president, CEO, and founder, Steve Tiber, have done to our city over the last few years. I know that every council member is excited.
 has either enjoyed the blessing of eight days of hope in your district or is wrestling with other council members to be the next one up. And I was with Steve this morning and said to him, I want to make sure that we get a chance to pray a blessing on what's about to happen. Matthew chapter 25 is one of those scriptures that many of you may be somewhat familiar with. The
 King says to those on his right, come blessed by my father, take your inheritance. And down 35, I was hungry. You gave me something to eat. Thirsty. Gave me something to drink. A stranger invited me in. Needed clothes. You clothed me. Sick. You looked after me. In prison, you came to visit me. And the righteous answer, when did we see a hungry, feed you, thirsty, give you something to drink, et cetera, et cetera. And he said, tell you the truth.
 Whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me. I'm excited that Steve comes into our community to do the very thing that Matthew 25 is declaring and talking about. And for Council Member Mitch Nowakowski, who will be hosting in the Fillmore District, along with Erie County Legislator Howard Johnson. This is an exciting time. When I talked to Steve this morning and asked him,
 He said they have 1,500 volunteers coming from 31 states. Couple of years ago, I actually got to talk to a couple who came here for their honeymoon. They got married. First eight days of their two weeks, they spent working in our city, and the last six days in Niagara Falls. My wife said that's more commitment than she would have had to anybody helping a neighborhood, but that's the commitment that this couple had.
 So as these volunteers come, they're choosing to have summer vacation in Buffalo to rebuild Fillmore District and to make it a better place. So I told Steve we'd be praying. I said, especially for what? He said for their safety and for them to get projects done, which means weather needs to click into place for their time. Would you bow together with me in prayer? Fathers, we read the scripture. Our hearts are moved. Our hearts are touched by how much what we do for others reflects...
 on our commitment and love for you. That Lord, a love of the King in Matthew 25 isn't an abstract, it's concrete love. It's love in action. Lord, thanks for Steve and Charmaine Tiber. Thanks for the crew. Thanks for the ministry that responds all over the country wherever there's a disaster, but in his backyard, he said, I want to do something I've never done before. I want to
 to a district, Common Council district a year for nine years. Lord, thank you for the blessing and favor that it's brought already on University and Mastin and now July 16th to the 23rd, expanding into Fillmore District. Thanks for all the hard lifting that Council Member Nowakowski has done to make this happen. And thank you Father, you slid your shoulders alongside the Council Member to make it happen in such wonderful ways.
 Lord, we pray for volunteers as they're coming from over half the states in the union to Buffalo to work to make our city better. Lord, I pray that you'd give them great grace and favor health and safety. Lord, I pray for weather to be good as they're completing the projects. And Lord, for each project that needs to click into place, that's gonna be a massive blessing to family after family, neighbor after neighbor, we thank you, Father,
 We welcome in your servants to come. And Lord, even now we slide our hands under theirs, that the lift will be light and the input and impact maximum in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner, Council Members Memorials, Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and our prayers the family of Kathleen Majorey. Kathleen is the mother of Pam Majorey, our deputy city clerk. She passed away last week. She is the wife of Mike.
 majority of 54 years and along with Pamela also has three other children, Mike Jr., Heather and Todd, a collection of grandchildren and great-grandchildren as well. She will be sorely missed by us. Again, I ask that we please keep the majority family in our thoughts and prayers.
 Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking for the prayers for Anthony Wiley. He was a member of the Buffalo Promise Neighborhood Task Force. I'm a father. He was very he's very involved with troop. I think 139, 32 years. He was supporting the young people and he suddenly passed the last week.
 And I know that his family is hurting right now because they were away, I believe, celebrating his birthday. And so this gentleman who was a real giant in our community and someone who really, really cared about our kids. I pray for his family, his children during this difficult time. Thank you.
 We also remember a young lady by the name of Valeria Marrera, who was funeralized yesterday from the True Bethel Church, 18 years old, missing for several days. Allegedly, she witnessed the murder of her father before her disappearance and then found in a shallow grave in the city of Buffalo.
 Her mom was able to come in from out of town and other family members. So we remember that family also. And hearing another, we remember those who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and the freedom for others since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 We have one special presentation by Councilmember Golombek. El, you could come down with your better half. I'm not sure you're gonna hold me up anyway. Well, welcome to the Common Council for something very different than you're normally here for. Usually I see you and you're running around with the microphone and we're trying to figure out who you've gotten this time. Well, I'm here for that note.
 But all kidding aside, when I found out that Al was retiring a couple of weeks ago, I got in touch with staff and said, we need to do something for him. And I know we're supposed to be objective and unbiased as council members, but Al was always one of my favorite people to deal with. I think he exemplified journalism in Buffalo. When I would get a phone call from him, I never cringed because I knew that he was going to be fair.
 And every single time that I worked with him, I was always impressed that he knew an awful lot about the item. Never as much as I did because it was my district, but it was pretty close and I was impressed. And his wife, Michelle, was saying earlier that he's up until late at night, 2, 3 in the morning, searching for things on the computer. I'm a night owl too, so maybe that's what made me like you subliminally even more.
 But I think that you have served the Buffalo community very, very well in your years here. And I didn't realize that you said you started roughly the same time that I got elected. So it made me feel a little bit older than normal. But you were right on a journalism school.
 But I just want to commend Al on behalf of myself and the rest of the council. And we have a little proclamation for you and I will read the last therefore. We members of the City of Buffalo Common Council
 Hereby commend Al Waters for his hard work and determining efforts while serving the city of Buffalo's constituents and extend our wishes for a happy and healthy retirement. And on behalf of my colleagues and myself, congratulations. Well, I'm gonna try to make it as brief as possible. Thanks a lot, Joe. Council President Friggen.
 You know, it was almost 28 years ago when I came here from Chicago, and one of the first things that I learned was, oh, so that's why they call it Buffalo Wings. I had no idea. The second thing that I learned was, Buffalo is not a suburb of New York City. And as most of us here know, unfortunately, there are folks down in New York City and Albany that still haven't figured that out yet.
 I also learned that Buffalo is a city of good neighbors and the Common Council pretty much exemplifies that city of good neighbors, because in the course of doing my consumer stories here in Buffalo, I can say that I have talked with every single one of the council members here who have helped their constituents out on a consumer issue. And actually speaking of neighborhoods,
 the thing that I'm here to cover. But I can say I appreciate this city and Western New York embracing myself and my family. My wife, Michelle, who's made a fantastic sacrifice over all these years.
 I'm just so proud that I have spent the last 28 years here. It's been the highlight of my career, the highlight of my adult working life, and again, thank you very much. If I may, I would just like to thank all of you for the respect that you have shown to my husband. He has worked very hard. He loves this community.
 And this is our home now. We never thought that we would be here this long. This is home. Thank you. Oh, good. Okay. Are you covering the story today too? We can have a four-minute discussion.
 and obviously it's going to be shorter I don't think in my time here I've had a reporter that retired and covered the story on the same day but
 but I have the advantage of looking behind Al and his wife's hand on his back and just patting him and the love that she has shown and the wonderful. I don't know, Al, her speech was a little bit better than yours, so thank you for bringing her today. I can't argue with that. You better not because you get better be at home with her all day. Mr. President.
 Councilmember White. And if I can, you know, thank you, Councilmember Golombek for doing that. I had the opportunity to talk to Al a couple of days ago, and he told me his final day was coming up. And then I just said to him, you know how much we appreciate him, and how he's a living
 And he said, I don't know if I can live with that. I'm like, well, you are. And so his wife was just telling him a story that anytime they go any place, people wanna sit down and have a conversation. They actually physically pull up a chair to sit with him. But I really appreciate his steadfast effort to help those in this community. And it's a hallmark of, will be a hallmark of his legacy. So many people will tell me
 when they got a problem who they're gonna call they're gonna call al waters i'm gonna call al and so we appreciate um what he's done and we wish you very well for you and your wife um for the extended period that you're staying here in the city of buffalo thank you so much thank you all righty on a motion by mr revere second by mr scanlon the minutes stated meeting held on june
 are approved. Council members, late files are before you, including and just so that the public knows that we received one last file from the administration. It is not showing on the agenda because we just received it, but it is the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees
 basically the local 264 contract. It will be published on our website on the city's website after the meeting, but because we just received it, it's not in the agenda. It is now being handwritten into the agenda as item 82.
 And because it is coming from the mayor's office is not technically a late file because the mayor's office can file right up until the time of the meeting just so that everybody
 All right. All right. Are we going from the top? From the top. From the top. Item number one, appoint commissioner of administration, finance, policy, and urban affairs. Motion to send civil service. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number two, amend report of cell 41 and 47 Barthel. Motion to approve items two through eight. Second by council member Noah Kouski.
 Item number 9, transfer of 24 properties to Benelit. Motion to send the civil service. Second by CD. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 10, cash flow report for May 2022. Motion to send finance items 10-15. Second by Council Member White. Item number 16, change order engine for temporary structure. Motion to approve item 16,
 Through 26. Second by Council Member Bowling. Item number 27, a point account clerk typist. Motion to send the civil service items 27-30. Second by President Pro Temsken. Item number 31, drug asset forfeiture funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Buengo. Item number 32, permission to enter into a contract with Endeavor Health Services. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Feer.
 Item number 33, request for vehicles. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 34, appoint fire captain. Motion to send civil service items 34 through 39. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, food store license 490 Connecticut.
 Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 41, appoint print and mail room supervisor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Farrell. Item number 42, proposed agreement with Bencare Payroll and HR Solutions. Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Farrell. Item number 43, liquor license notice.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 44, appoint supervisor of maintenance to. Motion to send to civil service items 44 and 45. By Council Member Golombet.
 Item number 46, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 46 and 47. Second by council member, Noah Costa. Miscellaneous, item number 48, petition for trailblazing signs to honor Crystal Bowlin-Burton. Motion to send the CD, items 48 and 49. Second by council member, Bowlin. Item number 50, bicycle pedestrian advisory board, 4, 5, 22 meeting minutes.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 51, accident doesn't lead to solutions. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Furlough. Item number 52, petition in support of 501 High Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Tempstown. Item number 53, concerns hazardous condition of 114 and 115 Wicker. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Norcoz. Item number 54, concerns of zone and map amendment at 127 Clayton. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Golomba.
 Item number 55, concerns with slow roll. Motion to send the CD items 55 and 56. I'm a councilman Bowman. Item number 57, concerns with American Rescue Plan. Motion to send to finance. I'm a councilman Bowman.
 Petitions, item number 58, special use, 1239, aka 1249, hurdle. Motion to send legislation to the Planning Board, items 58 through 64. Second by Council Member Noa Kost. Submission list, civil service, item number 1, appoint account clerk typist. Motion is to approve items 1 and 2. Second by the Majority Leader. Item number 3, status change pumping plant operator permanent. Motion is to receive and file items 3 through and including 19. Second by Majority Leader.
 Finance, item number 20, approved subrecipient agreement with BMHA. Mr. Chair, Mr. President, we have been in conversation with the administration on this item, and I'm going to do what we agreed to do. I'm going to be the bigger person, and I'm going to agree to what we agreed to.
 But I'm going to put conditions in here. And I expect the conditions to be followed because I'm doing what we agreed we would do, that we would not be fair. And so we agreed on one thing with eight days of hope. And from my colleagues, I agree to this. And I want to agree to that because that's the right thing to do. I want to be honorable. But I want to put the conditions in before we approve it, if that's okay with you.
 You can offer the conditions and then we have to decide whether the majority will vote for the conditions. It's not a district item. Yeah. It's a council item. Understood. I'm requesting a town hall meeting within 30 days and I put a date of July 20th with the residents of Kenfield Langfield. I asked for the executive director to meet quarterly with the Kenfield Langfield Tenant Council.
 I also asked for a revised policy regarding tenant lockouts to be filed with the Common Council. I asked for a written response to outstanding tenant complaints that were filed with my office that he has in his email. I asked for a ledger that speaks to the $3.6 million that they're asking for to pay and was outstanding owed by tenants.
 detailed quarterly reports and these were reports that we had already asked for with ARP fundings that we will get quarterly reports on how the money is used. And a written summary of how the process will be initiated to take care of the past due balances in which he said that he would meet with each one of the persons who owe. And I also asked for reimbursement of tenants whose cards were reported, told to the University District Office without notice
 Again, as I stated on the record, we had numerous conversations with Mr. Brown, and he never responded to address those issues to fix them on behalf of the tenants. And a list of the board members in a minute for the last six meetings.
 Council member Scanlon. Just one quick question. Could the council member clarify the quarterly updates? What were they on? I didn't hear what you said. That's all.
 You mean the quarterly meetings asking the quarterly updates? No, well, we asked that they were whatever whatever ARP money is funded for whatever entity that they will file quarterly reports of how that money has been spent and used. Yes, no, I just didn't hear exactly what you said that was all. And just a question on the July 30 of date because I know he had gone on record saying he would meet Have you talked to him about that specific date? No,
 My only concern about that, because I'm just hearing these, is setting a date. And then if then the executive director cannot make it, that it would seem as if, you know, we set a date for his schedule. So if we can approve it, and these are what I'm requesting, okay? So it's not a condition of we'll just approve it, okay? So let's lay it out. So we're going to approve the item. Yeah. Okay.
 you're just setting on the record the request that you have already made. Yes. Is everybody clear? All we're approving right now, not this list of conditions,
 These are conditions he's putting as an individual on the record. And from what I'm being told from the administration, he was willing to do the town hall meeting and all of the things that were just asked for. So the only thing just to be clear, we're voting on is the item. Yeah. So nothing attached to it. Councilman Rivera, Mr. Chairman, the policy of
 letting people in their apartments. There were some concerns that we have to talk through in certain cases, there may be orders of protections, there may be domestic violence, but those are things we can talk in council or privately to make sure we have a policy that gives them the discretion in certain situations where they can't because of domestic problems or orders of protection. So just to bring a little more clarity
 As to some of the conditions that we're setting and certainly there has to be more discussion to make sure that they have a little bit of discretion in letting people in their apartments.
 Yeah, and I know that's come up before. Who do you let in? Who don't you if there's a domestic and then creating to ensure that the tenants know what that policy is so that if they have an order of protection against somebody that they present that to BMHA so that BMHA would know we can't let, you know, the boyfriend in because, you know,
 or the husband in because of that. So that'll go forward and you all will talk about that and everybody who's involved in that, I think is important. Councilor Miskin. Thank you. I think it's extremely important that we are working alongside the BMHA.
 One thing I do want the public to understand, we are the council district representatives, and obviously we hear the vast majority of the complaints, but the council cannot set the policy. So one thing I do want to ensure is that the executive director, the BMHA is coming here in good faith, negotiating with us, but we cannot actually, I just want the public to know that the council itself cannot set policy, it's an independent organization.
 But I think that everyone on this council is on the same page.
 when it comes to working alongside Mr. Brown to set the proper policy for everyone at the BMHA and all those living quarters so that everything is on the up and up, everyone's being taken care of and the BMHA is flourishing. I agree. I think that clarification is very, very important that it's working together. And what this item is basically is because there are millions of dollars of rent due from the BMHA
 Persons who live in BMHA, and if this didn't move forward from the American Rescue Plan, is that where it's coming from? They would receive notices of eviction next month. And so to avoid that, and these monies were put into place to help those who were most affected by COVID.
 Um, and so I think that this is the right thing to do. I think we, I don't think any, and I'm not speaking for everybody. You could tell me, you could just say, Pritchett, no, don't, that's not what I believe. I don't think anybody on this council wants to see some of the
 poorest people, some of them in our community. Of course, we've got to dig in and find out what happened and why those things. But at the end of the day, I don't want to see hundreds of people get an eviction notice, but we do want to see things get better. This is a part of government and today I think it works. Council Member Golombi. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to agree with my colleagues and yourself.
 Some of the concerns that you brought up are the concerns that I have. I believe I have the second most members of BMHA in my district. I have three large developments and two smaller developments in my district. And when I was first approached about what was potentially going to happen, I thought, oh my gosh, if 10% of the people in BMHA in my district, that's going to be 70 to 100 people.
 that are going to be getting potential eviction notices. And they may call BMHA first, they may not call BMHA first, but I'll guarantee you that the first or second call is going to be to district, you know, council offices. And I think that one of the things that we need to do is to help, and I've tried to do this in the developments in my district, is to let people know what we can and what we can't do. Because a lot of times we get the
 activists and others that come to us and say, we want this, and it's an authority. You know, we are limited. We can't set policy over there. However, you know, I've been very, very fortunate, whether it was Mr. Brown or anybody else that works over there, to work closely with them when we've had problems in my developments.
 So I would hope that there would be something that would still stay in committee so that we could talk about this. Because I think I do think in one regard we need to hold their feet to the fire and another regard we need to realize, and we need to let residents realize that we can't make them do anything, you know, because of their being an authority.
 Last but certainly not least, I'm just so thankful that we are approving this because these are people that, as you mentioned, are probably the most vulnerable in all of our districts.
 And these are the people that we would be working with. I mean, I was just imagining getting 50 phone calls next Tuesday, you know, asking how we were going to help them to stay in their BMHA development. And because of us voting this way, that will not happen. I want to thank all of my colleagues for being on board there. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. And this money is coming out of the American Rescue Plan. And like my colleague, Majority Leader Rivera said a few meetings ago, is this money is meant to, it's called rescue. It's to rescue people and to help people who are facing tough times. And in my district, I account for about $900,000, which out of this 2 million in my district, and I want folks in Perry, Marine Drive, Steninski Gardens, Carolina Street, and those BMHA complexes to
 that help is on the way and that this funding will be utilized to address any of the short changes that they have. Like you said, that these are the most vulnerable population that we have in the city of Buffalo and housing is at an all time premium in the city of Buffalo. And these are the folks that we really need to take care of.
 But I also want to, you know, in a cursory note, you know, explain that we do have a few funding items in American Release or Rescue Plan and Committee and that we're talking about in a resolution that we're, you know, working to amend with the administration. But I want to also put the pressure on, we got to come up with these, and we got to get the money out on the street. So we all need to work together, put differences aside, and do the work on the behalf of the people.
 Does anybody know how many residents could have this is affecting? I can't remember the number. I was told about 4,000, but I'm not clear. That's just about 4,000. Huge. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
 I had said before that this money was intended to get out to the people, and that's what we're doing here today. We are currently meeting with the administration on the rest of the American Rescue Package, and our goal is to see that money flowing. And I think the administration goal is as well.
 We're going to recess in about a month and hopefully we'll be able to get more of this, these funds flowing out to what they were intended to get to. So we're hopeful to sit down with the administration hammer out some things and be back here before the Common Council to approve other funding items so I want to thank the administration. Council member Bowman, who is our representative, and the Finance Committee for working together to get this money flowing. Thank you very much.
 It has been approved and seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 And Mr. Chair, if I can just say the last thing. I want to thank, again, Majority Leader, thank Councilmember Bowman. He is in a difficult position many times, and we had a lot of conversation with this. And I appreciate his steadiness in just trying to make it happen on behalf of all of us. So, again, thank you, Councilmember, because we had some very good conversation about what we need to do and how we need to work together. He was a big part of that, so I appreciate the conversation. I appreciate your...
 Your, your, the way you approached it and I think it's okay. Not I don't think I know it's okay not always to agree and get to a place that what's best for the people. That's it. Thank you, sir. Yep. Next item. Item 21 capital debt service fund schedule. I think this was approved. Yeah. Was this was, I don't know what was the motion majority leader in the caucus.
 Capital Fund Debt Service Fund Schedule. Was that marked? Approve. Approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Community Development, item number 22, 887 Michigan Street. This item is open. Mr. President, is Michigan allocate? This is approved. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Skagg. Item number 23, reported cell 154, Keystone.
 This item is open. It's in the Lovejoy district. Sorry, which item was this? 23. 154 Keystone. Oh, that is a motion to approve. And what about 24?
 560 Walden. Yes, I'll approve as well. Okay, motion is to approve items 23 and 24. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 25, reported sale portion of 58 Emerson. Motion to recommit items 25 and 26. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 27, designated developer agreement 477 Mohawk. This item is open as well. That's an approve. That's a motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Friar-Lettles.
 Legislation item number 28, full store license 797 Broadway. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions to be filed by Council Member Nowakowski. Who's on the second?
 item number 29 food store license 635 east elevator motion to recommit second by councilmember wingo as the floor mr chair thank you um we have situations in many of our districts where owners because of issues that the district has had with certain stores they move ownership
 And I know this is not just happening in Madison district, but I, quite frankly, I'm tired of the subterfuge. So this is going to be recommitted back to committee because until we can ascertain as to why we have owners all of a sudden giving their stores to other owners just so that we can't, you know, hold them accountable.
 we are not going to approve their licenses. And this is the reason why this store has not been approved of their license. Madison District has over 45 food stores, these deli stores, and almost half of them did not get approved for some of these seemingly nefarious activities. So we want to make sure that the community understands that we are not tolerating all of this smoke and mirror stuff
 anymore than we have in the past. And this is just a result of it. So folks are wondering why stores, doors are not open in Mastin. It's because of these types of situations where we can't get a hold on who the new owner is and we can't hold the current owner accountable because they weren't quote unquote there when it happened.
 We're going to continue to do this in our districts. We're going to continue to make sure that the people get what they are asking for of which they deserve, which are quality, clean, safe food stores. Again, there is no grocery store in Maston District. There is no major grocery chain in the Maston District. We depend on some of these food stores to offer
 milk, egg, cheese, bread. So we need them to do what's right by the community and stop all of this swapping of businesses and make sure that the council member can answer questions the community has as to why they're not being compliant. So with that being said, Mr. Chair, thank you. The motion is to send us back to committee because we will be speaking on these topics in the very near future. Thank you. I have one more question.
 I just want not to opine in somebody else's district, but this is also a similar problem that I face in the Fillmore District. And what we ended up dealing with is we set conditions, we respond to the needs of these deli stores and how they are working in harmony with neighborhoods. But it's oftentimes what they do is they try to usurp the council member and this council when whenever we set conditions. So we set conditions, we move forward, and then you can
 count like clockwork in two weeks, you get a new ownership. So then it gets in. What they don't know is you get another bite at the apple. The council does to set conditions so that they can work in harmony with the community. And I wanted anyone to know that you can, it's clear as day that the council understands what they're doing and to please refrain from it. Next item. Item number 30, food store license, 2227 Genesee Street.
 motion to approve with conditions 30 and 31. Move with conditions that will be filed by the district council members. Second by Councilman Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. I did just want to read those conditions in real quick. It's no alcohol, no tobacco. And then I filed with the clerk the hours and just to a similar court as the Mastin and Fillmore districts just mentioned. Okay.
 My residents made it very clear to me and my block club representatives that they want to have a say in the stores that are in their community. So when I'm approving these licenses, we're holding community meetings. This is going to be a great addition to our district. It's a grocery store. They're going to have poultry, a juicery. So that's what I'm looking for from store owners moving forward is what value are you bringing to our community? We'll be very conscious of that in the Lovejoy District. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Item number 32, petition to stop Oviatt Center installation in Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member White. Item number 33, ordinance amendment chapter 316, peddling and soliciting article 11, mobile business. Motion to approve items 33, 34, 35 with conditions, 36, 37, 38 with conditions and 39.
 All of the conditions will be filed by district council members, second by Council Member Wingo. On item 33, this then for all mobile businesses, they will now have to receive a permit that will come before this council. So whether you're selling hats in a van or you are selling shoes out of your trunk,
 you will have to have a permit now. That way the residents are able to call if something goes wrong or right. Very rarely do residents call when it goes right, but when it goes wrong and we're able to track down who's who,
 It also makes it fair, and I know Councilmember Golombek led the, I was here for the food truck. This one didn't go like the food truck thing. Thank you, Councilmember Golombek, for doing all that work. And that was very controversial. And I remember because I just bought a food truck. The church had just bought a food truck. We weren't selling, but we were giving away food, but we still...
 where they're doing that time. This makes it fair, it makes it transparent. They'll have to come before us to get those license, Councilman Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, this is just one more step that we're using to ensure
 and guarantee this transparency for the contribution of the community. I appreciate the fact that now the mobile businesses have to come before this council because you missed one.
 so that banks can't just plot down these huge ATM machines on sidewalks. So that being said, thank you for this resolution, Mr. Chair, but I also wanna just speak to item 34, if that's okay. Absolutely. So again, this is just another step in the process so that the community is aware of what's being erected in their community on their streets, residential even. I know that we do need variances for height
 And some of these things are going up without going before the community because they own the property. So whatever the law says now, there's a step where they have to come before this body, which gives the community an opportunity to speak on how they feel about looking up and seeing a 5G Wi-Fi tower on the end or corner of their street. Thank you. Absolutely. And I think that some neighborhoods are more vulnerable to that.
 Um, and I don't think again, people don't want to wake up and something is going on. And then it's like, well, why didn't you all tell us? Cause they didn't have to come before this body, which now because of, uh, this ordinance that, uh, the ordinance amendment that you've written, uh, they will. And I think that's wise. So thank you for that.
 Item number 40, special use 664 of Fillmore for electronic message center. Motion to deny. Motion to deny, second by Councilmember Nowakowski. You already filed your reasons for denial. It has been filed for the record.
 Resolutions. Item number 65, fee waiver for Newburgh Black Party. Motion to approve items 65 through 69. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 70, calling on New York State to halt closure of Broadway Clinic. Motion to adopt items 70 and 71. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Where this clinic is currently on Miller and Broadway is the Broadway Bailey neighborhood. And I could argue, we all could argue that the hardest hit neighborhood in the city of Buffalo is from Memorial Drive to Bailey and the streets of Miller, Titus, Ashley, Crop, Peck.
 are some of the most disenfranchised and hurting people in the city of Buffalo. And a lot of folks in the neighborhood rely on that clinic. So I'm confused as to why we're halting a clinic where it's in the most distressed area where the residents need it and how you can just make a unilateral decision to close without any dialogue with the neighborhood. You don't call the district council member. Those are big problems. So before...
 the state entity makes any unilateral decision for permanent closure, I would like them to reach out so that we can discuss how we can also address the needs of this neighborhood and the wellbeing of them. Because a lot of times folks in the neighborhood use that clinic because the folks that are in that clinic,
 know them. They treat them like family. So we need to call on our state officials to address this and be able to come to the table and figure out that once you leave, it's not forever. And what are you going to replace it with? Because this neighborhood is not going to be left behind or counted out, at least not on my watch. And I need to be able to
 bring folks together to figure out how else we can bring services to that neighborhood. And just on a general thought, since I have the floor, it appears to me at times that mental health services always want to go to neighborhoods that seem to be or have the preference of the worker and not the exact need. I mean, you come down Broadway, you can see the need to have on-street mental health services.
 These are the resources that we need to amp up our neighborhoods to address those concerns. And that's what I'm hoping to do. Thank you. Thank you. Item number 72, Ellicott Mall Reunion Fee Waiver. Motion to approve items 72 and 74. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. 72 and 73. 72 and 73. Correction for the record, 72 and 73, so noted.
 Item number 74 local law intro to men Council boundaries, motion is sent to legislation second by Council member Columbia. Item number 75 honoring our African American military heroes and Cheryl's event fee waiver motion to approve by Council member why. Item number 76 ordinance amendment chapter 479 no parking and bicycle lanes motion to send to legislation second by Council member Columbia who has the floor.
 floor. Thank you, Mr. President. This one I think took Councilmember Rivera and I by surprise, I don't want to put words in his mouth, but when they first put these bike lanes in, I think both of us were making phone calls to get people ticketed who were parking illegally in the bike lanes.
 And common sense would dictate that this is a bike lane. It's for bikes or perhaps people, but not for cars to be there. And all of a sudden we realized that there was nothing on the books that technically made it illegal for a car.
 to park there without some sort of signage there. You know, common sense would dictate that you don't park there. I've actually talked to people in my district who are parking there and they say, I can park wherever I want, I don't see a sign. That's okay. But this piece of legislation that we've been working on will,
 hopefully rectify that situation. And I hope that once it is approved, that parking violations and police go out there and just start nailing people that are parking there, because I've seen people that are on their bikes that have had to get off the bike or jump the curb to get away from, you know, the bike lanes are something that are near and dear to my heart, because, you know, I had been
 talking to Commissioner Stepniak and Commissioner Finn for years, and Julie Felser, I believe, when she was here, about doing these in the city of Buffalo. Because I used to be, I liked it in the old days when I was the only bicyclist on the council, but now I got Wingo and Faroletto that are riding their bikes all the time, and they look at more than I do. But that being said, there needs to be, in my opinion, a dedicated bike lane, because there's a lot of places that are
 quite frightening to be riding your bike. And Councilmember Nowakowski and I were at an event a couple of Fridays ago when the young women were hit on Michigan Avenue. And one of them sadly died. And
 know something needs to be done to make our city more pedestrian more bicycle friendly you know than it currently is and i know that there's criticism out there about our city uh in the winter time and so on and so forth well i think i shared this story with you and i will once again years ago when i was on vacation up in montreal i was talking to a uh a
 retired police officer. And I was asking him about their bike paths that they had there. And he said, they started putting them in in the late eighties and the early nineties. And I said, well, was there opposition? He said, oh my gosh. He goes, yes. He goes, we're built on a mountain, Mount Royal. He goes, we get more snow, more rain that turns into ice storms, so on and so forth. And he goes, and we were all opposed to it. And he looked at me sort of sheepishly and said, and I was wrong.
 He goes, even to this day, during the winter months, almost 11% of people who work in downtown Montreal use their bikes, unless it's like horrible, you know, weather. I was shocked at that number, but I was more shocked when I would be walking around the downtown and roughly between 3.30 and 5.30, you had to be so aware of the bicyclists.
 more so than the cars. I mean, for living in Buffalo, I'm always looking for cars, you know, when I'm crossing the street or whatnot. And all of a sudden I could not believe the number of people that were riding their bikes. And it wasn't just, you know, the young hipster type people, it was a miscellany of ages.
 I think that ultimately this is what needs to happen in the city of Buffalo. I think that we're heading in that direction. I think it's gonna take a while, just like in cities like Montreal. And you know, the police officer said I was wrong. I think 10 years from now, 15 years from now, as we get more bike lanes, some of the people, the honest people will say, you know what? I was wrong for opposing these 10, 15 years ago. But I'm just so in the,
 excited that this is hopefully going to be within, will be law within the next couple of council meetings. So thank you very much. Thank you. And I've asked like a million times, some people are just not educated on, like I've said to Justin before,
 Some people don't know even like, can I turn when I'm turning if there's one lane. So we had asked for them to put it on the access channel like some lessons before it went to Siberia, and nobody really watched it now so it wouldn't make a difference, but somewhere in there hopefully there's some education. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. This council, I know maybe 10 years ago past complete streets that provided for bike lanes throughout the city wherever they can fit.
 Shortly after that, the state even followed suit and did a complete street. These bike lanes were intended for cyclists, including the protective bike lanes that are on Niagara Street. And what we see is vehicles parked there. And this legislation for now deals with vehicles that are parked. At some point, we're also going to try to deal with vehicles that are parked on the
 are driving on them, not just parking. One is a moving violation, one is a parking violation. We're not dealing with the moving violation just yet, but that's something we're working with law department along with council member Golombek to make sure we strengthen that as well. So we want those people that are parking
 and driving on these bike lanes, including the three-wheelers and four-wheel motorcycles that are now driving on these bike lanes. They're not allowed to. They shouldn't be allowed to. So we're going to tighten that up even just a little further with our Corporation Council, and that will be forthcoming to this Common Council at some point. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Right. Thank you. Next item. Item number 77, renaming the East Side of East Buffalo. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We all know this has become quite the topic here in the City of Buffalo, particularly the East Side of Buffalo.
 In my desire to reflect the will of the people whose block clubs and association meetings that I attend, we drafted a resolution with the title renaming the Eastside East Buffalo.
 I think it'd be better suited for us moving forward with this conversation to amend this resolution to say, referring to Eastside, to the Eastside as East Buffalo. Because what we've learned is that there are very strong feelings on both sides.
 And we want to hear everyone's opinion and their sentiments on how they feel about this new referencing to East Buffalo or of East Buffalo. Now, there are a few things I just want to highlight. I don't want this discussion or conversation to be hijacked
 by folks who want to make this about gentrification. This is not about gentrification. This is not about some feel good ploy for folks who are buying up properties in East Buffalo on the East side of the city of Buffalo to try to rebrand and rename the East side so they can feel better about it. This literally came about out of a block club meeting that I attended where one of my sweet block club members said, I heard East Buffalo and I liked that.
 I simply replied, okay, I'll look into it. Went to another block club, same thing. Third was association meeting, same thing. So we talked about it at the district stakeholders meeting. Everyone was in favor of the idea of referencing the East side of Buffalo as
 East Buffalo. The strong sentiment was during these conversations was that we don't want to be relegated to a side of something. We want to be part of Buffalo and referenced as such, like other parts of Buffalo. When we refer to the north side of Buffalo, we say North Buffalo. When we refer to the south side of Buffalo, we refer to as South Buffalo. But then there's East's
 of Main Street, which is referred to colloquially as the East Side. And their sentiment, their desire was to be East Buffalo. And that is the spirit behind why this resolution was written. Now there are folks who are going to try and change the narrative
 This literally was an honest approach and or appeal for the east side of Buffalo. After 514, we saw the national coverage of the east side being presented in a negative light. It carried a negative connotation. It meant that if you go to the east side of Buffalo, there will be violence. If you go to the east side of Buffalo, there will be poverty.
 We are still, regardless of what happens in this area of the city or what some of the makeup or characteristics are of the side of the city, still part of Buffalo. And the folks who I've spoken with who attend their block club meetings every month will come to the mass and district stakeholders meetings.
 every month, they all share this same sentiment. This is an appeal of inclusivity. This is an appeal to ensure that when folks see Buffalo, they see four sides of Buffalo, all caught together.
 Buffalo. And I don't want anyone to think this is a replacement of, this is not a replacement of, this is a referencing to, and I just want to say, if I can, just thank the media so far for referring to the east side of Buffalo as East Buffalo.
 Every person that I have spoken to that is in these meetings, I've spoken to the mothers, I call it these the mothers of our district. And one mother said, oh, I love it. I think it's absolutely wonderful. And everyone she's spoken to share her same spirit. But we want to hear from all of the Eastside residents. This is not about your identity. This is about the mindset.
 of people who hear East Buffalo and don't connect it with all of the negativity that it has been connected to in the past. I was speaking with other council members, and one word kind of set with me, which is pejorative.
 East Buffalo to become a pejorative. And Eastside has become something of an epithet because when you say this term or use this moniker, people tend to think of all of the negative aspects of this side of the city.
 We know, those of us who are living on the East Side, we know what we've gone through. We have a sense of pride in the East Side of Buffalo. We have a pride in knowing, yes, it was difficult, but we're still here. We held it down.
 We didn't go anywhere and look at us now. We're still here, still holding down the East side. We are going to continue to use the term East side but we appreciate the media referencing this side of the city as piracy.
 Pirate of Buffalo when it's called East Buffalo. We look at it as a badge of honor. When somebody say, where are you from? Those of us in our community from the East Side. And we know what that means in many different ways. There are nuances in the other ways that we communicate. When we say East Side, we know what we mean. I was just telling somebody the other day, I have a sweatshirt made by Steve-O that says East Side versus everybody.
 because we know that we have this sense of resiliency. We are a strong people and we know that nothing is going to destroy us. We will be stronger because of it. So I welcome this discourse on East Side and East Buffalo. So I'm going to take a page out of your book, Council President, and I'm going to tell the people listening and watching right now, it doesn't have to be an either or.
 It could be at this end. So we want to be referenced in the media and in the broader media as East Buffalo from what my residents in Madison District tell me. We'll certainly hear from other residents of other districts, but we will always be
 the east side and that you cannot take from us, that no one can take from us. It is not an identity issue, but it is absolutely an issue of inclusivity. It is an issue of equity as we reference other parts of the city as blank Buffalo, we want to be East Buffalo and that is this council member sharing the sentiment of my constituency on this issue of war, of course of which we will hear more of
 next week, Tuesday, in our legislation committee. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Item number 78, trailblazing resolution for Reverend Marvin W. Robinson. Motion to approve item 78 and 79. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 80, transfer of funds buildings. Motion to send the finance item 80 and 81. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 82, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Local 264 Collective Bargaining Agreement. Motion to send to finance item 82. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Announcement of committee meetings.
 The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtual as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, July 5th, 2022 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service is Tuesday, July 5th, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community.
 development is Tuesday, July 5th, 2022 at 1 p.m. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, July 5th, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special committees, the Common Council will be holding a public hearing regarding reapportionment today, which is Tuesday, June 28th, 2022 at 5 p.m. at Council Chambers and claims tomorrow, which is Wednesday, June 28th, 2022 at Council Chambers.
 June 29th at 2 p.m. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to remind everyone to please go out and vote. Number one. Number two. There is a Mastin District stakeholders breakfast and meeting on July the 9th at 9 a.m. Again, we are hoping that everyone comes out. We have a nice warm breakfast prepared for you, cooked by chefs.
 in the city of Buffalo. So please come out and enjoy this great food, great information, great fellowship, July 9th, 9 a.m. Delavan Grider Center, 877 East Delavan. Thank you. All right. Anybody else? Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember, you want to stop up? We can meet real quick with the Majority Leader.