The family of Bertha White, she was a strong and vivid individual, full of life, and she would always tell the truth, no matter what anyone wanted to hear, she said what needed to be heard. And she will be sorely missed by her family and the community and her church family, which she served for over 50 plus years. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 Hearing none, we also stop and pause for our service men and women who may have given their life for the freedom of our country or for the freedom of others across the world since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence for all of those names. Thank you. You may be seated. Roll. Councilmember Farrellano.
 Here. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franzen. Here. Council Member Blombeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present.
 President. Council Member Wiley. No special presentations on the motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon. The minutes of the State of the Meeting held on June 13, 2017 are approved. Gentlemen, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Okay.
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Now take away your right to object to late files as they come to you. I know that there were a couple that were very, very late, so I do understand. I'm going to ask that one item be taken out of order because we have an entire family who is here with us today. And I know that they don't want to sit for an entire council meeting.
 And so their council member has requested so that they can get them back to work at school or home or wherever, that it be taken out of order. Is this an item on the agenda? What item? What item is it? Motion to take item 79 out of order. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 79, request trailblazing signs for George Buddy H. Gales.
 Senior. All right. You want to do the whole motion first? We've got to do the motion. All right. Motion. Motion to, what are we doing? To add a order. Majority Leader, what's the motion? The motion was to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. If I can have the family come down. Thank you.
 Now the family, some of the family come down, or representatives from the family. I think this is probably one of the biggest families we've seen here for trailblazing, sir. While the family is coming down, I just wanted to ask George, Buddy, Gail, this is my first trailblazing sign. And to be quite honest, this is probably one of the best I could ever do because Mr. Gail represents
 what we are about community, family. You overcome on both sides. And, you know, a couple of weeks ago the family had their first annual George Buddy Gale's baseball event, game. And I thought it would be like maybe 15, 20 people, probably close to 100 people attended. 127. 127 people attended. Yeah.
 And it was very heartwarming because it was heartfelt because Mr. Gale was about family, he was about community. And her son spoke, and I believe the spirit of his father was within him when he talked about the importance of that event and that day and what he meant for his family. So it is my honor to present this pro-religion sign to his wife, Ms. Diane Gale.
 council that we will forever remember that baseball family got together and the family connected and the family communed as George Lee Fidelis baseball. I just would like to say thank you to all the members of the council. I really appreciate doing it. My mother had just wanted to do something not only for our family, also for the community
 to allow them to understand the spirit of my dad and what he did and what he represented in our community, in our family, and as a whole, just want to allow us to understand that there are more things that are more important than our everyday lives. We need to connect with one another. And through softball, our whole entire family was able to connect.
 We came together, we had parties, we did multiple things together. But mostly, it was bringing everyone together so that everyone would understand and know that we are connected. We are a part of one another, and that we want to continue to establish this,
 and continuing to have this every single year for the family and hopefully maybe even for the community at some time. So again, we thank you, and we just want to God bless everyone that's in here for the movement and the approval of this sign. Thank you so much. All right. I'll just add to what my son said. I'm very emotional. It's still kind of new for me and a lot for my husband, but
 We're going to continue his legacy, which is so important, that we bring families together and, above all, show love to one another and to the community. And so the goal is to include the community in this softball opener every year. So that's what we intend to do. We intend to continue his legacy of love, support, and care. Thank you.
 For the University District families, look forward to participating as a family. I think it's so important that with all the ills in our society, a lot of it can be remedied by number one God and number two family. Thank you all. Thank you for your help and what he's done for our community. I love you. Good deal. It was an honor to have you all here. And if you want to stay, you're very welcome to stay. I mean, it's a very interesting meeting. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, thank you. One of the largest and most prominent families in our city. Thankful for all that they do. All right. From the top. Item 1, submission of monthly report, May 2017. Motion to receive and file items 1 and 2. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 3, Broadway Market Lease, Seafood and Broadway Market Meats. Motion to approve items 3...
 through eight second by council member franz up item nine hud annual action plan motion is sent to cd second by council member content item 10 annual audit plan motion extensive finance
 Second by Council Member Glumbeck. Item 11, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file items 11, 12, and 13. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 14, for our Department of Payroll follow-up audit. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 15, inter-fund loan streetscape improvement. Motion to approve. Second by President Pozzo. Item 16, discretionary fund guidelines. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Pantone. Item 17, permission for sole source in rem...
 Auction support. Motion to approve item 17 through and including 30. Second by Council Member Fontana. Oh, um, 24. Spurs receive and file 24. So motion was to approve item 17 through 23. Second by Council Member Fontana. Corrected.
 Item 24, reported bids, animal shelter improvements project. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 25, reported bids, police and fire headquarters. Motion to approve items 25 through 30. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 31, notification serials. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt and I just want to comment on this. This is about Niagara Square. I've been rather concerned about all of the vehicles parking in Niagara Square. And it's been pressed and they're allowed and what I asked the Park Commissioner is no one be allowed anymore. Press or no one else. And so what this does is give a space for press right in the front of the building to the left of the bus stop.
 But no one will be allowed anymore to park in the square. It's just ridiculous. And it shouldn't be allowed. And I think the only people is the gardeners. There's some volunteer gardeners. And they have things, you know, dirt and stuff in their cars. Other than that, and I'm not sure if they're volunteers, but they're gardeners.
 Other than that, there should be no parking. It looks bad. I know we have food trucks in there, but that's a service. But everybody else would be barred unless it's authorized by the city. Council Member Fontana?
 Mayor Murkowski would be proud of you on this one. All right. Yeah, there's the controversy in the 70s, but I think this is a good policy. People are using it as a parking lot, and it really, you know, I don't know in other cities if you can do that, but it just never seemed right to do it. So I'm glad that this is coming forward before the council. Yes, thank you. I thought it was very important. And thanks to Kevin Helfer and to Commissioner Stepney at his office for getting this done quickly. We just talked about it two weeks ago. Next item. 132, appoint detective. Detective.
 Motion motion to send us to civil service items 32 and 33 second by councilman front son I'm 34 acceptance of donation D district motion to approve item 34 second by councilman further 35 will start license 3154 Bailey I
 Motion to send to ledge items 35 through 37. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 38, food store 2205 Niagara. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 40, food store Universal Food Mart 1266 Genesee. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 41, lodging house 204 Franklin. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 42, mobile food truck.
 Motion to send to ledge items 42, 43, 44, and 45. Seconded by Council Member Spiroletto. Item 46, secondhand dealer, 1853 Genesee. Motion to send to ledge. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 47, sidewalk cafe, 765 Elmwood. Motion to send to ledge and DPW items 47, 48, and 49. Seconded by Council Member Spiroletto.
 Item 49, Sidewalk Cafe, 128 Genesee. Motion to send to ledge. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 50, Used Car Dealer, 855 Sycamore. Motion to approve items 51 through 54. 50, what about 50?
 You said that? Item 50. A used car dealer. You said that's a ledge, right? Okay. That's a ledge and DPW. All right. So that's second by Council Member Franzen. Item 51, agreement with Albart, Knox, and Gallery. Motion to approve items 51, 52, and 53. Second by Council Member DeLombert. Item 54, agreement with...
 WC BEC to administer Mary's summer youth program motion to approve as well second by council member Wingo item 55 items return to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval motion to receive and file items 55 through 64 second by president pro-tem Item 65 Buffalo News editorial Buffalo needs affordable rent motion is sent to ledge and my councilmember Wyatt I
 And Council Member Scanlon has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to file this article from the Brooklyn News Editorial Board because I think it provides a glimpse into some of the potential pitfalls of a blanket inclusionary zoning policy across the city.
 Let me start, I obviously understand the need for more affordable units. And I'm willing to and I think everyone on the council is willing to do whatever we can to assist in that cause. But I just want everyone to understand that this isn't a simple answer to this problem. First of all, Buffalo has no significant population growth to boast of.
 And while property values are increasing in the city of Buffalo, they're not increasing to the rate that some other cities have that have implemented inclusionary zoning practices. So those cities who have major population growth, increased property values, they're
 the demand, the rents that make up for the affordable units. And we're not at that point, so we just have to figure out some sort of mechanism which we can do, where we would be able to assist in providing more affordable units. Another issue we seem to see is some of the people that are even advocating for the inclusionary zoning policy
 We can't just seem to get them on the same page. Some days they're out there yelling they want 30% across the board. Other days they're saying they don't want a blanket policy. So there's a lot that needs to be hashed out. Again, I know that there's obviously there's a need for the units, and the council's on record saying we want to assist in however we can. But I just, again, want everyone here in the room and everyone at home maybe watching to understand that this is a complex issue and there's no real simple answer to it. Thank you, sir. Council Member Lundell.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with Mr. Scanlon. I think that one of the things is, as I mentioned before, is that a blanket policy, one size fitting all, I don't think works for the city of Buffalo. I was with one of my community groups and they were asking me, they said, oh, I heard there was a commotion at the council, what was going on? And I explained to them, said, no, we're not going to do that.
 some of the issue. And they said, well, what exactly is this inclusionary zoning? I explained it to them as best as I could. And they said to me, and almost every single person there said, well, you don't support this, do you? And I said, well, I don't support it at the higher number. And one of the people said to me, they go, well, gee, that's all well and good when you've got districts that have already had
 I don't think she used the word gentrification, but you've already had progress and you've had buildings built. You've had new buildings built. You've had renovations. And she said, so right now when it's about to hit Black Rock and Riverside, you're going to put the brakes on it so that your neighborhood gets screwed. And I said, no. I said, that's not my position. I said, and that's why I don't support the 30%.
 And that's why I don't support the uniform policy. Well, I think in theory that we need to protect everyone in the city of Buffalo, especially people that live in neighborhoods that are being gentrified. I think we also have to realize that there's other parts of the city that have not had this same problem.
 And I'd like to have that problem. I have gunshots in my district. I have people getting killed in my district. I'd like to have the gentrification problem to worry about. And I think it's terribly unfair that it's hit other districts, and now that it's heading my way, North District's way, that it seems like we're trying to put the tailspin on it. So, you know, I agree with Mr. Scanlon. I believe that we need to put a policy in effect, but not a one-size-fits-all policy.
 And I think there needs to be a lot of discussion about this because every neighborhood has different needs and wants. Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, and before I go to the next speaker, I don't think on this floor that we've had anybody want the one-size-fits-all. So I want to be very clear because I know public is watching and the council, at least from what I've heard,
 That's why we're working on that policy. There have been people who have brought us the suggestion, one size fits all. But I don't think I've talked to one council member that I'm looking at right now that says that's the way we should go. So I want to be clear that the council member's comments are not about what the council is trying to do at all.
 And on that, our attorney, which I told her to file this instead of just giving it to you all, has a checklist of your priorities when it comes to a policy. So that you'll send this to the Affordable Housing Task Force, which is actively meeting. And I wanted you all to have it to be able to weigh in also.
 Because that way we'll get to good policy. And we will file this so that even the public can see the questions that are being asked. Some of them are the policy type, mandatory, voluntary, or mixed. Select one from the following. This is very well done because it gives us now opportunity to start weighing in. So we've promised that it wouldn't be just ram down people's throat, ram down developers' throat. I think that there are some people who are afraid.
 of any policy because of money grab. And so I think together, we work together, and I've said it before, with developers, with people, but also remembering that we do have an affordable housing problem.
 study that we've been promised. They're scheduling the release of that, and then that will show us the real numbers. But I want to make sure the council doesn't become divided based on what others are saying because council members have, I haven't heard one of, and if I'm wrong, correct me now, I'm not embarrassed to be corrected.
 one of us say it should be blanket. That I can't, I'm not going to vote at this point for something that's blanket. It must work for Buffalo. It must be unique. So I agree with you. Council Member Revere? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I read the editorial article and, you know,
 Unfortunately, or fortunately, you know, we don't depend on the editorial board to make our decisions. If it was because of the editorial board or their thinking, we would not have Canal Side or Harbor Center where it is today.
 Years back, this Common Council, the majority on this Common Council voted against selling the Webster block. We got criticized by the Buffalo News. Today, it's Harbor Center. We don't always rely on the Buffalo News. Yes, there's some good editorials. But I'd like to find out exactly how many of those editorial members actually live in the city of Buffalo. They want to put the burden
 strictly on the taxpayers' shoulders and not have developers contribute anything. And I think that's totally unfair. And you're absolutely right. At no time did we commit to a number. 30%, 15%, 10%, 5% we never did.
 Other folks have come before us, very passionate, and we might get upset at them, at the way they conduct themselves, and storming and yelling and screaming, and it's uncalled for. But I understand some of the passion that they feel and some of the concerns that they have. That doesn't give them the right to come and disrupt the meetings, and certainly we stood up to them when they did. However, I agree with you. This is something that's needed.
 And I think that we just need to work to find the numbers that work. As we always said from the very beginning, we don't want to put anybody out of business. We don't want to stop development in the city of Buffalo according to the Buffalo News. We welcome developers. I mean, they're coming into this Common Council almost every meeting to show us future development. And the good thing about it, some of those developments are even showing us where affordable housing is working.
 And that is something we should also speak about, that we have developers that have come before us. There have been people that have been contacted, and we know this, that have been questioned to say affordable housing or affordable inclusionary zoning is bad, and they have resisted doing that. And I stand up for those people that have resisted. So thank you once again and all our colleagues that have...
 maintain an open mind and hopefully we can work through this complicated process. Nobody is saying it's simple, it is complicated, but I think that's something if we work collectively together we can find some of the solutions. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I can agree with my colleague. You know, this is not a one-size-fits-all situation, but we must do something and we've been very patient
 and patient and waiting. And as we continue to wait, there's people who are up here desperate for outcomes of affordable housing. So we can sit on the sideline and we can kind of, you know, Monday morning quarterback about this process, but we know that we've been pressing. It's important. And it doesn't seem like it's important to others. We need to have this front and center.
 People are crying out for support. When you are put in a situation where you are being evicted from your home and you have no place to go, no place that you're familiar with, when you've lived that, when you felt that, you feel a little bit differently. Because nobody should not know what they're going to do or where they're going to be going next month or next week.
 And that's where some of these residents are in those situations, where they don't know where they're going. So while we sit and we wait for a policy that folks have taken their time in getting to us, and people have come forth and talked about something that seems to side with the Buffalo News,
 It concerns me because it concerns me that it seems as though we're going to keep kicking this down the road. We've requested something you've made, requests for a policy, and we're sitting here today and we still don't have a policy. But we'll continue to try to work with the administration. But at the end of the day, there's still people out here crying out for help, and I want to try to be that help for them.
 We know that one size doesn't fit all, but we need something. We need something to have some teeth to start deciding what this policy is going to look like. But right now it just seems as though we're taking our time. This is not moving as quickly as we would like to. We've screamed and hollered, and people want to say, hey, you're pushing us too fast. Well, we're supposed to have this in February. It's now going into July. Okay.
 It's going to be August. It's going to be recess. And it'll be September. It'll be October. And I hope that we're not still having the same conversation. So I agree. One side doesn't fit all. We want to see something that's progressive, that's innovative, that really helps the residents to have some decent housing, to not be genderfied, but we want to see something and something real fast. Thank you. President Proctoro.
 Thank you. I just want to be clear that not in the past nor do I now rely on the editorial board for anything, just like I don't rely on some of the organizations that come in here and try and jam things down our throats. I just want to be clear. I mean, I'm more than in favor of drafting a policy and putting something in place that helps everyone throughout the city of Buffalo. And that's what I really wanted to get across, that...
 that i don't think that this that the comments of anybody is resisting the policy it is saying that we have to be we it needs to be crafted for buffalo and uh i appreciate that because you know a lot of times you hear people say well this city did this this city well we know buffalo's unique and we that's why we have to have those numbers and why i think that this council has not made a knee-jerk reaction
 and just went out there and threw a policy out. And why I am very encouraged by Ms. Howard's questionnaire, because it starts that conversation. And we have citizens who are not elected who are going to fill out that questionnaire, who each council member has had the opportunity to appoint to that affordable housing task force, and if you haven't, you still can. And so, very good. Thank you.
 Council Member White, last word. I just want to say one thing, and I commend you for putting together the Affordable Housing Committee. I've met with a couple of the committee members. They're very open-minded. I respect that because they didn't say, oh, well, we don't want this. They are open to getting the information, so I'm hopeful that they can come up with something because none of them really have an agenda.
 They are just saying, well, how can we craft something that's a good policy? So I'm good with that. Yeah, they came, and one of the committee members is here, they came with a white board clean and said, let's see what's really real, what works for us. And so I think that the residents of Buffalo, I think that they should be pleased that this is a common council that is trying to do it right.
 Because if we do it wrong and we're sued and we don't have the numbers or the backing for why we made that decision, it could sit in a court for years. And I'd rather see it become policy because we've worked with stakeholders and we've worked with developers, we've worked with our people, we've worked with the renters, and we came up with something that works. Good deal. Next item. 166, market garden policy proposal. Motion is sent to ledge.
 Second by comes up member hero little petition items 67 zoning map amendment 314 Myrtle motion to send to legislature City Planning Board items 67 through 69 second by councilmember Montana I am 70 concerns zoning map amendment 1764 hurl motion to receive and file second by council member for your letter who has the floor, okay committee civil service item 1 a point real property appraiser and
 Motion to approve items number 1, 2, and 3. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Item 4, no supplements, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive in 5. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Community Development Committee, item 5, extend designated developer various items in Monroe Lots. C.D.?
 Motion is to approve items 5 and 6. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 7, illegal activity at 78 Sherman Street. Motion to receive in file 7, 8, 9, and 10. Second by the Majority Leader. Legislation Committee, item 11, food store license 1678 Hurdle. There are no objections. Motion to approve items 11 through and including 14. Second by Council Member Wyler. 15, shall we say. 15? All the way through 15. Yes, sir.
 Item 16, Zoning Map Amendment 1764, Hurdle. 16 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by the majority leader.
 And Council Member Fioletto has the floor. Thank you very much. I just wanted to speak on this item briefly. This is for the DASH's store that is proposed to go on the corner of Hurdle and Starin. There's overwhelming community support for this project. I know there were ten people who spoke here last week. Five of them were from the neighborhood.
 The majority of people that spoke from the neighborhood were concerned about the project being rezoned instead of just applying for variances. They said they support the project getting variances and the applicant, Mr. Joe Dash, said that he wants to proceed through the Zoning Board of Appeals.
 He sent a letter out to the nearby neighbors towards the end of last week and asked them to come and show their support for the project on July 19 at the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting. That's why we are sending it back to committee. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 17, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 96-19, Living Wage Ordinance. 17, motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 18, National Federal Request Amendment to UDO. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Resolutions, item 71, Transfer of Funds, Planning Funds. Motion to approve item 71 through 74. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 75, Appoint Marriage Officer. Motion to adopt item 75 through 78. Second by Councilmember Scanlon.
 Committee on the Committee on Civil Service, Wednesday, July 5th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, Wednesday, July 5th, 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development, Wednesday, July 5th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Wednesday, July 5th, 2 p.m. Any announcements, Council Members? Council Member Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr.,
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, we are back in full effect with our stakeholders meeting for the District of Mastin, the second Saturday of the month of July. We will have our stakeholders meeting at 830-877-EAST-DELIVIN. We hope that everyone will come out and please attend. We will serve you breakfast. We have some very, very exciting announcements to make, including one of which we will be introducing a new initiative in the Mastin District to begin targeting a lot of our empty city-owned lots that have been destroyed
 polluted, and also targeting some of these deli stores who are egregious in their conduct by not complying with the conditions by which they were approved on. So we will be kicking off a major initiative. We would like everyone to come out so that they can get all the information possible for these two initiatives. And we want to clean up massive. We will introduce that new hashtag in a couple days. So you have a look out. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I got a hashtag and everything.
 Council Member Fialetto, Scanlon Wyatt.
 Thank you. Thursday, July 6th, my office is sponsoring hopefully the first annual Buffalo Philharmonic concert. It's going to be at North Park Academy on the corner of Tacoma and Parkside. There will be food trucks there. It's free to the public. Are the food trucks free? The food trucks aren't free, but the concert is free. I was going to say, I'm there.
 And I want to just invite all my colleagues there. Hopefully it's as much of a success as Councilmember Wyatt's event that I attended two weeks ago, which was phenomenal. Thank you. It might be the same crowd. Who did you have? You, same thing, or somebody? Eddie Williams. Yeah, you might be the same crowd if you advertise in this neighborhood to the Philharmonic. President Brooks, come on. I apologize, but can we revisit item number 76 very briefly? All right.
 All right. We'll get your announcement, and then we'll come back and revisit it. All right. Let's revisit. The motion is to revisit item 76, seconded by Council Member Wyeth, as before. Yeah. Thank you. I just want to thank the members of the Council for supporting this resolution. The CWA, which represents 2,100 workers in 36 states for AT&T, they asked us to get on board to support them. Back in May, they were forced to go on strike after AT&T stopped coming to the table and negotiating fairly.
 Some of the things they were looking for are simple things such as increased wages for workers, basic job security protection because AT&T has been outsourcing so many of their jobs. They've also been looking for affordable health care and a fair scheduling policy. Nothing major to be asking for, and AT&T refused to come to the table and discuss
 present realistic proposals. So AT&T brings in more than a billion dollars a month in profits. I think the least they can do is come to the table and negotiate openly and fairly. So I just want to thank again the council members that are on board supporting the resolution. Very good. Very kind. Thank you, sir. Motion stands. Council Member White?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to invite the University District residents to our breakfast, Saturday, July 15th at 9 a.m. at St. Lawrence Church. We're asking all the residents that want to see the University District cleaned up to come and participate. We're going to be going door-to-door the week before to just announce the breakfast as well as our cleanup period. But, you know, this is your opportunity to be engaged. July 15th at 9 a.m. St. Lawrence Church on East Sullivan Avenue. Thank you. All right. No food trucks.
 All right. All right. Anything else? You know what time it is. Majority Leader. Senator Blackhouse on the right. We're adjourned.