And we're live. Councilor, Shawn, I think you're on mute. Shawn, can the- 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Present. Councilmember Farrelletto? Here. Councilmember Glumbach? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Present. Council President Pridgen? Atte. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon?
 Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. Thank you so much. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner, will introduce our esteemed guest. Thank you, Council President. It's an honor to be joined today by the most Reverend Michael W. Fisher,
 to give you just a bit of his background, a graduate of the University of Maryland, a degree in business and accounting. He was the comptroller for a psychiatric practice in Bethesda, Maryland, and fell to call into a full-time ministry. I loved it in his bio in 2005, he was appointed Vicar General
 For the Apostolates, where he oversaw the Archdiocesan Ministries for Education, Ethnic Ministries, Social Justice and Service, Parish Life, and Youth Ministry. All of those, it seems to me, are quite relevant now that he is with us here in Buffalo. December 1st, 2020, Pope Francis appointed Bishop Michael William Fisher as the 15th Bishop of Buffalo. Soon after his arrival here as the new bishop,
 Bishop of the Diocese of Buffalo, a group of us was invited to join him for Vespers, and it was a joy to be able to meet Bishop in person. And at that point we began the discussion of having him open the council in our invocation time.
 He goes by Bishop Mike is his preferred title. It did say in your bio, sir, that you are a lifelong Baltimore Orioles fan, but you'd root for the Washington Nationals if they're not playing the O's, but
 The conflict now must be that actually Toronto Blue Jays are playing in Buffalo, so I'm not sure how you navigate those very choppy waters. Bishop, Mike, it is a joy and a privilege to welcome you today to the Buffalo Common Council. Thank you for joining us, sir.
 Thank you for having me. I'm just an overall baseball fan. But it's a real joy to be here. I'm growing to really love Buffalo and
 and I've gotten to many parts of our Catholic diocese here in the Diocese of Buffalo, and I really love the city. And it's again, a joy to get to know all of you and to be with you today. So shall I open with a prayer? Absolutely, lead us, sir. Okay, let us pray.
 All-knowing and loving God, ruler of the universe and creator of all life, we call upon you this day and always to direct our paths and to guide our ways that we may walk always in your truth and in our actions bear witness to your boundless love, your care and concern for all people without bias or preference. Harden not our hearts to the cries of those who have no other recourse
 and inspire us to work together towards solutions that bring about justice and equity, especially for those who have long been denied. In our efforts to pass laws that promote the common good, may we consider first those whom society has cast aside or left behind, knowing that in serving the least of those among us, we serve you.
 Enlighten our minds and hearts that we may always seek common understanding and dare to listen to those whose concerns are different from our own. Enable us to put aside resentment of every kind, to forgive as you have forgiven us, and always to take the first step toward others with outstretched arms and with hearts eager to reconcile. May we be true and faithful stewards of all that you have entrusted to us
 and allowed us to oversee for a time. We pledge always to be mindful that the life we have and the bounty we enjoy is but a gift from you, recognizing that true fulfillment is not measured by what we possess but in what we give of ourselves to others. Inspire in us, each of us, true generosity of spirit.
 As servant leaders entrusted with authority to govern and decide for others, may we seek to accomplish that which is right and good and which will endure as a testament to our motives long after our time here has passed. In all things and words and deeds, may we reflect your truth which gives courage to the meek and defeats every falsehood. Your mercy which heals the brokenhearted
 and rights every wrong, and your love which knows no end, and which gives purpose and joy to every moment of our lives. Let us never tire in pursuing your will, and in all things may we hope in you, O God, claiming the promise of your prophet Isaiah. Those who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength.
 They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. From the rising of the sun to its setting, may your name be praised. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop, and thank you for being with us, with the Common Council, and welcome to the city of Buffalo. We are honored to have you.
 and many of the council members who are on our Roman Catholic. So if you need to send them there, if they need to send their tithes into their church, I'll make sure they do it. Thank you, Bishop. I look forward to meeting all of you in person at some point. Thank you, sir. Council members, any memories? Council member Wingo. It saddens me today to have to say this memoriam, but
 I would like to ask the City of Buffalo to keep lifted in their thoughts and prayers. Mayor's Clerk for the City of Buffalo and her husband, Viola Bryant and Martin Bryant, of whom mother passed away just yesterday morning. She fell asleep, but of course we know as those who are in the faith, we don't fall asleep with no hope.
 She fell asleep, but she woke on the other side in the arms of her father. So we thank God for her life and her legacy. She lived a fruitful 81 years. And we are praying that the Bryant family receives that peace from God that the word says surpasses all understanding. And with that, thank you, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to memorialize this awesome and strong, strong woman of faith. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. Any others? Seeing no other, we always remember our men, women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and not just the freedom of our country, but for people across the world. We pause now for a moment of silence. Thank you so much. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by
 On a motion by Councilmember Rivera, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 8th, 2021 are approved. Councilmembers, you have late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. That is before us, not taking away your right to pause at any time to read an item you have not been able to read.
 are we going from the top majority leader yes mr president all right item number one appoint save our streets coordinator motion is sent to civil service second by council member wyatt item number two 2021 annual action plan motion to send to finance second by council member wingo item number three amend grassroots garden lease no objections motion to approve
 Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Motion to approve items 3, 4, 5, and 6. You can also approve items 7 and 8. Second stands. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number nine, report of sale 244 maple. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Bowling. Item number 10, 2021 to 2022 capital debt service fund. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 11, contract with Zenger, print tax and user fee bills. Motion to approve items 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Leto? Yes. Okay.
 Councilmember Galambek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 25, appoint cell block attendant. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 26, appoint consultant five. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Ferraletto.
 council member bowman yes council member ferraletto yes council member yes council member noakowski yes council president pridgen yes council member rivera yes council member scanlon yes council member wingo yes council member wyatt yes item number 27 appoint fire captain motion to send the civil service items 27 and 28. second by council member
 Item number 29, food store license 2272 Genesee. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 30, food store license 83 Grant Street. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember Bowman.
 Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Glambach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyeth? Yes. Item number 32, new tire handler 59 Stanislaus. Motion is sent to legislation item 32 and 33.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 34, Sidewalk Cafe 250 Delaware Ave. Item is open. Majority Leader, we can send that with conditions. Approve it with conditions. Approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Galamec. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 35, Sidewalk Cafe, 929M1F. This item's open. Delaware District? Delaware District. We would like this item approved. Motion to approve. And you can approve 36 with conditions? Motion to approve items 35 and 36 with conditions.
 We probably can keep going 37 and 38. I can buy Council member Feraletto. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Feraletto? Yes. Council member Glombeck? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 39, BSA budget 2021 to 2022. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Temp Scandler. Item number 40, Liquor License Notice 155 Chandler's third suite. Motion to receive and file items 40 through 42. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 43, appoint legislative aid. Motion to adopt item 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Wingo and the dog.
 Item number 45, appoint traffic agency clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 46, acknowledgement from office of Canadian prime minister. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 47, special use permit 2227 South Park for tobacco establishment.
 Motion to send to legislation and city planning board items 47 through 49. Second by council member Wingo. Submissions list, civil service, item one, appoint general planner. Motion is to receive and file items one through and including 19. Second by council member White. Community development, item 20, Wingo.
 82, 84, 88, and 90 Monroe Street, DDA. Motion is to approve. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 21, report of sale 155, Goulding. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Legislation, item 22, food store license 2183, Genesee. Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item 23, petition to repave Oshawa Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Goleman. Second by Councilmember Goleman.
 Item number 24, special use permit 1893 Niagara Street for towering and outdoor dining. Motion is to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Phil. I'm sorry, by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 25, special use permit 1911 Seneca for tobacco establishment. Can we recommit that, please?
 What was that? Can we please recommit that? Thank you. Yes, motion is to recommit. Motion is to recommit, seconded by Councilmember Scala. Item number 26, Nowakowski Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 261, Lead, Paint, Hazard. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Yes.
 Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 27, Pridgen-Wingo Ordinance Amendment, Section 13-21, Right to Know Law. Motion to recommit.
 Motion is to recommit, seconded by Councilmember Wingo. And as I stated in the meeting, there just needs to be a few adjustments that we wanna make sure it gets done. Item number 28, Rivera Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 96, Bonds and Contracts, Living Wage. Okay, if you could scroll down also, there's a motion to approve 28, 29, 30 with conditions, and 31.
 All right, second by the majority. Excuse me, this is Karen Gordon. Can you look at 30? 30 says recommit to ledge. Am I seeing something different on mine? 30 is approved with conditions. Mr. Chair.
 Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Mr. Chair, we had the public hearing on the 15th and the neighbors and the applicants have met to discuss their concerns. We're going to approve with the conditions set by the planning board and we're also going to have a one year sunset on that. Thank you, sir. Those are the conditions. Do we do roll? Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombe? Yes.
 Is this including item number 31? Yes. Yes. I'm a yes on everything except for item number 31, and I would like to speak on that, please. Okay. We'll finish the roll and then we'll come back. Is that okay? Sure. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Council Member Golombek, you had the floor. Yeah, thank you. Item number 31, I voted no on. This was one I believe that indirectly came out of possibly resolution that was sponsored by Mr. Fronczak five or six years ago, in which the council asked for
 concerts that were being played on the waterfront to be moved away from the Marine Drive apartments. I supported that resolution years ago, you know, with the idea that it would not be exclusively looking for one location for
 uh concerts to be played in the future um you know i am against uh the idea of building this amphitheater on the uh waterfront now i want to just clarify the position here the concerns that i have is you know i don't believe that 100 percent of our waterfront land should be
 utterly and completely passive. I do think that there needs to be tax revenue and recreational things for residents and tourists to do. I just don't believe that that is the right spot for an amphitheater. I'm curious as to what will happen with the
 park, the Ralph Wilson Park that we're getting funding for on the west side of Buffalo. And I just want to share one little anecdotal story. I voted against the casino coming into downtown Buffalo because one of the concerns I always have whenever I vote on something is the law of unintended consequences. And
 You know, I'm always concerned. Okay, you know, something's going to happen that we're not planning for that we're not sure about. And I remember one of the downtown developers who told me that I was wrong to vote against the casino, three years later ran into me and said, you know, I think you were right. And
 told me that since the casino had come to downtown Buffalo, that he was not able to get musical, uh, groups to come to his establishments for anything, uh, less than, uh, double what he had paid for five years earlier. Um, I am concerned about the possibility of, uh, um,
 You know, the unfortunate aspect that you're going to have people competing with one another with the waterfront and that there might be some sort of unfair competitive edge that is there. So I'm just I'm in the negative on this. I think that there should be someplace else that we should be looking at, you know, other parks, downtown Buffalo, etc. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. This item is a special use permit for, among other things, live entertainment on the Outer Harbor. Coinciding with that request are the plans for the Erie County Harbor Development Corporation to construct an amphitheater where Terminal B currently stands. That project would remove the skin of that building and build a stage adjacent to the remaining steel portion of the structure, which would remain there.
 And that project is going to open up that valuable portion of the outer harbor to the public on a regular basis, which is currently blocked off.
 Residents will now have access to the water's edge there where they did not in the past because of that building and the condition it's in. Moving forward, this project is only going to take a council member, Glumbeck I think makes a good point that the outer harbor, there have to be some things going on out there that generate some sort of revenue and things of that nature and provide things for people to do. This project is only going to take up 5% of the entire outer harbor. It's somewhere around 980.
 9 out of 200 acres. It will provide an extremely unique venue for live entertainment. I know I've received complaints about some of the construction that will have to take place and elimination of some trees, but any trees that are going to be removed will be replaced at a 3 to 1 rate. So we're actually going to come out ahead in that regard. No other development is going to be taking place in that location.
 existing parking will be used. I know some people have been raising concerns about additional paving taking place and additional parking being set up. That is not the case. They will be using the existing parking adjacent to Terminal A on the streets and I believe they're actually negotiating with the State Park to use some of that large parking lot as well for those events.
 In addition to this, the public now being able to access this area and the entertainment acts that will take place, it's going to provide a tremendous location for other community activities and events hosted by nonprofits and other fundraising efforts. There will be public amenities located throughout the location.
 So this is really going to open up that portion of the Outer Harbor for people. I want to thank Erie Canal Harbor Development for their leadership on the project and being so open and communicating with me throughout the project. And I also extremely want to thank each and every member of the Outer Harbor Advocate Group who has reached out to my office on the issue. I know...
 Whether they were in favor of the project, opposed to the project, they've absolutely made the project better in the end by voicing their concerns and throughout the process, not just this process with the council, but in past years with Erie Canal Harbor Development. Hearing their voice has definitely improved the project, and I look forward to continuing to work with them on items pertaining to the outer harbor in the future. So thank you.
 Thank you. And I was vocal about my concerns also when they came before us. And one of the things and you just mentioned it comes from a scandal that I thought was important is that because it is a government entity.
 that there be an opportunity for community organizations, for not-for-profits to utilize that space and for the public to be able to utilize it when there is not a concert. I lived down by Marine Drive for almost, well, over 10 years and know the problems of having the concerts over by Marine Drive. And especially as that area becomes more populated,
 And I think people want to be able to utilize that area for the park. And I never felt that should have been a concert venue. It was the wrong place and it took away access. And our summers are only so long. So knowing that people will be able to go to the water's edge when there is not a concert
 and that there will be opportunities for groups in our city to utilize it was really what was the game changer for me. So thank you for keeping me informed and everyone in the loop. Council Member Nowakowski.
 Thank you Mr. Chair. I do also want to uh you know thank my colleague Councilmember Scanlon who really did a wonderful job uh talking to his colleagues and mitigating concerns that we had and educating us on this proposal. I do know that my residents uh that represented Marine Drive will be uh inclined to be in favor of this because it moves the concert venues from directly next to them and like the council member uh said that this is nine acres on a totality of 200 acres
 On the outer harbor, it is zoned mixed use. So this is a permitted use within its zoning classifications. This is a special use permit for music. And I think that the council member also brought up a good point that although trees are being taken down, they're being replaced by three to one. And that addresses a lot of concerns that have been arisen to this council, especially to me via email. So thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. None other. Motion stands. Next item.
 Resolutions item 50, Allie Turner fee waiver. Motion to approve items 50 and 51. Second by Council Member Boland. Council Member Boland. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pritchett. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Item number 52, waive fees associated with domestic violence walk. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 53, fee waiver for Shakespeare and Delaware Park. Motion to approve items 53 and 54. Seconded by Councilmember Fioriletto.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Item number 55, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Item number 56, park rental and special event fees for Juneteenth 2021. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferreletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombek. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Councilmember Rivera. Yes. Councilmember Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Last item before us. Announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, June 29th, 2021 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, Tuesday, June 29th at 10 a.m.
 Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, June 29th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, June 29th at 2 p.m.
 Thank you, sir. And just so that we know we are going to attempt to do a live meeting on July 21st so that we can work out all of the kinks of our system so that when we return in September, we will know what needs to be done. We will continue to utilize social media for our work.
 for our committee meeting, the last committee meeting in July. And we just want the public to know that all of those meetings will still be available on all of the social media platforms that we are currently on. I think that that's very important to continue. Any announcements? Mr. Chair, I believe that's July 20th.
 Tuesday, July 20th. Oh, yeah. I have an old map still on my desk here. Thank you. You're welcome. You're totally correct. Council Member Scanlon?
 Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to take one brief moment to wish a heartfelt congratulations to one of our colleagues who exchanged his marital vows this past Saturday with his lovely bride, Council Member Faralletto, and his wife, Carrie, exchanged their vows this past Saturday. So I just wanted to wish him and Carrie congratulations and all the best in their life together. Thank you.
 Councilman Frioletto, is there anything you'd like to say? Thank you very much. I appreciate it. We had a wonderful ceremony. We drove through your district of South Buffalo to get to the Basilica. It was wonderful. I appreciate the kind words and thank you very much.
 Well, I wasn't going to tell it. I wasn't sure. So I'm glad that Chris, Council Member Scanlon did. And congratulations, sir. Thank you. Any other announcements? Anybody else married or anything? Seeing no other hands up. Now we can see three people. I'm sorry. Hearing no one else. Motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by the newly married Council Member, Joel Fira-Leto. Thank you, everybody.