Councilmember Golombek. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Court is present. I stand for the pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our council chaplain will introduce our guest chaplain, Bishop Bowens. It's a joy for me to introduce a friend of ours that goes back more than 25 years. And we've journeyed a whole host of times together. I knew you long before you were Bishop Bowens. It's good to have you here today. Longtime pastor, love of life. gospel, full gospel church, and one of the spirit ministers forum that he's formed across the country based on a trip to Israel. As you know, Council President Pritchett and us were in Israel. It's life changing. And I am so excited that you're able to join us today, an important day of the city when democracy is in action. And so prayer matters even more, today as you gather us in prayer, please. Let us pray. Gracious Father, we are so grateful for this occasion, this opportunity, and for this august body. Thank you, Lord. Bless these servants as they carry out the assignment of this city. Give them wisdom, guidance, grace, and direction. Touch each heart, each mind, and each spirit as only you can. We thank you and bless you for your grace and your mercy. In the blessed and wonderful name of Jesus, our Savior and King, we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop Bowens. Thank you, Reverend Doctor. Council Member Memorandum. Council Member Golombeck. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside neighborhood lost John Callahan in the past week after a lengthy battle with cancer. John and his family were very, very well known in the Riverside neighborhood. Anybody that ever had Pat's Pizzeria, that was his brother and his family's pizzeria. John had been sick and we had hoped that he was in remission, but sadly passed away. He's going to be very sorely missed by his many friends and family members. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Vierenden. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I'd like to keep in our memories and thoughts Mike Goss. Born September 27, 1975, passed on June the 2nd, 2023 at early age of 53 years of age. Mike was a devoted son, father, uncle, teacher, and friend to many. After graduating from Kenmore West Senior High School, Mike received his Bachelor's of Science degree in education and history. from SUNY Albany in 1997 and spent the last 15 years shaping the minds and the hearts of thousands of young people at Amherst Central High School as their beloved global teacher. Mike was not just a trusted teacher who profoundly impacted on his students, but was also loved and appreciated by so many others outside of the classroom, resulting in mutual respect. from any person that was blessed to know him. Mike's legacy lives on in the hearts and minds of those committed family members and friends and community. So we keep them in our thoughts and our prayers. Thank you very much. If we can keep them in our thoughts and prayers, the family of Eric Reid. Eric was an incredible musician and someone beloved throughout the city, throughout the country. He was a maestro, a musician that everyone we respected looked up to. He was a founder of the Greater Works Musical Workshop Group. And he suddenly passed, so keep his family in prayer. As well as Mark Hall. Mark Hall was somebody who was a mentor to me as I grew up in the tough neighborhoods of Central Park. and always looked out for me, always said, you know, stay away from this. And he passed, unfortunately. And they both were connected, Mark Hall and Eric, through Noel. Noel Hall is a renowned musician throughout the country, played for Flared Hammond. And so we pray for their families, as well as the Hall family, who also lost a niece, At the same time so we're praying for that family tremendously because I know the loss of a child is just detrimental So Lord just continue to watch over this family. Thank you, you're not good the Eric from Buffalo but moved to Charlotte and and played for some of the largest churches in Charlotte, if not the country, when we did the Rise Up album here years ago. Matter of fact, I didn't know until the other day looking at some old tapes that Councilmember Wingo, before he was a councilmember, was the photographer. So I have all of these pictures that have his name on them. We put together almost 800 voices, black, white, You name it, he's fat Latino, everybody was there. Eric was the musician and we would fly him in from Charlotte every other weekend for one of the largest recordings that this city has seen. So for him to pass suddenly, thank you for acknowledging that. And I know that Council Member Wingo would like to speak on that. Thank you Mr. Chair. Just to share my sentiments regarding Mr. Reid as well. It takes someone who has developed their skill in music to understand and appreciate the genius that was behind Eric Reid's music and his playing and his ministry. And to be recognized, I was gonna talk about the same thing you were gonna talk about. But to recognize how much of an impact he made throughout the entire country, to the point where, from what I understand, Mr. Chair, and Council President, This was the largest choir that came together in such a short time in the country ever. You did that. And we had Brother Eric Reid and Noah Hall come in to serve as our outside musicians. And what I tell you, as a musician of over 25 years, maybe longer than that, I'm just not really willing to say how long, but as a musician for many decades, to sit and listen to how they're able to take this universal language and move people across the country is incredible. And when you take that type of gift and you use it to the edification of the community, and I'm not just talking about the black church community, I'm talking about the global community. The Bible does say that your gift will make room for you and put you before great men. And that's what Eric's gift did. It put him before great people. It put him before great crowds. God elevated him. And we might say God took him too soon, but God said now it's my turn to play music in my choir. So we thank God for the life and the legacy and the music of Brother Eric Reid. And I just pray that everyone at some point in your life just try and pick up an instrument. Try and learn how your brain will switch sides as you're playing music or as you're creating music. And just to lose that type of talent on this side just means that heaven gained it on the other side. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any others? Council Member, President Pro Temp's panel. Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts Father Joe Bain, who passed away unexpectedly this week. Father Joe was the longtime chaplain of the Buffalo Fire Department, and much more important than that, he was also the executive director of the Franciscan Center on Seneca Street in South Buffalo, which cared for and turned the lives around of Thousands and thousands of young people in this city. He's one of the most compassionate one most caring people I've ever come across and he is going to be incredibly missed any others All right. For all of those who have been mentioned, and of course, those who have given their life for the freedom of our country or any other country in the world, we pause for a moment of silence. We continue to remember our brothers and sisters in Ukraine. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Today we have a special presentation by Council Member Mitchell P. Nowakowski. he's got to go to CDS. Another one of those. Oh, yeah, they're all going to CDS. They got it for approval or something? Yeah, they had it for approval by March 8th. Oh, okay. So they're a few. Thank you. Well, hello, everyone. As you know, we are concluding June, which is Pride Month. So I wanted to make sure that I also acknowledged an organization that works with LGBTQ youth here in the city of Buffalo. And I'm with the executive director, Jack Cavanaugh, whose mother served as an at-large member here in these chambers. You could tell he's raised by a politician because he's a very good public speaker and he's a good advocate. And his mother did a lot of good things when she was here. you know, as a council member, and I certainly stand on her shoulders. LGBTQ youth are, I mean, one out of five youth experience bullying growing up, and they're twice as likely to commit suicide to their counterparts. So that really is to highlight the concerns that we have with LGBTQ youth trying to navigate the world and trying to safely be who they are as a person. growing up as a kid uh i learned the word gay from a tv show and i went to my local library to look it up and the librarian told me um i shouldn't look that up that word up because it was it was a bad word um so i roamed around the earth for 10 years thinking um being ashamed of myself and you know if we can have organizations that can teach people and kids Tools to not be ashamed of who they are and that they can live up to their god-given potential no matter who they are Where they live I'm going to certainly be supportive He does a host of wonderful activities that are after school and also just recently had a diversity problem so majority of kids throughout the city of Buffalo were able to and enjoy themselves so i wanted to make sure that it properly recognizes list Thank you, Councilman. It's always funny in this room, the first time I was in this room, I was five years old. My mom was elected to the City Council in 1995 as the first openly gay member of the City Council. And, you know, for me, and she was a board member of GLS at the time. And so, you know, coming back here to be able to just talk about what we do and receive this recognition is just incredibly meaningful. We've been around for 40 years. We serve over a thousand young people across western New York every year. majority of those are from Erie County and the majority of those are from the city of Buffalo. That work has evolved dramatically over the past 10, 15, 20 years, particularly as we receive more data information telling us how not only are LGBTQ young people at higher risk for suicide, homelessness, drug addiction, but particularly black LGBTQ young people are at even higher risks of suicide, homelessness, and drug addiction. And so by being able to be in the community, being able to be held up and recognized by our community leaders is really the most important thing that we can do so that they know that they're, as the Councilman pointed out, don't feel like there's something wrong with them. They don't feel like they're broken, you know, that what they are is a bad word. And I think that that's the most basic thing that we can do as community leaders is just let these young people know that they're seen, valued, heard, and loved every single day. And so we're always appreciative of just being able to be invited and, you know, honored in any way. You know, sometimes it can feel very, very thankless. I think anyone who's worked in nonprofit work knows that you just, you grind and you grind. And so being able to kind of get your head above water and know that what you're doing matters is really meaningful, both to myself and my staff that's here and a couple of our board members as well. So, yeah, no, I just, I really appreciate this. And we're actually moving into a new office. And so I'll make sure this goes right on our wall. So thank you very much. Before you go, this is Barbara Kavanaugh. Were you sitting somewhere in the front when she was sworn in? Do you remember? I was there. So it was freaking me out because I'm like, no, he's still a little kid. But your mother was so kind to me, and she was so kind to everyone. And when she was no longer here, there was a void. But I remember, because you weren't by yourself. It was another child, I believe. My older brother. I remember, I can tell you, I remember where you sat. I was five years old. I don't remember it that well. So I do. You were fidgety. You were fidgety while she was being sworn in, and there were two of you. And I just have to say, I have to say this, because when you just said it, how loving your mom was. So I know if she gets a peek down here, she'll be proud of you. Thank you. Appreciate you. Mr. President, just so in closing of Pride Month, if I could just say, have one minute of the floor to talk about a council member. It's a funny story. So as you know, I work for Council Member Rivera, fresh out of college, and who's been an LGBTQ advocate for a long time. So I started out in his office and the pride flags were on Elmwood, and I was fresh on the phones. Oh my God, if anyone's fresh on the phones, you know that you're taking a lot of hits. for the constituents that call that are very angry. So one constituent called and was furious that there were pride flags in the Niagara District. Furious, and he needed to talk to the council member. Wasn't gonna talk to the chief of staff, wasn't gonna talk to anyone. So I said, David, you know, there's a very angry constituent on the phone about pride flags, and Dave says, not a problem, Mitch. Zip him right to the office. So he gets called to the office. So I'm patiently listening outside the office, and I hear, uh-huh, mm-hmm. Sir, you can move. Happy Pride, everybody. Thank you for being here. All right. We know you love the state, but I know you have better things to do. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 13, 2023 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing none, we will hear the entire agenda. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review one of the items. Are we going from the top, sir? Mr. Chair, we're going to discharge items 83 and 86 out of resolutions. 83, 86. Motion to take them out of order. All right, motion to take them out of order. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 83, discharge item 23-878 and 23-889. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 86, discharge item 23-882 from Community Development. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number one, amend grassroots garden lease. Motion to approve items one, two, and three. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number four, a designated developer agreement for Hayes Reality LLC. Motion to send to CD items four through 19. Second by Council Member Bowman. On item four, this is the homeless shelter area. Yeah, so that people who are watching, this is a designated developer for a property at Genesee near Jefferson. Know that the neighbors have been rather concerned about the drop in center there. Just so that the public knows, the chairman opens this up in CD next week, it will be discussed. Everything is CD. item number 20 report itself 550 exchange motion to approve items 20 and 21 second by council member wyatt item number 22 report a cell 817 glenwood motion to send the cd second by council room wingo item number 23 report itself portion of 59 kelhoffer motion to approve items 23 through 25 second by council member no council item number 26 report itself 479 winslow motion to send the cd Second by Council Member Fairlew. Item number 27, BMWFA resolution. Motion to send finance items 27 through 29. Second by Council Member White. Item number 30, change order for Eastside Transfer Station Phase 2. Motion to approve items 31 through 41. Second by Council Member White. So that's including 30, just for the record. Items 30 through 41. 40 yep 41 motion stands they'll give you a second yep item number 42 certificate of appointment motor equipment mechanic motion to send the civil service my concern involvement item number 43 permission to accept 2021 2023 stop dwi funds Motion to approve items 43 and 44. Second by President Pro Temsken. Item number 45, appoint fire captain. Motion to send civil service items 45 through 47. Second by council member White. Item number 48, full store license 591 Wadden Avenue. Motion to send to legislation items 48 and 49. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 50. Exempts vacancies. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Boehme. Item number 51, appoint legal secretary. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Glumber. Item number 52, proposed agreement with Bencare Payroll Insurance and HR Solutions. Motion to send to finance items 52 through 54. Second by Council Member White. Item number 55, proposed agreement with PAL. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 56, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 56. through 59 second by 60. excuse me second by president pro temp scantler item number 61 notice of appointment bridge operating engineer motion to send civil service item 61 and 62. item number 63 notice of appointment council intern three motion to adopt item 63 and 64 second by councilman what miscellaneous item number 65 citizens audit for ny general election motion to send the cd item 65 Through 67. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 68, comments on special use permit 205 Lombard. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferlotto. Item number 69 is regarding 23-628 annual action plan amendment for Bray Miller. Mr. Chairman, I don't know if this is informational or this is... Yes, that's the informational one. What would you like? To receive and file. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 70, West End Toll and Purchase of Portion of Farmer Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Petitions, item number 71, Special Use 351, Guilford. Motion to send legislation City Planning Board, items 71 through 75. Second by Council Member Bowman. Submission list, Civil Service, item number 1, Appoint Personnel Specialist 1. Motion is to approve items one through and including three. Second by Council Member Wingo. Finance Committee, item number four, 2024 capital budget and four-year capital improvement program. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number five, Buffalo Crossing Guards Association collected a bargaining agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number six, 2023-2024 annual action plan. Motion to recommit. second by councilman Glumba at a number seven CNC technical solutions contract motion to approve so my counselor for a little And a number eight Board of Education salary recommendation motion By councilman Bowman and a number nine annual action plan amendment special economic development activity Okay, I believe this one is the motion to deny. Yes motion is to not deny And mr. Chair Councilmember let me get a second second by councilman Bowman. Mr. White. Okay, mr Chair and is in your district, of course and I respect what your decision is We know that there's been many business small businesses in our community Who have been very upset that it seems like they're not getting the relief that they need and to give one business a $500,000 is the wrong message that we want to send out. As I stated during the finance committee, no other grocery store came to us. We understand what we're trying to accomplish downtown, but you've been through to other cities where downtown grocery stores thrive. And it's really about the people, not about the store. And so again, I respect your decision, I support that decision, because at the end of the day, When we approve something like this, we're telling all these other businesses, even businesses in my district, who are desperate for money to rehab their community, rehab their business, to buy different equipment, things like that. They are desperate for money. Did we put the same effort and zeal into getting them money as we did Bray Miller as many times as come to finance? And you know, it's nothing against Bray Miller, but I'm talking about other businesses that need this same type of capital to be an ongoing concern. And so again, we must do the right thing by the people, by these businesses. I hope we can take this $500,000 and we can make sure these other businesses that need that money are able to access it. Thank you, Mr. Trier. Thank you. I will say this on this item, and I was going to send it back to committee. There was a majority that wanted to finish this today. I respect that. I've worked for this council, you all of these councils who puts me in this chair. I know the importance of a grocery store. Trust me. I live on Eastside. I grew up on Eastside. I know the importance. I know that there are those who feel like, and I've even read where it says that the fate of Bray Miller's rests with the Common Council. I vehemently say that that is an error. It's a private business. And I think it's unfair to make it as if this council does not vote for a $500,000 grant or loan, And then say their business is on our heels, it's not. It's on the business' heels at the end of the day. But $500,000 was supposed to go to smaller businesses. Now we had Beverly Gray, well they didn't show, but they did send a report in front of us, was supposed to be here last week. The reason we had Beverly Gray was for Supposedly to help smaller businesses. So if we couldn't find a place to send $500,000, where is Beverly Gray? Considering they're going to be coming back before us for more money. End of the day, this is not about Bray Miller personally, it's about business. And what we heard, this council heard when people came. The only person that came, one of the only people that came here talking about the employees and And I don't know whether I appreciate this or I felt kind of stung by this to say, you know, we got all these African American employees. That's the right thing to do. You don't get an award because you got African American employees. You're supposed to do that if they're qualified. They don't get a grant because you got people from the east side. You're supposed to do that. But at the end of the day, you don't build a downtown personal opinion. Buy a grocery store, you build it downtown, then the grocery stores come. And what we heard from the people living next door is that they don't shop there. They don't go get their daily groceries there. At the end of the day, I hope that Bray Miller survived. I want them to, very, very bad. Many people who called me were supporters of mine for 12 years. But at the end of the day, it's not about who was a supporter, it's about doing the right thing. And I personally feel, and I hope, and one of the things I was disappointed to read, was that this was the only place that they were waiting for money from. If I needed to keep my business afloat, I'm not waiting for months, two months on the Buffalo Common Council who did not bring this to the table in the first place to give me $500,000. I'm beating at every door. I'm selling everything in the store I can. I'm advertising, I'm going door to door, I'm knocking on doors. So this is not on the Common Council and I don't appreciate at the end of the day whether it's media or anybody else saying the fate of Bray Miller's is at the hand of this council. It is absolutely not. It's at the hand of the business owner. Council Member Wingo. Mr. Chair, thank you. We appreciate your sentiments, but the question that I had always had was, should the city, which is clear that we are not, but should the city give Bray Miller this $526,000 or whatever it is? Is there any type of clause that would have been in that agreement that would have mandated them to repay that money should they go out of business? And in my eyes, you know, we look at the sustainability of an infusion of funds like that. And if you give someone that type of money, where and how would they at that point sustain business if this money should not appear next year? We do know that they will say it was precipitated by the pandemic, but so are a lot of other businesses impacted adversely by the pandemic. And we are not giving, who we are not giving a half a million dollars to. So there's just a lot of reasons for us to pause. I cannot disagree with your sentiments. I cannot disagree with my colleague, Councilmember Wyeth's sentiments. And so therefore, I'm not going to buck, I'm not going to fight. It is what it is. I didn't necessarily agree either that they should receive this money because Mastin does not have a full-service grocery store today. We don't have a library today. Because we don't have these SBAs in place that are very well funded to help small businesses launch into the mainstream Business so we want to just express our sentiments as well that again to mr. President you have our support and and councilmember they went from a grant to a loan however, there's a larger loan on the company from a bank and their first and And there's LLCs involved. So if Bray Miller went down, what's the asset? Lettuce? There's no asset. The building belongs to a different owner, so there's no asset. councilmember nowakowski and thank you mr president just in closing because we had a really good conversation about this and i really want to untangle the argument from bray miller to the value statement of the city of buffalo that we need to have a downtown grocer with you know if we're going to build up density they all kind of work hand in hand i agree with you you need to have the density there to then support the business um especially the support the business model and i think moving forward that because Bray Miller closing and their absence of a grocery store will hurt urban economics of downtown Buffalo. We understand that. And we understand that not having a grocery store down there will be a kick in the shorts to people that live down there and who will be developing those areas. I know that my district, come January 1st, will inherit parts of downtown. And I appreciate your sentiment yesterday where you know that it's going to be tough to get a grocery store downtown, but you believe that anything is possible. Absolutely. And I want folks to know that this isn't just the council made a decision and say, see you later, here's a life raft. And that there are members of this council that have fortitude and that see forward of the importance of downtown. Because people forget that when you really study urban theory and urban economics, municipalities and thriving downtowns generate a large tax revenue that supports the entire city as a whole from downtown Buffalo. And in our vernacular in Buffalo, oftentimes we talk about downtown as it's this siloed area where it's foreign to us or it's not connected to neighborhoods. Downtown's a neighborhood just like Broadway-Fillmore. Downtown's a neighborhood just like Allentown. These are all neighborhoods that have their own needs and desires and have their own... priorities to make sure that they're successful. So I want folks as we move forward to also embrace the word downtown and understand that to be competitive regionally and to bring in, because we rely on that sales tax revenue. We need people at Chase, we need people in the restaurants, we need people to patron small business, we need people to live downtown in a dense urban area that rely on public transportation. That's what thriving cities do. And I wanted to separate that argument from the bray miller argument because multiple things can be true at the same time and i think that moving forward that i'm not going to give up the ship and i know neither will you even when you're not on this council that you'd like to see not a vacancy at that location but a grocery store thank you mr president i'd like to see a grocery store there i'd like to see a grocery store in maston so we all we're all on the same page all right next item community development item number 10 reported so 141 newberg Can we recommit? This is Lovejoy. Mr. Bowman. Can we recommit, please? Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 11, regarding police raid on home. Motion to send to the claims department. Second by council member Wingo. Item number 12, report itself of 473 atoms and portion of 469 atoms. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions and actually, I don't think in all of the time I've been here 12 years, have I paused a meeting to thank someone for buying a piece of property. This came before us and usually in the Ellicott District we do it as a designated developer. This homeowner who is here, who has been in committee, has adopted 11 children and is building a house. Her and her family, her husband are building a house So, I'm saying this because I've got press here and I hope somebody tells her story over and over because they have dedicated their lives to other people. So it's with, like, I'm just thrilled to be able to move City Land into her, to their hands so that these 11 children have their own place to live. and to play and to have space. And so thank you for being here. And like I said, in 12 years, I've never paused a meeting. But when you told me your story last week, I was like, well, we gotta get that approved. That's coming out of committee. So thank you, Ms. Littlejohn. So I want all my friends in the press not to do anything on Bray Miller and only do a story I heard. Next item. Item number 13, DDA for Elbor's Landscape Service. Motion to approve items. 13, 14, and 15. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number 16, Fuster License, 3323 Bailey Avenue. Motion to approve items 16 through 22 with conditions on 17, 21, and 22. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Claims, item number 23, Aaron Kurtz and 37,500. Motion is to approve items 23 through 33. Seconded by Council Member Wise. Resolution item number 76, fee waiver for flannel and football. Motion to approve item 76 through 78. Second by Council Member Ferriero. Item number 79, Commissioner Beats. Motion to adopt item 79 and 80. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 81, trailblazing sign for Ruth Wright. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, thank you. item number 82 urgent replacement of stolen accessibility meters motion to adopt second by councilmember nowakowski who has the floor thank you mr president i did state this during caucus but there was a story that i know many council members saw that where 90 meters were stolen in the city of buffalo and there was a significant portion that were handicap meters and with those handicapped and accessible meters that are taken away other people are parking those spots thus further insult to injury moving people with disabilities further from where they're able to park that's affecting their quality of life their safety and their Accessibility to working so I know that throughout this process It'll be a lengthy process of claims and insurance but we can't have people suffering and parking three blocks from where they did they deserve to perk our park and That's been designated for them. So I encourage on the city to find some funds to replace those first moving forward. Thank you, mr. President. Thank you And remember 84 ordinance amendment chapter 254 collateral loan broker motion send legislation Sending my counselor boy and a number 85 fee waiver for the Buffalo Irish Festival motion to approve by council members Scanlon Item number 87, support for Gerald Place Housing Development Fund Company. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member White, who has the floor. And thank you, Mr. President, and thank my colleagues for supporting this. Gerard Place has been a huge blessing to that part of the University District, offering so many services from childcare to helping as a woman shelter, to help women, clothing, food, and so on. And this is just another piece in which they're trying to expand and really provide services to the community So I thank them and thank my colleagues for supporting the efforts of Gerard place. Thank you. Thank you councilman Columbia when we're done. I wanted to revisit an item. Okay next item item number 88 Ordinance amendment chapter 496 unified development ordinance motion is sent to legislation What was the item you wanted I'd like to revisit item number 70, please I Item number 70, West End-Towin purchase of a portion of Farmer Street. Yes. Second by Council Member Golombet to re- If we could rescind the previous motion to receive and file and send it to community development instead and a copy to the real estate department. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Golombet. Motion now is to send the CD and real estate department. Second by Council Member Golombet. Any letters? That's it. Yep. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, July 5th, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, July 5th, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, July 5th, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, July 5th, 2023 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, thank everyone for coming out to a wonderful Juneteenth this year. We had a great celebration, again, one of the largest, second largest, but the best. celebration in the country and we thank everyone for sharing all the events that are coming out. And I want to say this too, Mr. Chair, we want to express our gratitude for our Department of Public Works for cleaning up Genesee, Best, and Fillmore, and the parks after those festivals. Because it's not us who's trashing our park. We understand a lot of visitors coming from a lot of places, and the totes every year seem to be inadequate. And there's not enough totes for us to put all of the waste in. But we thank, though, our workers and our lifters and those machine movers in our Department of Public Works for the great job you would not be able to tell if it weren't for the flags hanging on Genesee Besson Fillmore that the June Chief was there, but they do a great job every single year of cleaning up our districts. So, I thank our Department of Public Works Commissioner, Mr. Martin, and especially a huge thank you to our Department of Public Works Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Henry Jackson, who has always been very, very responsive when we made phone calls to him to have things in our communities and our districts cleaned up. All that to say we're going to be meeting again on July the 8th for our Mastin District breakfast town hall meeting. And of course, we serve a nice hot breakfast. We share information that's held at the Delavan Grider Center at 877 East Delavan at 9 AM. Again, that's July the 8th at 9 o'clock in the morning. The breakfast is free. The food is good, the information is great, and the fellowship is also fantastic. So please, anyone and everyone, come on out, share information, gather information. Again, it's town hall style. Ask questions, get clarity and understanding, because in all thy getting, we should all get some understanding. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That's your second scripture today. Anyone else? All right, okay, that's it. And just, Council President, just correction on announcement of committee meetings. It will not be Tuesday. Tuesday is July 4th, so it'll be Wednesday, July 5th, 2023 at the following times. Now which committee was, I mean, not committee. Committee on Civil Service is at 945. That's for all of you. Yes, all the committees. All right, so we will not be here for the 4th of July. So please don't show up. I won't be here. You won't be here? All right. Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Brian J. Bowman.