Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Council Member Francik. Here. Council Member Glombeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Forum present. Let's stand for the pledge. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands. under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, we are pleased today to have with us the presiding prelate of the Roman Catholic Church here in our area, Bishop Malone, who will be introduced by our chaplain. As some of you will remember from last year, we brought Bishop in as a spiritual father of the region. to just address and to be able to give a blessing. And we've decided, his office and mine, to make it an annual tradition. So he's here for his annual time with us. And as he joins us, we recognize that a place that's going through as much transition and change as our city is needs to remember that in all the newness, there are some things that don't change. And fathers and mothers are free to their part of the important fabric, and I believe he's part of that. Thank you so much, too. And as you all know, as father of my own Catholic community, we have a number of serious challenges we're working on now. This situation we're in, I think you know, is kind of an unwanted situation. inheritance that's come to me from the past, the abuse cases. I assure you we're working assiduously on this thing to bring healing and renewal. But thank you. I don't want to get into that theme with you now, but thank you all for your great service to the people of our city. I do follow carefully what's going on, and I know the challenges. I don't know them like you know them, but I realize there's a lot to it, and what you do from our perspective is certainly God's work bringing about his kingdom. Let us pray. Almighty and eternal God, you know the longing of people's hearts and you protect their rights. In your goodness, watch over those in public office, especially those here, and bless the work of their hands so that the people of our city and our region may enjoy freedom, security and peace. We ask you, Father, that our elected representatives and appointed officials be surrounded by the with and protected by your light. We ask that their every thought, word and action reflect their very best selves and serve the highest good for our city, our region. By striving for the common good, may they secure peace and security for the people entrusted to their care. May they always seek the ways of righteousness, justice and mercy, Grant that they may be enabled by your powerful protection to lead and govern with honesty and integrity. Father, you have given all peoples one common origin. Fill the hearts of humankind with the fire of your love and with the desire to ensure justice for all. By sharing the good things you give us, may we secure an equality for all our brothers and sisters. May they be an end to division, to strife and war, to every form of violence and exclusion. Look with tender mercy upon all those who bear the indignities of injustice everywhere. Sharpen our intellects to pierce the pettiness of prejudice, to perceive the beauty of true human brotherhood and sisterhood. Guide our minds to a meaningful understanding of the problems of the poor, of the oppressed, of the unemployed, of all in need of assistance here in Buffalo and everywhere. Guard our hearts against the subtle lure of earthly things and undo regard for those who possess them. May we hunger and thirst after justice always as we seek to follow your holy will. And with confident faith and loving hope, we make this prayer in your holy name. Amen. Bishop, thank you for being a part of our gathering today. And you mentioned very quickly, but thank you for your integrity and transparency, accountability, and being a responsible leader in our community. Thank you. Councilmembers, any memorials? Councilmember Golombé. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Former Riverside resident Marge Whitroll passed away. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. She's going to meet her husband, Eddie, who was a former Democratic, I believe, chairman in Riverside many, many years ago. Very, very good family. Anthony Tony Colicchia, also known as Mr. Pizza from Elmwood Avenue after a long illness passed away this past week. He was a good guy, generous guy. I've heard so many stories about him and the good that he did in his Westside community and beyond. Also, Russ McCarthy, a constituent of mine, passed away. another good guy you know neighborhood guy former saint john the baptist parishioner he's going to be very very sorely missed by his wife joan and his family and friends and last but certainly not least a very very good friend of mine that i got to know over the past several years roderick charles md dr charles passed away uh after he had a stroke about six months ago that he was overcoming. They had just moved down to Washington, DC area, and he unfortunately got sick while he was down there and in a matter of a few days, passed away. At the age of 90, Dr. Charles Rodd was one of the two first blacks to graduate from the University of Maryland at Baltimore with his medical doctorate, medical doctor. I used to have dinner with him on a regular basis, especially Thanksgiving dinner. And to give you the personality of him and the friendship and relationship that he and I had, I think I sort of kind of shared some of the story with you. I never knew that African Americans and macaroni and cheese was so important on Thanksgiving. Because I was always late to Thanksgiving dinner because I would volunteer at one of the churches in my district. So after several years, I... I got there on time the one year because they stopped serving it at the one church. And I said, Rod, how come you never told me? And he said, I don't want to share any macaroni and cheese with you. So, I mean, it was just a great guy. His funeral and service was yesterday. And just the testimonials that people gave and the caring that he had for people in the entire Buffalo community, he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his wife Mamie, also known as Deb, and also by his two children, Kimberly Trent and Todd Charos. Thank you, sir. Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to give condolences to the family of a high school classmate of mine at Seneca Vocational, Ronnie Neely. Really, really nice guy, suddenly passed. And also one of the latest murder victims, Geneva Mae Smith, who's 31 years old, who'll be funeralized at True Bethel. I wish I had a magic wand to stop these senseless murders. Young 31-year-old killed, leaves a daughter. And it's just senseless and I wish we had some plan to kind of address it, but it continues to plague our community, to plague our society, and we're just praying for that family. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Mr. President. I ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers the family of Joe Camizzi who passed away last week after a battle with cancer. Joe is the wife of Sue, the husband, his wife Sue, his son Michael and his late daughter Mariah. He also spent the past 35 years working at the Buffalo News. He had a wonderful family and friends there as well. And also please keep in our thoughts the family of Catherine Finnegan, who is affectionately known as Princess by her family and friends. She's the mother of eight, a long-time South Buffalo resident, and the mother of Rick Finnegan, who I know a lot of us know, who has been many years working at the Buffalo News. Thank you. And I echo for the homicide victim, one who was just buried a couple days ago, who left seven children, and she leaves eight. So our hearts even go out to these children who have found themselves suddenly without some of them, without either parent. And so we pause, and of course, we always remember our parents. service men and women and civilians who have given their life for the freedom of others across this world since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Before going to the agenda, we have a presentation by Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you so much. I have the distinct honor today to honor two young men, and I want them to come down, who have reached the level of people Bring your family and your leaders. This is a distinct honor when we seem to have in the city of Buffalo, in this area, a growing number of Eagle Scouts who continue to take on leadership roles in our community. And these two individuals... Winfrey Jr. It is my distinct honor for the Common Council to bestow upon you on this day and recognize these young men and your accomplishments in becoming Eagle Scouts. May you continue to make an impact in our community and our world. And I just want to say something additional for this. As I go through my master's program in organizational leadership, it is so critically important for us to encourage, support our young people and their leadership skills It's just something that we need more of today and less of the other things. When you have young men who are so dishonored, there are so many great men who have taken on this mantle and have risen to greater leadership in attacking our world. So I pray that you two will be the similar gentlemen who make a difference, not only to make your families proud, but to make the city of Buffalo. So on this day, we recognize Emmanuel and Ramon. Can we get a hand? And I also want to recognize the outstanding leadership for our local Boy Scout leadership. And one of the gentlemen right here, and I want him to come over and say a few words because, again, over the last several years, we've had, it turns out, a number of Eagle Scouts. And I just want you to speak because we want folks to know that scouting is very important. Yes. My name is James Morrell. I'm the leader for Group 139. We put through five Eagle Scouts in the last year. from 139. So let's give a round. These are our latest two and I'm really proud of these guys because they work really hard and it takes a lot to become an Eagle Scout. So thank you and thank you. And for Mr. Morrell to be able to lead that troop after he's on so many boards and in so many positions of leadership across this city is amazing in itself. So thank you. All righty. I believe that's all before the agenda, so we're going to be taking a couple of items, ladies and gentlemen, out of order. One so that we can get some families out to celebrate, I guess, if everything goes well. And then some people who are here for public hearing, we will also take yours out of order and so that we get the heavy lifting done in the beginning of the meeting. Motion to take items 1 and 29 out of order. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 1, appoint fire commissioner. This item is open. All right, the item is open and... Gentlemen, we have before us a nomination from the mayor for Mr. William Rinaldo. And normally we would send this to a committee. We're going to do it right now today because we need to ensure that our fire department has leadership, not that it has not had any. I want to be clear. However, we want to make sure there's somebody sitting in that office who's accountable to the people. And so I will allow for there to be any questions or comments from the council at this time. Councilmember Rivera. Mr. Chairman, normally as you mentioned, we do send it to committee, however, we have the candidate before us today and like to give him an opportunity to talk about Some his ideas for the department before any questions. All right allow that brief First of all, I'd like to congratulate Emmanuel and Ramon for their accomplishment I know what goes into that program themselves and their families should be very proud I don't know too many people stuff that didn't really store to Higher rank so nothing but the best for them. I First of all, thank you everyone for being here to share this day with me. I stand, rather sit here before you, humbled and proud to possibly be your next fire commissioner. The Buffalo Fire Department has a long and proud tradition of excellence, mostly due to the extraordinary efforts and sacrifice of those who came before us. And that is something I tell people at every opportunity, and it's something that I'll remind our membership on a daily basis. Mayor Brown, members of the Common Council, thank you for your trust, confidence, and courage to make this appointment. expedition fully aware of the challenges that lay ahead, and I pledge to be 100% committed to fulfilling my duties as party commissioner to the highest standard. Albert Einstein is quoted as saying, you have to color outside the lines once in a while if you want to create a masterpiece. That's the kind of creativity and inspiration myself and my team will draw on as we search for the way ahead, for laying strategy and overcoming challenges. To the community, I pledge that this organization will deliver the most effective and efficient services possible. incorporating best practices, current trends, and emerging technology to ensure that we remain one of the premier fire departments in the state, if not the country, now and well into the future. I pledge that public safety will remain in the forefront and will always be at the heart of any policy decisions, strategy, or direction this department will take in the coming year. To the members of the Fire Department, thank you in advance for your unwavering support. You are truly the tip of the spear. the men and women on the front lines in the trenches fighting every day to execute the organization's mission keeping this community safe and staying true to our motto that others may live it's because of you that people in our community can sleep well at night knowing that you stand ready and ever vigilant i pledge to both you and your families that i will do my utmost to provide you with the tools to succeed and return home safely at the end of every shift Last and certainly not least, to my friends and family, I thank you for your patience and unwavering support throughout my career, and particularly in this endeavor. Without your love and support, this day would never be possible. Thank you for all your sacrifices you made over these many years, from the missed birthdays and anniversaries to school plays and everything in between. I wish I could say I'll make it up to you, but you've already heard that a few hundred times. So instead, I'll just say something I don't say often enough. I love you and appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. I don't know if the applause is for your speech or for your love for your family. Council members, and I know you've met with each council member, I believe, or all that you could get to. So, Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I met with Mr. Ronaldo, Commissioner Ronaldo. The first moment I met him, I had the privilege of getting a couple of calls from people who – heard that he may have been appointed and they spoke glowingly of him. And the words that they gave me kind of represented the resume that I saw, which was a military man who was highly decorated. So to me that spoke that this is gonna be a person that's gonna have integrity, and he's gonna put in controls and process that will make sure that the firefighters and firewomen who are part of the Buffalo Fire Department will be exemplary in their training, in their leadership, in providing safety, to this medicine to the city of Buffalo. So I look forward to his leadership in addressing a number of the issues. He was very straightforward in saying what he was going to do and what he's gonna put in place. He's aware of the challenges and I look forward to supporting him in addressing each and every one. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Mungo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I met Bill just a couple days ago, and I met him with our Majority Leader, David A. Rivera. And we had the privilege of sitting there just talking about various things. And one of the things I noticed about him right off the bat was he was a humble man. But when you look at his 28-page resume, you can see all of the accomplishments that he's been able to commit in his life. But have you ever heard the term, uh, term, quiet storm? I believe that this man is a quiet storm. And if you mess with him too bad, I think he can show you exactly how he got all those credentials and accolades on his resume. But I believe that he is a great person just by meeting him. Not few, not many people can make the sort of impression, the sort of short time that Bill has. And I'm, I'm happy with his selection. I think it was just through osmosis. that him and the individual who brought him to the forefront met. I think it was just something that happened organically, and I'm just happy that he's here, and I'm pretty sure he's going to do a phenomenal job. And I'm glad that he's going to be able to put Commissioner on that long list of things and accomplishments that he's done in the city of Buffalo and other areas, serving our country and serving our city all of those years. And then when you look at him, you can't tell he has over 70 years of experience. i wanted to make sure i pointed that out i don't know which one is his brother his father but um he has seven years of experience and we think that he's going to be a great addition and we're just happy to have him thank you mr chair thank you sir customer president Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad that there will be a new tiller at the helm of the fire department, which is desperately in need of leadership at this point. And probably one of the happiest people in City Hall has got to be Kevin Helfrich, because he had to do two jobs. He had to be parking commissioner and also very difficult to try to manage the fire department, which we need to talk to Mr. Rinaldo in my office about dealing with the overtime question. dealing with filling some of the leadership posts to be, to make the fire department to be back on a direction that's so necessary as one of the most, the second, you know, uniformed personnel in the city that are so critical to life, property and safety. We had an excellent conversation. I asked him, what was your most difficult moment as a firefighter? And that was going back in the early days because he started in 1982. Around that time there was that terrible propane explosion that occurred in the southern part of my district. A number of firefighters were killed and it was just a real shock to the entire city and the community. So he remembers that very, very well. So he's got that sensitivity, he's got the experience and knowledge. I think as Mr. Lingo alluded, he's no showboater. And also I looked at his resume, he's got a military background, but he also teaches or taught in military science. So he talked about, Mr. Golombek would appreciate this, some of the great battles in world history. I know you love that. Influence him, so we had a nice conversation on that sidebar as well. So he's a well-rounded individual who also served his country, and so I will enthusiastically vote for Mr. Rinaldo. Thank you. Once you talk to Councilmember Franczak about history, you were in, you had history. It was over. Anything else, Councilmember Rivera? Councilmember Rivera? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Certainly our thoughts are with the former commissioner who was with us, who has since resigned from his position. We discussed the challenges. During our committee meetings for any commissioner that's coming on challenges with overtime with staffing civilian firemen attrition and it was very difficult to find a candidate and I think Heaven health for looking deep and I thought it was a great idea when they came back and they found somebody with his qualifications He has come up through the ranks in the book in the Buffalo Fire Department retired Certainly, he has, I think that gives him a little bit of freedom. He is not concerned about any issues. He's retired. He's not coming back into the department when he leaves here. So he doesn't have to worry about the decisions he makes. They're independent decisions. And I like that idea. Certainly, he has to surround himself with people. I don't want to see him burned out like the other commissioners that left before him. It is a very difficult job, it's very demanding, and we have seen a turnover in the fire department over the years. And the expectancy of a commissioner in the fire department has been very, very short. And hopefully, and we asked that question when he was in office, how long do you expect to be here? And he says, as long as the mayor wants me here. So he's going to be here for a while. I commend you. I assume the men and women of the fire department have much respect for you. We're looking forward to working with you and to dealing with the things that come before the Common Council. There was an audit that was before this Common Council that's still outstanding that the previous deputy commissioner was working on, and that's something that's still before this Common Council. We wish you all the best. We congratulate you, and certainly your family that's here with you today are very proud You married. Thank you very much. Thank you, Governor. All right. Now, I know our speeches are longer than probably your tenure will be. I know we take it like five years. But I do want to say this, that I did the same thing. I had all these text messages. I think I even showed you one from people saying, hey, if this is the guy, he's the guy. And it was from your firefighters. That's important. One of them even promoted you because they said... He's a general. And when I told you that, you said, no, I was a colonel. So they're already promoting you. We hear anything else, council members? All right, motion. Motion is to approve. All right, motion to approve, second by the president pro temp, Christopher P. Scanlon. And it is unanimous. And so I would like to welcome to the floor the newest fire commissioner. I got a word upstairs that you are Latino. Uh, no. No, I'm not. Oh, sorry. So you got one up there you need to demote then, because he made you not only a general but Latino, and I was gonna do this whole thing in Spanish. Okay, thank you. You raise your right hand, and repeating these words, I, William Rinaldo, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of the fire department commissioner of the city of Buffalo, according to the best of my ability. Commissioner Welk. It is official. Buffalo has a fire commissioner. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Commissioner. All right. We'll let all the press. I know they just want to stay for the whole meeting and enjoy themselves. Yeah, I'm just going to let everybody get out. All right. Well, Senator Commissioner, his first business is getting the hallway clear. That's his first order of business. All right. Back to the agenda. Item 29 out of legislation. Public hearing naming the suspension bridge and golf course the PJ McParland bridge Motion open to public hearing motion open public hearing second by councilmember wingo. This is open Is there anyone here to speak if we could just clear the back hallway get everybody out to the hallway? There we go. All right. Is there anybody here to speak on this item? That's before us councilmember Scanlon anything. All right Motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close the public hearing. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Next item. Item A, B-Cart Contract Amendment. Oh, I'm sorry, gentlemen. The late files are in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting. all right uh do it again for me sir item a b car contract amendment motion to approve motion to approve second by council member fialetto item two two buffalo river designated cargo superior elevators local landmark motion is sent to legislations items two three and four hearing dates set for july 17th at 2 p.m all right second by council member fontana item five amendment and sale portion of providence street Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 6201, Allegan, extend DDA. Motion to approve items 6 and 7. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 8, Report of Sale, 87 French. Motion to send the CD, items 8, 9, and 10. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 11, Report of Sale, 72, Rulon. Motion to approve Items 11 through 14. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 15, Report of Sale, 318-392, Wilson. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 16, report of sale vacant land, Berries, St. Paul, and 938 Ellicott. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Friar Leto. Item 17, adoption of Buffalo Local Waterfront Revitalization. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 18, appoint complaint clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 19, annual audit plan 2018-2019. Motion to receive and file items 19 through 21. Seconded by Council Member Frenzik. Item 22, follow-up audit report. Motion to approve. Motion to send to finance item 22 and 23. Item 24, change in contract. Hold on, hold on. Council staff, I really need your help. We've got to clear the chambers. With the fan blowing, we just can't hear. All right, proceed. Item 24, change in contract. GHD, Erie Bays Marina. Motion to approve items 24 through 35. Second by Council Member Fernandez. Item 36, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 37, appoint police captain. Motion to send civil service items 37 and 38. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 39, six-month follow-up to audit report. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 40, appoint laborer two. Motion to send civil service items 40 and 41. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 42, mobile food truck. Motion to send the legislation items 42 through 46 second by president put some scam item 47 auction scrap equipment motion to approve My customer window item 48 appoint junior collection officer motion to send the civil service items 48 through 50 Second my customer for your letter item 51 proposed agreement say yes education motion to approve items 51 through 53 and my customer for a load 154 liquor license and Motion to receive and file items 54 through 56. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 57, appoint legislative aide. Motion to adopt items 57 and 58. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 59, notice appointment temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 60, notice appointment seasonal. Motion to receive and file items 60 and 61. Second by Council Member White. Item 62, SEQR negative deck. 1143 Elmwood motion to adopt item 62 through 64 so my cuss word for 1165 response to concerns charter public access channels motion to send finance second by councilman Fontana I'm 66 request to speak motion to send a CD alright CD right right right second my counselor in Phila item 67 petition name Niagara branch library Mr. Chairman, I'd like to speak on this item. Yes, sir. The hearing date is set for July 17th at 2 p.m. The Hispanic Heritage Council had approached me a while back about naming the Niagara Branch Library after a Hispanic who had served in the community for many years. They facilitated the process, held community meetings, and nominated names. After they nominated the names, they put together a selection committee that would vet the candidates. They've since came up with the name of Isaiah Gonzalez. He is a pillar in the community that came here in early parts of the century. We'll be discussing his career here in the city of Buffalo. He passed on in Florida later on. But I want to thank the Hispanic Heritage Council for doing all of the work They came to me they put the process in place and they put the committee in place and these are the names They came back to so thank you very much as an Hispanic Heritage Council that is going to ledge for public hearing and July 17th at 2 p.m. All right. Thank you, sir. So my customer friends 168 zoning map amendment 1143 Elmwood motion to approve items This is going to legislation and see and planning board yep second by councilmember beer little committee civil service item one Appoint complaint clerk motion to approve items number one two three four five six Second by Majority Leader. Item 6, notice of apartment temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to receive and file items number 6, 7, 8, and 9. Only an accountant calls out every number. Second by Council Member Fontana. Finance Committee, item 10, audit report, internal controls, divisional licenses. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 11, permission to enter agreement for tire disposal. Motion to approve with conditions. Conditions are on file. Well, essentially it was that they come up with a program to remove the rims from the tires. We don't want to be paying per ton for the rims when that's an asset that we could actually scrap and make money from. So we paid a... Throw out metal which I don't want to do with taxpayer dollars So we're asking that they remove the tires from the rims that only tires be placed into the bin Not rims you've got it with those conditions second by customer work item 12 from your extension agreement motion to approve second by council member Rivera I am 13 2017 2018 second quarter gap sheets response. There's no objection We'll motion to receive in file 13 through and including 16. Okay All right, seconded by Council Member Franza. Community Development Committee, Item 17, Disposition of Real Property, 11 St. Paul. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Fairland. Item 18, report of sale 296 to wit. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Franzek. Item 19, Promise Land Church intends to purchase lots. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 20, report of sale 637 Broadway. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 21, report of sale 48 and 50 St. Paul, 938 Ellicott. motion to receive in file 21 and 22 second by president pro temp scam I'm 23 approval of banner and say of st. Paul mall North motion to recommit second by councilman preload of composes one second thank you I was just checking to see if one of the items Make sure it didn't need a public hearing. All right. Thank you, sir. Legislation Committee, Item 24, Special Use Permit 1669, Hurdle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 25, Zoning Map Amendment 1625, Fillmore. That originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 26, Zoning Map Amendment 482, Howard. Motion to recommit. Seconded by our Majority Leader. Item 27, special use permit 228, Allen. Motion to approve with conditions that were filed with the clerk. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item 28, special use permit, use 57, Ridgewood. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item 30, permission to authorize model small cell franchise agreement. Motion to recommit. All right. Recommitting this was signed by Council Member... Scanlon. Can I ask what, um, I just... We were waiting for Mr. Finn to come back and he didn't come back, so... With the... With the small cell franchise... With the amounts? Yeah, he didn't... So, yeah, he sent it. Did he send it? Did he send it to all the council members? Oh, no, he should have distributed them to all the council members. But when a council member asks for something, everybody should know. So that they know. Basically, and we have... where is that at? He did send, they just handed it to me today. Yeah. But it had the prices of the other districts. Council Member Frioletto? I know he contacted my office. I think he was trying to, he was contacting the different council offices. Him and I had discussed it. I was okay with it, talking with him, but I don't I don't know how my colleagues are, but I know he was trying to reach out to everyone earlier about it. Yeah, I don't know what was in there. I don't know what it says. So do we have a copy of it? Because we want to start collecting that revenue. You can hold it in abeyance. Yeah, let's hold it in abeyance. Let's get everybody a copy as quickly as we can down to this floor. Because that's revenue that the city could be receiving. It's in Minitrack. It's in Minitrack? So they're saying it's right here. Let's find where it's at. It's here, right? We just click the... What was what the council was waiting on was what was handed to me in my hand. I don't see which were the comparables of other cities. That's in miniature. Let's hold it in advance and come back and make sure we have it. I want you to see that number, but I want to get it done. All right. Motion order bears second by council member. Why? Item 31, tire handler license 2170 South Park. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Pantana. Item 32, used car dealer 2078 Genesee. I'll defer to the District Councilmember for 2078 Genesee. We can recommit it. Recommit. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 33, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 337, Preservation Standards. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item 34, Final Supplemental Generic Environmental Impact Statement for Green Code. 34 and 35, motion to adopt. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 36, Local Law, Interim Number 1, Buffalo Charitable Gifts Reserve Fund Taxes. Credit charter amendment. There are no objections. Motion to approve items 36, 37, and 38. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 39, use 355 grant. Motion to approve with conditions as submitted by the District Council. Second by the Majority Leader. Thank you. item 40 319 south walk street designated kensington high school as local landmark motion to approve say my cousin wingo item 41 ordinance amendment chapter 337 preservation standards motion receiving file and by councilman fronten 42 property managed license 42 and 43 if there are no objections motion to approve. So my counselor Wingo item 44 national grid rate increase motion receipt and file. So that comes from front panel resolutions. Item 69 inquiries regarding city lawn care. Motion to adopt remainder to finance second by councilman. Item 70 receding issued bond authorization by repealing various bond resolutions motion to send to finance I can buy comes where plants and I'm 71 transfer and funds motion to approve item 71 and 72 My calls went front and item 73 64 Fillmore Avenue motion to send alleged city planning board They go back comes my friends. I am 74 relief from trucks for Scoville Avenue motion to send the CD I Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 75 is withdrawn. Item 76, opting out of RPTL 485A. Motion to send to legislation item 76 and 77. Second by Council Member White. Item 78 has been withdrawn. Item 79, said public hearing, St. Paul Mall Properties. Motion to adopt item 79 and 80. All right. Second by Council Member White. Item 81, permission to hang banners on Niagara Street for Hispanic Heritage Month. Motion to approve item 81 through 83. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 84, set public hearing, abandonment sale of a portion of Providence Street. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Stanton. Item 85, waive permit fee for Highgate Heights Elementary School. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 86, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 86 and 87. Seconded by Councilmember White. JUST HAVE THIS ONE ITEM, GENTLEMEN, THAT WE'RE WAITING ON. IS IT BEING REPRODUCED? ALL RIGHT. COUNCILMEMBER WIGHT? CAN WE GO BACK TO ITEM NUMBER 69, RESOLUTIONS? MOTION TO REVISIT ITEM 69. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER PONTOS. I'D JUST LIKE TO BE ADDED TO THAT RESOLUTION. WE CONTINUE TO HAVE PROBLEMS WITH People are not maintaining their lawns and their properties and I'm you know I applaud councilmember Fontana for putting forth this resolution to look at Other ways how we can address that issue and make sure that our communities are looking vibrant and not looking like a trash bill Thank you. I agree that a guy next to my house right now hasn't cut his grass about the house at auction brought the house at auction and Called him other days in New York So when you go cut the grass, he says he didn't know. Somebody asked me whether I'm going to cut the grass. I said I'll choke on the chicken bone first. He needs to cut his grass. So I'm not paying him. Another grown man's voice comes remember Scanlon. Thank you. Could we revisit item number 29 in legislation item number 29? You want to revisit? Yes, please motion to revisit item 29 second by councilmember why thank you at first I want to apologize I was Speaking about another issue with councilmember glum back when this came up earlier and then you called on me to make sure I was Ready to approve and I thought I was being called out for speaking like I was back in grade school but um this This item is a renaming of the bridge in Cazenovia Park on the golf course after Patrick P.J. McParland, who's just a wonderful man who spent four decades working for both the City of Buffalo and the Olmstead Parks Conservancy, maintaining Cazenovia Park, and in particular its golf course, and just doing an incredible job at it. In addition to that, he... Couldn't begin to tell you how many summer youth workers he supervised over the decades He was in that park and I was one of them and so he was able to tolerate me for a couple of summers He he deserves an honor like this So I'm thankful to the Olmstead parks Conservancy for beginning this and I think my colleagues were voting in favor Of this great honor for mr. McFarland. Thank you, sir. All right gentlemen coming before you now the comparable cities I'll bring one up to the chair in just a second. I did quickly review it. Someone was here from the department. I'm going down just in case there's a question. Normally we wouldn't do this, but we're coming toward recess, and I want to get as much done before so we don't have to have any special meetings. So if you see it, and I would like to make sure this gets filed so that the public can see this. I think that's important. So I like to get this stuff in early so the public nothing, I don't want anything hidden from the public. As you see Dallas, Texas per poll, and this was a question of, the question was how much are other municipalities charging for the small cell to be placed on top of the polls. Houston, Texas 2,000 to 2,700. San Antonio 1,500. Island Park 2,400. Milwaukee 1,800. Boston 2,500. San Diego, 4,000. Glendale, Arizona, 3,400. And Scottsdale, Arizona, 3,600. Then there is a state college park at 400 to 500. Any questions, gentlemen, council members? Council Member Rivera? Thank you very much, President. I'm looking at the term of the agreement. Some are 25 years, some are five, three. What are our terms? The ones that's in front of us? What's the terms? Three years. Three years. So they would have to renew after three years and pay the fee over again? They do have to renew after three years. Every one year you pay the fee. So they pay this fee every year? Every year. Come on now. I apologize. This is the team that actually worked on it. Okay. I'm just the pretty face. Okay. You've got to state your name. And we're in deep trouble. That's right. Yeah, and when you come down, just state your name for the record, what department or whoever you're working for. My name is Caitlin Collins, and I'm here representing mobility. It looks like there's an annual fee per attachment, $500, and a $2,000 fee for... is not included. Oh, I think that's also annual, and that's for attachments and non-city owned. Move that mic right in front of you so we can make sure, say that again? 2000 and city owned. Okay. You're losing me. Just, I want to know exactly just look in the contract if you can and give me exact numbers. Okay. Franchisees would be required to pay the city an annual fee per small cell attachment system to city facilities in the right of way in the amount of $2,000. Subject to annual increases outlined in Chapter 175, Fees of the City Code. Okay, is that clear to everybody? Did everybody get that? Okay, so it is the annual fee of $2,000. All right. Council Member Fontana? To the Speaker, if the company, if somebody was here two weeks ago or a week ago and said we were way off base, where do we get the number from? And do you think as a result of us receiving this spreadsheet that we're kind of on par with other cities of like size and nature? So that's a tough one, counsel. Just state your name. Adam Walters, Philip Seidel, representing Mobility. I will tell you that for New York, upstate cities, that's a pretty high number. And at least some of the carriers I know were here at the Legislation Committee expressing that they felt that number was out of line. I can only tell you from Mobility's perspective, we're comfortable and we're ready to move forward and we want to move forward. What's Mobility? Mobility is a tower company, if you will. They build. infrastructure for national carriers and they do have a contract with the national carrier for a build-out in Buffalo say again who pays who pays us them or you Oh mobility pays the fee they do and you're comfortable with it they are comfortable with it and they are here today to say they would very much like you to move forward I think that's I mean an industry expert is here that builds the towers and pays the bill they're comfortable with it council members any other questions All right, I'm not going to do a whole public hearing on this. We've already been to committee. You know, I wanted to make sure these numbers are what we asked for, but we're not going to start from scratch. So thanks for being here. But we, unless council members have another question. Council Member Franczak. So it looks like the annual attachment rent, Buffalo's like middle of the pack. Yes. Because you have a high of 4,000 in San Diego, like you said. 400. 400, right. So we're kind of the middle of the range here. Yeah, exactly. So, Council Member Ferver? Mr. Chairman, when you asked for comparables, I was thinking comparables in a sense of cities, the size of the city of Buffalo in terms of population. comparing us to San Diego is, I don't know the population in San Diego, it's probably more than a million. We're worth 267,000 people. So when we ask for comparables, let's compare oranges to oranges and apples to apples. Going forward, at least when you ask for comparables, give us some comparables that... Maybe we better be a little bit more... descriptive of what what we want but at this point I asked for it and you know I'm satisfied we have a million people in the county we have a million people in the county yeah exactly and I think we're ready for a vote but do you have something significant sir to add to and then I want to move on and vote it up or down sorry Robert McDowell budget director we've done a few of these in my previous occupations at being a CFO of different food district and most of these fees are in the $2,000 to $4,000 range. Only caveat I would ask is that usually it's a five-year term instead of a three but the dollar value is in the range that I've seen before and I think it's appropriate. Apples to apples. Mike? Unless you got something brand new to tell us. You got anything? The only reason I'm pushing this is because I want to get as much out of the door as possible before August. So we're not, and I definitely don't want the city to lose a nickel of revenue. Council Member Watt. I just wanted, since we had a budget director, what are we looking at, Mr. Budget Director, as far as annual income to the city? He didn't, did you hear him? He's asking you, budget director. Mr. Budget director. He missed it. My friend was talking to him. Sorry about that. What are we looking at as far as annual income to the city? I have not seen the contract. I'm sorry. I will definitely look at it and confer with Mike, and we'll get back to you. That's a good question, because that wasn't in the budget. No, we need to know. I mean, because I know that they talked about the number of polls, but at least to have to know that number because, you know, if we're looking at a three-year contract, which I think is okay to start, I wouldn't want to go long-term because I don't know if tomorrow or next year the price will start increasing and we'll be sliding to a five-year contract as opposed to renegotiating after three years. The revenue that we've – Restate your name, sir. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Michael Finn, the city engineer. Okay. THE REVENUE THAT PUBLIC WORK PROJECTS AS PART OF THIS UPCOMING FISCAL YEAR IS APPROXIMATELY $125,000. NEW SPEAKER Okay. NEW SPEAKER Okay. NEW SPEAKER So not a million. NEW SPEAKER I was hoping it was a million. NEW SPEAKER How many polls is that? How many polls are we talking about generally? NEW SPEAKER When I was in third grade, they handed me a calculator and I could not do math in my head. NEW SPEAKER He said he's an engineer. NEW SPEAKER Give me one second, though. NEW SPEAKER I'm sorry. NEW SPEAKER I'm sorry. NEW SPEAKER I'm sorry. NEW SPEAKER I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. McDowell. Is that all? And that's a conservative estimate. There are carriers who are talking to us about 75 off the bat. So we looked at it from a conservative standpoint. We'd all like to see more. I think the carriers would as well. Hopefully we'll exceed that. Thank you. All right. All right. It's in your committee. No objections. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Just one quick question for Mr. Finn. Mr. Finn, these are wood poles only. They're not going to put these on decorative light poles like on Porter Avenue or Clinton Street or Lovejoy Street, correct? The. The fee that's set up is $2,000 for attachment to city poles. Right. For attachment to wood poles, there's a lesser fee because those are all owned by National Grid. But is there a possibility you're going to go on Richmond Avenue and put something on a pole that Dave Rivera put up or a pole that I put up on Lovejoy Street? There is a public review process for all of the locations that are to be submitted where the public and council members can have input on where these are located. And many of the carriers who we've discussed with have, giving us assurances that they're not interested in having these in locations that are highly visible when they can move a block over and still get the same service. So it'll be a back-and-forth through the permitting process. We'll be able to try and make everybody happy. Thank you. All righty. Councilmember? Councilmember Wingo. It may be a very, very, very weird question, but being that all these things are going up all over the place, I'm concerned about radiation or what type of... Waves these things are emitting that could potentially affect or harm or hurt the constituents and the residents in the community You know, I was always cognizant of the fact that when you come to the city All of our wires are all exposed in front of the houses But then you go out to the suburbs and higher-end areas and all the poles are hidden And here we are talking about putting up all these cell towers. I'm curious as to have you done any type of research that would inform us as to how much Radiation or waves that these things are emitting into the community being that they're coming up all over the place now. Oh, yeah, so may I just answer? I don't know if that's is that for the city engineer? Is this who works for us? I want to get from the city engineer. I can answer briefly the FCC federal communication commission. oversee the health and safety of all the equipment and certify to it. They actually prohibit local law from superseding that because they put so much effort into it. Her specifications are required that everything that's installed is FCC certified so that we have that backing from a public health perspective that the federal government is doing their due diligence to oversee the equipment. So the equipment is being installed and it's within FCC guidelines, but do we still know some folks are more susceptible to cancer than others? Maybe those levels in certain areas now that they're installing those towers May be a little bit more than those folks would like to be exposed to It's just I think I would that would be good for us to know exactly how much they're emitting Yeah I would I would want to know They're installing a tower on the corner of my house my street or back my house or whatever the case is I'd like to know so I'm just want to know I just want to know if we're going to publish that information even though it's within the FCC guidelines or or regulations, I still want to know. We can easily handle that as part of the application process. All righty. So item number 30, my motion, out of legislation, my motion is to approve. All right, motion approved, seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Talking real fast now. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service Tuesday, July 3rd, 945 AM. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development Tuesday, July 3rd, 1 PM. Committee on legislation Tuesday, July 3rd, 2 PM. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Councilmember Fialetto. Thursday, July 5th at North Park Academy, my office and State Senator Chris Jacobs are sponsoring a free Buffalo Philharmonic concert. There's going to be food trucks. Last year, Councilmember Wyatt joined us. We'd love to have you again. And that is Thursday, July 5th, and the concert starts at 7 p.m. Thank you. After 4th of July. Councilmember Fontana. Thank you very much. July 13th at Fontana's Grove, the 20th. Second, annual Lovejoy District picnic is going to occur from 4 to 7 p.m. $5 admission, get you all the beer, pop, food you want. It's a fun time. I subsidize it, and it's a good time for everybody. So we're playing all the residents from the district to come down and have a good time at the picnic once again. All right. The 13th. Anybody else? No breakfast, no lunch, no dinners? All right. Hearing none, motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilman White. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate you.