Three, two, one. Roll call. Roll call. Councilmember Faralletto? Here. Councilmember Fontana? Present. Councilmember Franzak? Here. Councilmember Golombet? Here. Council President Pridgen? Not key. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. States of America to the Republic. Our chaplain has remained standing, the Reverend Al Warner.
 The last time I was in chambers I talked about the power of good news. Scripture in Jeremiah 17, 6, 7 and 8 says, He will be like a bush in the wasteland. He won't see prosperity when it comes. He'll dwell in the parts, places of the desert and the salt land where no one lives.
 Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in Him. He'll be like a tree planted by the water that sends out its roots by the stream. It doesn't fear when heat comes. Its leaves are always green. It has no worries in a year of drought and never fails to bear fruit." The first line, he will not see prosperity when he comes. We can live in a time where we're so set on how things have been that we are unable to see change, positive change as it comes.
 The power of good news is interesting to me today. Most of you know that when I'm here, I'm with my wife Deb. But two weeks ago, she was diagnosed with Bell's palsy. That was not a good day. Last couple of weeks, we've been wrestling with that. And you say, well, where's the power of good news in that? Well, the first doctor diagnosed her on Sunday, the 23rd, with a stroke. The good news was, five hours later, they re-diagnosed accurately Bell's palsy. That seemed like good news suddenly.
 This morning we were at the ophthalmologist and the good news today was that she could close her eye. That doesn't seem like much to all of us on a normal day. But to us today, that was incredibly good news. I want to tell you that when you look for good news, you'll find it. If you look for bad, it's everywhere. It depends on where you're focused. You will find what you look for.
 And this scripture says there's all kinds of good things to look for, but you have to have your eyes peeled. You have to have your eyes zoned. There is good news to celebrate, but if you're not looking for it, you'll miss it easily. And that's where discouragement sets in, depression, and sometimes hope deferred. Would you pray with me?
 Father, thank you so much for the good news that Deb and I have had over the last couple of weeks. It seems like it was sad and bad news, but sometimes in the midst of the desert, the oasis seems sweeter than ever before.
 Lord, I pray for each person here today, not just the council members, but everybody in the council chambers and the ones that will watch this on television. I thank you that, Father, even now that you'll give them eyes to see signs of hope and light around them. Lord, it's easy to get overwhelmed by the negative, by the bad, by all the other stuff, by all the sounds and noise, but above all that, I pray eyes to see, to identify.
 So that when changes come, we're looking for the positive. We're looking for the direction that you're giving. Thank you, Father, for this council session. Thank you for all the things that are going to happen, all the things that are accomplished. And, Father, I pray there's going to be an amazing time today of us knowing you better because we have. Give wisdom, direction, and thank you for all of that in your precious name. Amen. Council Members, any memoirs?
 House Member Glumbach. Thank you Mr. President. Sarah Ogden, a long time Riverside resident, passed away. Mother of Keith Ogden who now lives in South Buffalo. But big Riverside family, wonderful family. I knew them from Riverside and from All Saints Church. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends.
 And as I mentioned before, one of the things that's tough about the job that we have is the people that we get to meet. And there's a woman, I think she was 96 years old, Lauren Simon, that passed away. Just a wonderful, sweet woman, the type that we feel bad when...
 something like this happens to. And once again, that's the hardest part of our job, I think, in many regards. And last but certainly not least, Laura Kozak passed away after a battle with cancer. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends in the Black Rock neighborhood. Any others? How to remember why? This is a little bit unordinary, but six years ago, my daughter passed away on this day.
 I just want to remember her today but I also want to thank my colleagues who are here who each and every one came to her celebration of home going and I also want to recognize our former colleague mr. McCurdo who was there but I just want to acknowledge this council and thank them for their support on that day I will never forget it so god bless you I believe the dad of Howard Zimski
 past and so we're remembering him also. And to those who have given their life for our country and for the freedom of others since our last meeting, we pause in these chambers for all of the names called for a moment of silence. Thank you. We do have one special presentation today from the Juneteenth Committee and the person who is here will come with their presentation.
 and we'll introduce we have a portable now I'm really not sure who's getting this award but you can come down and tell us who's getting it on behalf of the 14 or the 44th I should say the 44th annual Juneteenth Festival and the Juneteenth parade
 I stand before you with the count with the Juneteenth president Mr. Marcus Brown and yours truly Patrick Cray Juneteenth parade chair to present this award to our council president really and this is for the best float outstanding display
 Outstanding display of craftsmanship and teamwork, Juneteenth of Buffalo 2019. Obviously, I didn't know until days of reading the challenge.
 that we have won, but it really wasn't on me. The concept came from the staff who they came up with it and I just had to find a way to pay for it. But they actually put this together, these young people who work in my office, so really all of the accolades goes for them. And Tiana Tawana has already said she's gonna put this in her office.
 It's not going in our office, it's going in the hallway. But thank you all for allowing this council, and I don't know if you know, every Juneteenth, right before Juneteenth, is actually David Franczak, who announces it every year here on this council floor, and more and more are participating, and we're very, very pleased and proud to receive this. The only thing we regret is that Council Member Wingo is not here to see this moment. Thank you.
 All righty. Any other presentations, councilmembers?
 All right. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 25, 2019 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the agenda in full. Not taking away your right to pause our meeting if you did not get a chance to review one of the late files. Mr. Majority Leader. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 76 out of order. 76? Oh, excuse me.
 Item 12, item 12. Okay. Second by the President of Pro Temp, Christopher P. Scanlon. Item number 12, appointment of city clerk. Item's open. Item is open. There is a name of the clerk. We can do a voice vote, obviously, before we get to the vote.
 the the name that is before us if this council chooses to do so will be from what we know in known history the youngest clerk of the city of buffalo a lot of people do not realize that everything from birth
 to death that occurs in the city of Buffalo on the official record will carry the name of the person who is voted in. So when your children are born, it will have that name. When you get married, it will have that name. When you pass, it will have that name.
 years away from now it will have that name as long as that person is the city clerk and if this person is voted in it would also be the first female african-american in the city's history to hold such an office to hold this office
 Council members, the name before us is Tiana Marks. We'll go with a voice yes or no, and if there's a short comment, we'll allow it. Council Member Fontana. For a short comment?
 And your vote. And I'd like to nominate the name of Tiana Marks for city clerk, as well as speak highly of her credentials. Tiana, no doubt about it, I thought she was going to be the councilman of the Mastin District when Damone left. I was pushing her so hard. I said, come on, Tiana. I talked to her every day at lunchtime. Please, come on, run, run, run. We need a female on the council. And no doubt she would have won that election.
 But as things move on and we can see how things change, she was serving ably as our deputy, and now Jerry has retired after many, many years of service, and now Tiana is ascending into the position of city clerk. Well-deserved. Hats off to her. Everybody from Lovejoy is behind you, Tiana, and we hope you do a very good job. I won't say you have big shoes to fill because you're going to go off in your own direction, and you're going to do a fine job. So it's yes. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. For the record.
 Tiana Marks and yes she's a consummate professional I can't say she's an up-and-coming professional but she's super smart and she really cares about us and you know we would say you're filling Jerry's shoes you like council members said you're gonna go in your own direction and you have your own style and I really appreciate that and I thank you for all that you do for the council members and of course it's yes yes yes Tiana Marks. Council member for your left. Yes
 Councilmember, President Prokosoff-Scanlon. Thank you, Mr. President. For the last seven years that I've been on the council, I've had the pleasure to watch Tiana grow as from a staff member in the Mastin District Office to the deputy clerk and now hopefully after a couple more votes here, the city clerk. And it's been an absolute privilege to watch, to watch her professionalism.
 and the way she handles all matters that come before her and the way she cares about this city and the people in it so it's with great pleasure that I vote for the name Tiana Marks. Council Member Golomba
 Thank you. It's good to see my former colleague here, Damone Smith. Yes, yes. And I first met Tiana through Damone many, many years ago, and same thing what my colleagues have said. She's done a great job, has always been willing to help, and I'm very proud to cast a yes vote for Tiana Marks. Thank you, sir. Majority Leader Revere.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've had the good fortune of working with Tiana when she worked in former Majority Leader's office and since being elevated to Deputy Clerk. We have seen the level of professionalism in the Clerk's office, something that we as Council members are very proud, and there's no doubt in my mind that she will raise the level of professionalism in that office. So we look forward to working with her for the next four years.
 Council Member Franzen. Thank you. Mr. Fontana made the motion for Tiana Marks. I second that motion, because we have to have the motion seconded. And when I started here with Charlie Michaud, who did a phenomenal job, Jerry Falinski, who did an excellent job, and Tiana will very much follow in the footsteps of those two gentlemen. She's a lady.
 and she will be great. I know she'll serve this council very well, so I vote for Tiana Marks. Wow. Councilman Wingo had to go out of town unexpectedly. If he was here, he wanted it to be known that his vote would have been for Tiana Marks. I believe that is unanimous. Ladies and gentlemen, the newest clerk of the City of Buffalo, Thank you.
 and to swear her in all right okay to swear her in is another history maker and the youngest judge on the city court and I think she's rather cute because she's my daughter-in-law judge Bridget if you can please place your right hand on the Bible your left hand
 Can you please repeat after me? I, Tiana Mark, do solemnly swear to uphold the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of New York, and your son.
 you're fine. To faithfully discharge. To faithfully discharge. The duties of city clerk. The duties of city clerk. For the city of Buffalo. For the city of Buffalo. To the best of my ability. To the best of my ability. So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations. I've never seen her. Thank you everyone.
 And believe me, I swear people went in constantly. I don't know why I was nervous on my own. Councilmember said he could give me like 10 minutes to do a speech, and today I gratefully and humbly accept this position as the City Clerk of the City of Buffalo. I thank God for showing me and helping me to understand my purpose. It was hard for anyone to imagine stepping out on faith by taking a pay cut from being an early childhood teacher to becoming an intern.
 Thank you, Damone, for bringing me into city government and for Todd, for your assistance along the way. My hard work and dedication as a legislative staff and with the recommendations of many of my colleagues is how I was able to be appointed deputy city clerk in September of 2015.
 After taking on a role as Deputy City Clerk, Jerry Shilinski, the former City Clerk, took me right up under his wing and he never left my side. In our years of working together, Jerry taught me so much. Thank you, Chris, Laura, and Wendy, for your guidance and knowledge on the duties and responsibilities of the clerk's office. To Millie, to the clerk's office and records management, I promise not to let you guys down and give you my best self.
 Many people have said, and I even thought to myself, that it's big shoes to fill being a city clerk. But then God reminded me that when I became a deputy clerk, not only did my role and responsibilities increase, but at the end of 2016 and beginning of 2017, I had to maintain my strength, courage, and still maintain a clerk's office in the face of tragedies.
 The passing of three colleagues, one expected, two sudden, another losing everything in an unforeseen house fire, and two more colleagues dealing with their loved ones battling cancer. To top it off, I was leaving one of the employees' funeral when I received a phone call from my mother saying that the doctors had just diagnosed my sister with a brain tumor. Through all of this, God had to remind me that you're already wearing big.
 when you begin this journey. And if I brought you this far, I'll see you through being a Buffalo City Clerk. What I have learned in this process is that God will take you and prepare you for places and positions that you don't see yourself.
 Romans 8 and 29, we know that all things work together for the good, for those who love God, who are called according to his purpose. I believe today is a great day for the city of Buffalo, not only because history was made, but to see great leaders like the Common Council encourage the development of young and women leaders to continue to develop the right people with similar attributes like themselves. Thank you.
 To my bosses, if it wasn't for the council members working together, I wouldn't be before you speaking. Thank you, council president, who did not hesitate in appointing me to become the city clerk, along with always motivating me to follow my dream. He also asked, would you stress your client before he whispered to me? He always have a story to tell me to get me through. Also, how your bishop. That's funny about this.
 Thank you, Majority Leader Rivera and President Pro Tem Scanlon and council members for having faith in me and believing me to carry out the duties of the city clerk. Council Member Wyatt, thank you for giving me management techniques. Thank you, Council Member Franczak for your knowledge and your history. Thank you, Council Member Golombek for making me feel comfortable and making me laugh at times I feel nervous to calm my nerves during council and committee meetings. Thank you, Council Member Farrellado for always being a listening ear and being there to support
 thank you for always encouraged me to seek higher position mom and dad for raising me to be well-rounded and always supporting me and all my future endeavors and let me advocate for what I believe in feet thank you to my brother Kevin and my sister Jasmine for always having my back granny thank you for teaching me to how to be a supervisor at a young age my family my nephew Trey God family my godmother Jadonwak okay
 Special thanks to my best friends Brianna, Christina, Chanel, Natasha, and Tiandra in Tijuana, as well as many of my mentors that is present here or away on being critical on my career development, providing me advice and guidance. Special thanks to Judge Jahair Pridger who performed the swearing in ceremony today and also a great mentor and friend, something like a bigger sister to me.
 To the elected officials who are here and those that couldn't make it but have supported me along the way, Mayor Byron Brown and wife Michelle Brown, New York State Assembly Majority Leader Crystal Peoples-Stokes, and City Controller Barbara Miller-Williams. Also thanks to my good friend Commissioner Gigi and Kim Beatty, and I cannot forget my First Lady Monique Pridgen. To my community mothers, friends, and colleagues, Ms. Dee, Ms. Roger Ling, and the rest of the community of the City of Buffalo, thank you.
 the city clerk position is a great responsibility but it's also an amazing opportunity to demonstrate all i have learned and how capable i am i was not chosen because i'm not the because i'm the first woman or the youngest but i work hard for this and it is my time i will not disappoint you and i assure you that i will continue to work hard for the city of buffalo residents and all of us workers finally i repeat repeat my gratitude to all the people today
 Thank you, everyone.
 Before we move on with the meeting, I want to thank the council leadership, the President Pro Temp and the Majority Leader, who when we began these discussions, they both were unified. We were all unified in making sure that we presented to our colleagues a name of a person who we knew would work for all nine council members. Thank you. All right, you're all welcome to stay if you'd like. It's going to be a really exciting next 30 minutes.
 I believe that there are, are they up there now? There are refreshments on the 14th floor. So I'll give a second for people who want to exit. Thank you, and I was told our mayor was in the building, in the room, I'm sorry, and we did have our controller here. We acknowledge them both.
 All righty, from the top. Item number one, Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center six month program. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Fairlo. Item number two, appointment to Buffalo and Erie County Library Board of Trustees. Motion to approve items two and three. Second by Councilmember White. Item number four, appoint Commissioner of Public Works, Parks and Streets. Motion to go to civil service. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item number five, appoint Deputy Mayor. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombak.
 Item number six, appoint member of commission on citizen rights and community relations. Motion to send to civil service items six and seven. Second by council member Fontana. Item number eight, appoint special assistant to the mayor. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Scanlon.
 item number nine joe joseph tower loc pilot motion to send the cd items nine and ten second by council member for your letter item number 11 enter phone enter fund loan request motion to approve thank you my councilman fontana item number 13 request approval certificate of adjusted base proportions of 2019. motion to send the finance item 13 and 14. second by customer for your letter
 Item number 15, appoint deputy commissioner. Motion to receive and follow items 15 through 17. Through 18. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 19, changing contracts, South Ogden Street Bridge. Motion to approve items 19 through 21. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item number 22, permission to accept grant. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Freelander. Item number 23, permission to hire consultant. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 24, proposed agreement between City of Buffalo and Buffalo-Omset Parks Conservatives. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Fontana.
 Item number 25, public works vehicle purchases. Motion to approve. Second by Councilman Fontana. Item number 26, appoint legislative coordinator. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilman Freelander. Item number 27, transfer of city-owned property. Motion to approve. Second by Councilman Franza.
 Item number 28, appoint sole block attendant. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Leno. Item number 29, computer aided dispatch system. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Leno. Item number 30, appoint special assistant to the commissioner. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scandler. Item number 31, claims committee agenda. Motion to approve.
 Motion to send to the Claims Committee. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. Item number 32, full store license 440, a.k.a. 442 Amherst Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Lumbeck. Item number 33, full store license 1538 Broadway. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Farnsley. Item number 34, full store license 1930 Genesee. Motion to approve items 34 through 36. Seconded by Council Member Fontana.
 Item number 37, property manager license, wholesale. Motion to send legislation items 37 and 38. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 39, used car dealer, 540 Tonawanda. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 40, wholesale junk license, 409 Hurdle. Deferred. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golomba.
 Item number 41, appoint Assistant Director of Permits. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Feraletto. Item number 42, appoint Chief Building Inspector. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by President Protell. Item number 43, appoint Deputy Commissioner of Permits and Inspections. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item number 44, Argo Works Contract Extension. Motion to approve items 44 through 46. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 47, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 47 through 51. Second by council member Frioletto. Item number 52, appoint assistant legislative aide. Motion to adopt items 52 through 54. Second by council member Farnsworth. Item number 55, notices of appointment. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Frioletto. Item number 56, notices of appointment, temporary, provisional, permanent.
 motion to that let's send it to civil service motion to send civil service second by councilmember Wyatt item number 57 notice of appointment council enter motion to adopt
 second by councilman white item number 58 monthly city hall incident report motion to receive and file second by councilman franza item number 59 public health outreach concerns motion to send the cd second by councilmember columbia item number 60 special use 10 82 camorra for minor vehicle repair motion to send legislation to city planning board item 60 through 63. second by councilmember fairlady i don't know i
 Civil Service Committees. Item number one, appoint assistant filtration plant operator. Civil Service. Civil Service.
 motion to approve items number one and two you have detention afterward for talking during the meeting item number three notices of appointment receiving file thank you my cousin for your letter finance item number four approval request to purchase new police vehicle that's what happens when friends sit next to each other
 motion to approve the new purchase of the vehicle I'll remember why community development item number five report a cell 1587 Jefferson motion to approve items five and six second by the majority leader Revere legislation item number seven use car dealer 1082 Kim Moore motion to approve second by the majority leader Revere I don't number eight zone and map amendment 1012 Sycamore there
 There are no objections. Motion to approve with conditions items 8 and 9. Motion to approve with conditions that will be submitted for the record, second by Councilmember Revere. Item number 10, ADAPT reuse, 139, 145, 151, 157, 163 Buffalo River Road in two lot line. Item 10 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit 10 and also item number 11.
 We commit 10 and 11 councilman. Correct. All right. Second by council member. You're a little resolution. And I'm up. We still need 12 as well. Oh, 12. I'm sorry. Restaurant dance license. Richie so full. Also recommit second by council member. Why resolution 64 Buffalo Zoo Park project motion to adopt second by council member for your letter.
 Item number 65, Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 175, please. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Freelander. Item number 66, fee waiver, Big Timers, 100th year anniversary. Motion to approve items 66 and 67. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 68, appoint senior legislative assistant to. Motion to adopt items 68 and 69. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet.
 Item number 70, support grant funded for Upper Niagara Street Phase II. Motion to adopt item 70 and 71. Second by Council Member Golombe. Item number 72, fee waiver for Be Bold, Be Hurt Fashion and Showcase event. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number 73.
 proper notice for utility service shutoffs. Motion to adopt the resolves. The remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Franczak. This is important. I think that residents should be aware when city services are going to be cut off. I know that we, that, and now we're moving in a new direction. Public Works has been really good at this, but as of lately, water has been cut off and other things have been cut off.
 and the residents may receive a notice the night before. For some people, that is not enough, especially in the heat of the summer, especially when you have seniors or you have children in the house. Some people need water for their health, and they have to have constant running water. So I know that we are doing a lot of work in the City of Buffalo, which is a good thing, but we need to have policies.
 Some people even called our radio show last week and suggested that the same way the city is going to have no parking on one side, and we notify right on the poles.
 I want to see it on the poles, I want to see it on the houses, unless it's an emergency. We understand that when it's an emergency, it's an emergency, you've got to get it done. But when it is routine or we have enough notice, residents need to know. And our water was shut off recently, and my neighbor said, oh yeah, the night before, somebody came along and stuck a notice in the fence of his house. Not notice, it's not enough notice.
 It wasn't an emergency. There wasn't a pipe busted. So we've gotten these complaints before. We got them in the fruit belt all last year. We have to put something in place. So by approving this, we move this forward to then work with Public Works, Water Department, other departments to make sure we have a proper notification. Thank you for supporting it. Next item.
 Item number 74, set public hearing for long-share parcel. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilman Franza. Item number 75 could be withdrawn. Item number 76, ordinance amendment, chapter 96, bonds and contracts. Motion to approve. 76, second by President Pro Tem. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Councilmember Rivera is recommending. The ordinance amendment, chapter 96. Yes.
 Is that the one for the living wage? I'm sorry. I couldn't hear you, Councilmember. That is the item on living wage amendment that we're proposing to approve here today, and I just want to...
 I want to thank the Living Wage Commission. Members are here today for their studying the issue and making the recommendations of changes. We appreciate the work on behalf of the City of Buffalo workers. When the Living Wage was created, its purpose was to make sure that city workers can earn to sustain their families.
 This change will ensure that employees can support themselves and their families as expenses grows and bills grow as well. The law covers hundreds of city employees, workers, as well as 20 companies that do business with the City of Buffalo. These are all covered under this law. It will go into effect July 1st, 2020. That allows us to appropriate money in that particular budget.
 We want not only to ensure adequate wages are paid for the city workers to support themselves and their family, but we also recognize the work they do.
 Every day they deserve a good paying job for a good day's worth of work. I just want to thank them, and I want to thank my co-sponsor, Council Member Farrell-Letto, for co-sponsoring this. I want to thank the law department for working with us. I certainly want to thank all of the members that are here today, and certainly I want to recognize Council Member McAuliffe.
 who was one of the biggest supporters of the living wage in the time that I was here on the Common Council. So I just, in his memory, I certainly want to pass this amendment. Thank you, Council Member. Next item. Item number 77, Cline Hands Music Hall. I'm sorry. Council Member Fontana, I apologize. No, I'm sorry too. I was late. Do we know what the fiscal impact to the city for next year potentially could be for this?
 I don't have that answer. We don't have that. That is something that will have to be put in the budget next year. So that's why we gave ourselves one year to do that. That's good. Do you know what the type of increase per person it would be? Is there a reference? I see 150% of federal guideline, but do we know what the number potentially could go to? I couldn't tell you that.
 you can't no okay no trouble okay we'll have to look at it in budget then and go from there absolutely thank you sir thank you next item item number 77 client hands music hall consolidated funding application motion to adopt items 77 and 78 second by councilmember Franzen I don't number 79 fee waiver for eight days of hope motion to approve second by councilmember Wyatt item number 80 letter request an update on speed hump motion to send the CD second by councilmember Wyatt
 item number 81 the need for permanent speed humps motion to send the cd second by councilmember wyatt item number 82 ud cda application for new york state dc motion to adopt second by councilmember fontana item number 83 wave permit fees for minnesota ad block motion to approve second by councilmember wyatt any items need to be revisited
 All right. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, July 16, 2019 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance, file on civil service.
 Civil Service Tuesday July 16th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation Tuesday July 16th at 1 p.m. and Committee on Community Development Tuesday July 16th at 2 p.m. Special Committees Committee on Claims Wednesday July 17 2019 at 11 a.m. Councilmembers any announcements? All right hearing none. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Fontana.