I'm alive. Countdown. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombak. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Here. Council President Prichard. Here. Council President Prichard. Here. Council President Prichard. Here. Council President Prichard. Here. Council President Prichard. Here. Council President Prichard. Here.
 Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge. Thank you. Our Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. You're on mute, Doctor. Thank you, Council President. Today is special for me. Deb and I were able to be at Devo College for Nick Wallenda's walk a couple of weeks ago now, along with the Majority Leader, Rivera.
 And a couple of verses come to mind as I sort of thought about those that are joining us today. The first is one I think is so precious for Niagara Falls. Psalm 42, deep calls to deep in the roar of your waterfalls. All your waves and breakers have swept over me. By day, the Lord directs his love. At night, his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life.
 Just thought that was powerful as I think about Nick and what opened up to him in Niagara Falls in his walk there nine years ago now. And then for D'Youville College,
 The compassion that comes from your founder and is reflected by Jesus in Matthew 14. When Jesus heard what had happened, he withdrew by boat privately to a solitary place. Hearing of this, the crowds followed him on foot from the towns. When Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, he had compassion on them and healed their sick. Compassion on them and healed their sick.
 The new health professions hub at the Uville is meant to be, it says an education training community health center embedded in Buffalo's website, where students, medical professionals and community members can come together. And as I read about St. Marguerite to Uville, I saw the compassion that was represented in her life and
 all that she has still imprinted here in our precious city. And so I'm thankful for our guests that have joined us and let's bow together now in prayer. Father, thank you for the glory of the waterfalls that are in the backyard of Buffalo, New York. Lord, they represent such power and majesty and when the pandemic has done tourists by the millions.
 Thank you, Father, that they're a natural wonder of the world and we revel and are in awe at the size and spectacle of our God. Thanks that it was a place that framed Nick from the age of six on and continues to.
 Thank you for our friends from D'Youville and for the impact and imprint that this school has had for so long. And Father, now in compassion as they reach out to the West Side and train people to help extend and expand health care opportunities, we pray your blessing. Father, thank you that you have compassion over more than just those who are ill and sick, but the citizens of Buffalo that each of these council members represent.
 Lord, I pray even now that they as leaders will have the hands and arms, the feet of Christ and then compassion reach out to those in need in each of their districts. Bless now our city we ask and thank you for your powerful presence today in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner, Council Members Memorials. I know that and I'm looking up his name.
 mourn the passing of one of our commissioners sons, Otis Barker, his son's name was Jared, who passed suddenly on yesterday from natural causes. I was able to be with him to help him get through that moment. Otis is very active with our youth has been. Um,
 active with our youth even before being the commissioner. So it is with a very sad heart that we remember Jared at this time. Any others? Seeing no others, we always remember men and women who have given their life for the freedom of not only our country, but of other countries since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 Special presentation from our Majority Leader, Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Today we're joined by President of D'Youville College, Lori Klemel.
 Vice President of Operation Nate Martin, and Nick Wallenda, aerialist, daredevil, high wire artist, and author. In the second week of June, we celebrated the opening of their Professionals Health
 building on the city's west side. Students and health professionals from eight disciplines will come together to provide specialized medical services to individuals and families living in surrounding neighborhoods, underserved by our healthcare industry. That day, we had the good fortune of having to open the building, Nick Wallenda.
 He had the key in his possession, so we had to wait for him to cross the high wires to get to the other side to open the building so we can actually go in the building. He walked 330 feet, five stories above pavement, from the Montante building all the way up to the new building that they built. He brought a lot of excitement and energy to the city's west side and to the region.
 But most importantly, I think we celebrate the fact that the healthcare needs of many will be met as a result of what D'Youville College is doing along with Catholic Health. And I wanna give a special thanks to the leadership of the 15th president of D'Youville College, Laurie Clemmel. And let me just say that I wanna thank Reverend Al Warner because he was behind the scenes organizing this
 having Nick Wallenda here today. And we're so honored to have him. His faith, I believe, is what gives him the courage to stand up on those high wires. And I was nervous just watching him. I couldn't imagine with those bluebirds flying overhead, making all that noise, how he's able to concentrate and cross all the way to the other side without...
 Well, he did have, I believe, a harness, but he never had to use it. But he made it all the way to the other side. So it's a great feat. It's great for the city of Buffalo as it was for Niagara Falls years back. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to the president of the college, Lori Clemo, and then she can introduce Nick Bolent. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Councilman Rivera, and thank you all. It's such a privilege and honor to be with all of you today, and I think you did a wonderful job of describing what the day was for all of us. It was a dream come true for the college to open up our health professions hub. It is our mission in action. Our mission is to serve, and this really represents
 our ability to provide healthcare services, education, and training for the residents of the city of Buffalo and even beyond.
 And we could think of no better way to celebrate than to have Nick Walenda with us, who represented stepping out of our boundaries, moving into something different, but doing it with faith, which is, you know, central to our mission here at D'Youville as well, too. And to just be strong, courageous, and bold about what the next steps are.
 Our institution for more than 100 years has done this. We've responded to the needs of employers, but also and most importantly, to the needs of the residents of the West side of Buffalo. That's what this institution represents for us today.
 But I will say none of this could have happened without the support that we received from our councilman Rivera and the city of Buffalo. No other city would have come behind us in the way that the city of Buffalo has to be able to provide this great asset for the community. We're just at the beginning. We have plans for more growth and expansion on the west side here. So my message is we are humbled by this honor to be here with all of you today.
 and we are responsible and will continue to be responsible for helping our community that surrounds the college. And it is a privilege for us to do that. I will now turn it over to Nick Belinda, who can tell us a little bit about why he was here and his interest and what that day meant to him. So Nick, thank you for joining us and the council as well.
 Thank you, Lori, and thank you, Council. It is it's an honor to be here. Of course, from from a vast difference, I'm getting ready to face a tropical storm outside. I'm down in Florida. And so we have some interesting weather. So I'm glad that that I'm actually able to see me and I'm able to be on this this Zoom. But it was just an honor to be a part of that incredible event that was that was done at the Uville a couple of weeks ago. You know, my passion is people and I just love people.
 And anything that I can be a part of that is giving back to a community. And I have to say, Buffalo, Niagara Falls has been a huge part of my life from the
 from, as Dr. Warner said, from childhood, six years old. First time my parents were actually performing in Buffalo on a shine circus. And we went down to visit Niagara Falls. And when I looked across those falls at six years old, I remember thinking, wondering why my parents hadn't walked a wire across yet.
 And that's sort of when that dream of walking across Niagara Falls came to me. Of course, family history dates back a couple hundred years so the reality is, this is my life. In fact, my great grandfather Carl Willenda said it best when he said, life is on the wire and everything else is just waiting.
 So I believe that pertains to everybody in this world. We're all on a line. We're all trying to get safely to the other side. And that's where, as Councilman Rivera mentioned, my faith plays a huge key role in everything in life. It's not just my faith to get up on that wire, but it's my faith to get out of bed every morning too. And my goal in life is just to share the love of Christ to everybody that I come in contact with.
 and God has blessed me with an amazing platform, a platform that is often natural wonders around the world from Niagara Falls to the Grand Canyon to most recently an active volcano and of course more recent than that, D'Youville College. So I'm excited to be here. I'm also excited to say that my daughter, it looks like my daughter is gonna be attending D'Youville for college. She'll actually be coming there well soon for next semester.
 And so I'm excited about that. So you'll see me roaming the streets of Buffalo as I visit my daughter, I'm sure quite a bit over the next four years. But again, just an honor to be here. I don't wanna speak for too long, but thank you guys for this opportunity. Thank you, Majority Leader. Council President, I'm not going to read the whole proclamation. I'm just gonna read the last whereof and the therefore.
 Whereas Nick Belanda was honored with the first ever St. Marguerite Duvall College Faith in Action Award in recognition of his faith in God,
 that fuels his work and allows him to break boundaries, conquer fear, and share his gift with the world. Now, therefore, the City of Buffalo Common Council does hereby proclaim June 17th, 2021 as Health Professional Hub and Nick Wallende Day in the City of Buffalo, New York, to be commended
 this observation to all of the citizens. Thank you once again to Duval College, Nick Wallenda, Nate Martin, the Board of Trustees, the Board of Directors for the great work you're doing meeting the health care needs of our community. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Majority Leader. And you've mentioned his faith and getting on that wire. I have faith and I can't even go up on the first floor and look out the window, the second floor of my house and look out the window. So maybe he has much more tremendous faith. Thank you all for being with us. It is greatly appreciated. Thank you. All righty. Council Members, you have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Yes.
 Seeing none, we will hear the entire agenda. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 22, 2021 are approved. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? We can go from the top. All right. Paper here from the top.
 item number one certificate of appointment commissioner of management information services daryl springer motion to approve items one two three uh let's see there's a number three was not marked is that an approved uh council member that is and also can i speak on item number one please okay uh so we're going to approve items one two three four five six
 7, 8, and 8. Second by Councilmember Wyatt and Councilmember Nowakowski, you have the floor.
 Thank you very much. This is the appointment of Daryl Springer to be the commissioner of MIS. And I know that many appointments come to this body, but this one is a really good one and one that will do this city great pride. Daryl began his City of Nepal career 21 years ago as a city programmer, and he and his partner are
 a proud resident of the Niagara District. And this is something really cool because he's really a Buffalo boy through and through. He grew up in Buffalo Public Schools as a Hutch Tech grad and a Buffalo Bengal and graduated from Buffalo State in management information systems. And I'm very proud of this appointment and I'd like to make the motion to approve.
 It's been approved in second, but we'll receive your comments for the record. Thank you. All right. Next slide. Did you get roll call? Yes. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferreira? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon?
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number nine, annual audit plan, fiscal year 2022. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 10, change order, Dorothy J. Collier, C.C. Ruth, progressive. Motion to approve items 10 through 24. Okay.
 22. I think 22 22. Correct. Second by Council member Bowman. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Farrelletto. Yes. Council member Golombak. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 23 approval to purchase new police vehicles. Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Golombak. Item 24, permission to accept 2020 state homeland security funding. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Buhlmann. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes.
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 25, National Fuel Gas Distribution versus City of Buffalo. Motion to send to legislation items 25, 26, and 27. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough.
 Item 28, Fooster License 1032 West Ave. Motion to approve items 28 through 32. Can you scroll up through 34? Second by Council Member Freeland. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Glambach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Thank you.
 Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 35, Liquor Licenses. Motion to receive and file Items 35, 36, 37, 38, and 39. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 40, Notice of Appointment, Council Intern. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item 41, Speed Humps, Judgesboro. Motion to send to CD. Second by President Pro Temp's candidate. Item 42, Council Meeting Transcripts. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 43, White Supremacy and Police Departments. Motion to send to Police Oversight. Second by Council Member White.
 Item 44, request public input regarding Buffalo Public Schools use of American Rescue Plan funds. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item 45, letter to Council President regarding ARP. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 46, letter to Parking Commissioner Helper. Motion to send to Legislation. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 47, special use permit 716-M1.
 A motion to send to legislation of City Planning Board items 47 through 50. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Submissions list, Civil Service. Item number one, appoint Saber Streets Coordinator. Motion is to receive and file items 1, 2, 3, 4, and including 5. Second by Council Member White. Finance item 6, 2021 Annual Action Plan.
 Motion to approve items number 6 and 7. Second by Council Member Golombak. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item 8, Buffalo Sewer Authority Budget. Motion to receive and file numbers 8 and 9. Second by Councilmember Volman. Community Development, item number 10, report is sale 244 Maple. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item 11, acknowledgement from Office of Canadian Prime Minister. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And on that, we did get a response, but still no change. I think it's rather unfortunate that the only change that was given was for Canadian citizens to be able to go back and forth on the border.
 as long as they are vaccinated, as if American citizens should receive the Canadian citizens, which we are a loving people, especially city of good neighbors.
 But it should be both ways. And so I do want to thank our delegation in the federal government, who has really been trying hard to make that happen. But I also want to thank my colleagues for their support and even contacting Canada, the prime minister there to say,
 What about us? There are families that have been split apart. There are people there that own property and paying taxes there that need to and want to go to their houses. And so it is an important venture. So I just wanted to make sure that the public knew that the council has been paying attention and has reached out to ask that the border be open to American citizens at some level. Thank you, sir. Next time.
 Legislation item number 12 new tire handler 59 status loss. Items 12 and 13 are in the Fillmore district and were sent without recommendation. Mr. Chair you can make a motion to approve both of them with conditions that I have sent to the clerk. Okay Councilmember Scanlon is item 14 approved?
 We can approve item 14 with the condition of a one-year sunset. Okay, so motion to approve items 12, 13, 14 with conditions, 15 for approval, 16 and 17 are in Fillmore and South. 16? Both of those in the Fillmore district are approved with conditions. Okay, 16 approved with conditions, 17 in South.
 We can approve. Is also unapproved. 18 is going to be recommitted to approve through 17. Seconded by Councilmember Golombak. Councilmember Buhlmann. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombak. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes.
 Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 18, Special Use Permit 125, Crescent. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 51, Habitat for Humanity Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Glambach? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 52, Western New York Land Conservancy Grants for funding from Empire State Development and New York State. I apologize, this was a late file deferred to Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you, Majority Leader. This, I believe, is adopted to support a grant application from the Land Conservancy. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 53, Local Law.
 Section 13-21, right to know. Motion to send to legislation. Motion to send to legislation. We will discuss it in legislation, but a lot has been adjusted with great community input.
 And probably one of the main things is deals with the children or minors and ensuring that, you know, minors are protected, but also that they get the same information. So I do want to thank our community partners who have worked along with our great corporation council, Karen Gordon, to make this happen. So people may want to read now the adjusted or amended right to know. Thank you, sir. Next slide.
 Item 54, Buffalo United Front's Family Fishing Day Fee Waiver. Motion to approve items 54, 55, and 56. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Council Member Ballman. Yes. Council Member Fierletto. Yes. Council Member Golenbach. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pritchard. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item 57, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479, Adopt-A-Street Park Program. Motion to send legislation Item 57 and 58 and 59. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item 60, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Common Council. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 61, American Rescue Plan Community Input. This is a late file.
 All right, this is Lake Powell, Congressman White. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank my colleagues who have supported this. I think it's critically important to have public input with this one time opportunity for residents who have been impacted by COVID-19. I know we spent some expense has some expenditures already used in which the council is okay because it's something that's helping our young people.
 Absolutely, but I think for us to have a comprehensive plan to really impact the people who have been impacted by COVID-19, it's gotta be a collective effort. So we wanna support the administration as well as having the community speak on this particular issue. It just can't be...
 it was a decision made by one. It has to be a collective decision to really make the long lasting impact. So thank you to my colleagues who have supported this and our hopes that we can get the administration to work collaboratively to again, make this one time opportunity the greatest impact that we can. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, I totally agree. And I'll come right to you, Council Member Buengos. I think that what is so important and we have in this resolution, and thank you for allowing me to sign on with you,
 a public meeting so that we are able to hear from the public. And then also, I think it's important to hear from the individual council members the same way that we do any budget. You know, this is close to what we would spend in a year coming from the federal government.
 And so I know that in talking to several of the council members, there were different priorities that several council members even have. And I think it's important to have these discussions before we are presented with a plan. And then it looks as if we're pushing back on a plan that we may not have.
 I've insisted on having the input from our, from my colleagues and from the public. This is the biggest amount, at least in my time, besides being the billion dollars when I was on the school board, and I still disagree with the way that was handled.
 A billion dollars came to the school board and a few people in the room made a decision of who was going to get the contract. And I remember finding out sitting in a meeting with the superintendent. This is who we decided when I asked the question, well, what about what about the public? What about the rest of the school board members? I was told and I quote, that's what they elect me to do. And that's how it went down.
 I don't want to lead this council at this point with this amount of money coming and not lead in the right direction that would open up to hear from the public. So we will announce as soon as we get a date and talk to my colleagues about their availability.
 a public meeting that will occur. But the public right now, which we were informed today can go right to the city's website and they can, I believe there is a tab there for them. But we, the Common Council has a responsibility also to hear from the public. But they can go to the city's website. I'm not really sure. I was told, we were told this morning by the commissioner in caucus,
 or this afternoon that there is a website up right now. So I encourage citizens to participate in that, but also to participate in every level of government when we talk about the spending of these funds. So thank you for the resolution. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The resolution absolutely gives the Common Council an opportunity to have a hearing.
 But you just stated it, Mr. President, that there is already a survey on the city's website
 It is the Buffalo transformational survey. If you go to the city of Buffalo's website, you will see Buffalo transformation fund. Or if you don't see it, just type it into the search bar on the city's website, just type in Buffalo transformation fund or type in Buffalo transformation survey. And that will come up for you. That has been active since June 3rd.
 It's been active well over a month now. It's been active over a month where the community could give their input, give their ideas and such so that the administration can have multiple ideas to consider how to use these funds. I just want to make sure that that was very clear to the public. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate it. Not a problem.
 All right, so we will get out as much information as we can to try to get as much participation. I think what is important, though, because some of the suggestions don't fit, I think what is so important right now, it needs to be very public what the federal government is saying could be funded, because we're getting people who don't know and
 quite frankly, probably many of us don't know exactly what it is. So we've got to be able to whittle this down to an understanding level that we all can understand. And so that is what I would want to happen in these next couple of days so that when we do invite people to speak on this, they know what the money can be used for and what the money cannot be used for. Because I think that that's a part of the big gap, you know,
 because the city's website allows you to assume, you know, give your opinions, but people need to know what is it we can do and what is it that we can't.
 All right, Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to add my name to this resolution. I think a public meeting, hearing from the residents is a great idea. I've been seeing residents around the district and they're all excited about the opportunity that we have here. And I'm also excited and I have a lot of ideas. So I think the resolution's a great idea to have a public meeting and hear input. I don't think that's ever a bad idea. So thanks to the sponsor.
 all right councilmember milkovsky thank you mr president you can also add me too i do believe a community meeting is beneficial i represent a district that uh has a lot of many different languages and i know the survey is only in english so i know being inclusive to those that do not speak english as their first language would be beneficial and especially if we can include them in this process so thank you
 Yeah, I think that's very important. Thanks for that, Councilmember Nowakowski. And a part of the resolution that we worked on, if you look at the last part, it talks about basically not making any other moves until we have met and we have a process in place so that all council members are part of that conversation and are public. So any other comments?
 All right. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 62, request public works policy for lot painting. Motion is sent to CD. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, you know, I'm just...
 asking Public Works and I want to have further conversation with them on how they clean the lots. I've heard a lot of complaints about how the lots are not maintained in a timely fashion. I know I have a couple of lots in my district where I get the ire from some of the residents in that the lot is cleaned after it's two feet
 and there's a lot of paper and glass and it's just blight on top of blight so i want to ask the commissioner on how do we address this issue because for us to go and clean a lot and has three feet four feet of grass with paper in that and it's cleaned and it's not really cleaned it's just
 blight on top of blight, we have to develop a process. One of my neighborhoods on Weston Avenue in particular, where there's a service lot, every year we know we have to clean that lot. And the residents every year send an angry letter to me because they're frustrated that someone would clean a lot
 with three feet high grass and cut it and leave the paper and the glass and the litter just making as bad as the three feet of grass. So we really need to have a process in place if we need to send out an RFP,
 or whatever, because we'd have many lots in the city and none of them should be addressed in that way because you might as well leave the blight. If you're gonna leave it, if you're gonna leave paper and cut it with paper and grass and all those things within the lot, you might as well just leave it. And that's not a, that's not,
 respectful to the residents who live in those areas who work very hard to try to maintain their communities and a plea of eyesores eyesore and we should be doing a better job in that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. You know, my problem and I'll come right to you, Council Member Blumbeck. It's the littering that we got to clean up in the first place from people throwing crap out. So I encourage our citizens to
 If you see it reported and you are eligible, what is it, $1,500, because the city is cleaning up stuff that other people are throwing out there. And that's a shame of what we see in our communities. It wouldn't be tolerated anyplace else. Council Member Glumbeck.
 Thank you Mr. President. I want to commend my colleague for this and I agree with him wholeheartedly. I'm fortunate in many regards. We just approved, I think it was item number four, to allow a property that was a vacant lot owned by the City of Buffalo to be purchased by a next-door neighbor. I'm fortunate that I don't have a great number of vacant lots. I don't have the same problems
 that some parts of the city of Buffalo do. That being said, I do have a handful that are very frustrating. And it seems like we get cut last because they're out in the neighborhoods. And I understand where there's a hundred lots in a short area, they come into Riverside or Black Rock and there's a half a dozen. Interestingly enough, and when I put this together, I will share it with my colleagues.
 working with some of my block clubs and my community groups and with Commissioner Finn, we're putting together a demonstration project of using clover, planting clover on one of my lots in Riverside. And it's gonna be basically driven by the community. It's gonna be volunteers.
 with myself and a group of residents of Black Rock in Riverside. And it's the equivalent of about two or three city lots. And we're hoping that with the planting of clover, that it doesn't grow higher than about three inches. It doesn't need to be cut as much.
 They are doing this in other cities. And this was something that people like Anne McCooey and Alyssa Hamilton brought to me and said, hey, this would be a great idea to do in North.
 And, you know, this was the, you know, cooperation between residents and, you know, the council office, City Hall, and making this a possibility this year. So I'm hoping that this would be something that would work. And so instead of worrying about cutting the grass all the time, our main concern is going to be the litter.
 And as the council president said, with the rewards and other things out there, hopefully we can cut into that as soon as possible because I'm sure all of our districts are doing the same thing. We have residents that are volunteering their time. As a matter of fact, this Saturday, we're going to have a Black Rock Riverside cleanup in the neighborhood. So, but I commend you and I will get this in front of us as soon as we have it written down.
 Thank you. We all we all sit here trying to figure out how to get clover now right away. So we'll look forward to that because that is very, very important. And you just mentioned something in case any of our block clubs are listening. You know, we the Ellicott office stands by even through one of our community groups financially. If you would help us in those neighborhoods, we can help you to help yourself. Anything else on that item? No.
 Anything else before the council? That's the last item on the agenda. Council President? Yes, sir. Yeah, if we could revisit item, I believe it's 23, the purchase of police vehicles. All right. Motion to revisit item 23, seconded by Council Member White. That's before us.
 Thank you, Council President. I was just wondering that if my colleagues would have a problem approving this today. This money has been previously set aside. We knew it was coming for these vehicles. I know we've all heard over the course of the past couple of years that the police department is really lacking adequate vehicles. So I hate to hold it up even the two weeks if we could approve it today. Just wondering if I could see what the rest of my colleagues were thinking, if they'd be willing to approve it today.
 I'm not sure who wanted it to go, so I'll ask. There's an amount on here of approximately 1,500,000 or 24 marked vehicles in a cargo. Was there anyone who wanted that? Yeah, and that number was previously set aside in our budget. We approved it in our budget, so it's not something that's new to us. So if we could move on that, I'd love to because, again, even the two-week holdup, I'd love to get these vehicles in the hands of the officers as soon as possible.
 Was there an individual who wanted to come to the board? So is that being leased or what? I'm not sure. I mean, I know it was approved, but I don't, we don't know the details behind the approval because there was something stated that they wanted to lease vehicles as opposed to buying vehicles. So
 So I really want to hear some of the details behind what they're doing and how they're going about doing it. I absolutely agree. We want to get these vehicles in the hands of our officers because I know that they're the inventory is, you know, challenged right now. But I really want to hear more details behind that. And if someone would have came to us and talked to us beforehand, I certainly would have been amenable with approving it right away.
 but then um councilmember the the item uh speaks to the purchase of the vehicles so it's not this isn't the least one on this one right but in the past we've talked about leasing vehicles so i wanted to have some conversation about that i didn't think it was that urgent but you know if someone could have got to us earlier i would have been okay with approving it right off the bat so can i just make a recommendation the only reason i the i know
 A car responded the other day in my neighborhood in a rental. So I'm okay if you're okay if we could file an item and ask for an update on the leasing program. Would you be okay with that.
 yes sir okay so what we'll do uh councilmember wyatt will file a separate item for to get an update for the overall program you know are we leasing are they still talking about leasing um if in your request council member you can ask about the electric vehicles you know and moving i think we need a full comprehensive uh report if that's cool with you
 All right, so majority leader, if there's no objection, we'll rescind the previous motion to center committee and motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Council Member Glombach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. All right. Announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, July 13th at 945 a.m.
 Committee on Finance following civil service at 10am. Committee on Legislation Tuesday, July 13 at one o'clock p.m. Committee on Community Development Tuesday, July 13 at two o'clock p.m. Special Committees. Committee on Police Oversight Wednesday, July 14 at 11 o'clock a.m.
 All right, and just a reminder that our July 20th meeting will be our first time live here in the chambers. The chambers has been prepared at least for the council members with social distancing. If the public comes, if there is some in the public they are will
 Welcome, but we will still continue to observe social distancing and we'll have more on the policy of the mass as we get closer to that date, but it's July 20 of our regular meeting and then our last committee meeting as we work out any kinks.
 will be held virtually and our expectation is after the August break we will be back into the chambers for our meetings council members any announcements for your districts council member wyatt
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to invite the residents of the University District to our first in-person meeting. It will be taking place this Saturday at Gerrard Place from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. There's a lot on the agenda, so we want to make sure that you register, so please call immediately.
 my office at 716-851-5165 to register. We will still be exercising social distancing. If you have been vaccinated, we ask that you come. If you have not, you have to wear a mask, but we still will be exercising social distancing. It'll be a continental breakfast and not the usual hot breakfast to, again, continue to exercise the social distancing and other
 matters and how we conduct ourselves during this pandemic. So we're looking forward to a great meeting. And again, thank you to the public because you requested this meeting. I wanted to wait, but you asked for it and we're gonna do it because I think it's really important for us to re-engage and get back on track to addressing the concerns of the community. So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, anyone else?
 All right, seeing none, council member. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn, second by council member Bowman.