Yeah, thank you. Yeah, I'm fine. Yeah. Hey Joe, how you doing? Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombac. Here. Majority Leader Hawkson-Polk. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Council Member Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I would ask that you please remain standing for today's invocation, which will be given by our guest, Reverend Dr. Todd Leach of Westminster Presbyterian. Thank you for being here. It is my pleasure being with you today. Thank you all for the opportunity, and more importantly, thank you for doing what you do. I invite you to pray with me. God of heaven and earth. In your word, you have given us a vision of that holy city where both peace and justice prevail. A vision where people gather, where in their differences, they commit themselves to one another through their commitment to you. We pray, Lord, for you to renew such a vision for the residents and leaders in this city of good neighbors, that together we journey towards such a vision. Bless our leaders who have proven their steadfast commitment to our community. Lead them in their conversation. Guide each and all of us toward eliminating poverty, prejudice, and oppression, both personal and systemic. That in our city peace may prevail with righteousness and justice with order. And that neighbors from various cultures and with differing talents may find with one another the fulfillment of their humanity. Through your grace and in your name we pray, amen. Thank you Reverend Dr. Leach, appreciate you being here today. Council members and memoriams, Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. Lovejoy District, we lost Paul Marshall, who was a member of the Seneca-Babcock community. He was a Vietnam veteran and an active member of our community, a great neighbor to all. We also lost Michael Collette. He was a longtime resident in the Lovejoy neighborhood on Davie Street, and his mother was very active in the community, great sense of humor, great person, and I know the family is... I'm sorely missing him, so thank you. In addition to that, I ask that we please keep in our thoughts any members of the armed forces or first responder community who may have lost their lives since our last meeting, and in particular this meeting. Officer Jamison Ritter of the Cleveland Police Department and Newark firefighters Augie Akebow and Wayne Brooks Jr who lost their lives in service of their communities. For that I would ask that we please take a moment of silence. We do have one presentation before we get underway with today's meeting, and that will come from Majority Leader Halton Pope. They do fireworks for three days. Thank you, Council President, for letting me interrupt these proceedings briefly. This is National Minority Mental Health Month, and it is my honor and privilege to acknowledge somebody that I've known pretty much all of her life, which makes me feel very, very old. Ms. Diamond Barnwell, if you wouldn't mind coming down. Diamond is the director of the Best Self Behavioral Black Mental Health Response Team. And in recognition of your exceptional service and commitment to expanding mental health services to Buffalo's East Side, and your leadership and advocacy, especially in the wake of May 14th, the Tops Massacre. You've been very instrumental in highlighting the ongoing need for accessible mental health services, especially to people of color. So I want to thank you for everything that you've done for us as a community, as a whole, for you using your gifts, your talents, and for thriving and for being an example of young for young people to follow their dreams and walk through them. I'm very proud of you. I don't understand. I love this girl so much. I'm just so excited for her. And so ladies and gentlemen, it's without further ado, I want to just acknowledge Ms. Diamond Burnwell. Thank you. Hello, everybody. One, first, thanking God, because without him, I would not be able to do the work that I do. But also, thank you to Majority Leader Hilton Pope, as well as many of the other council members who are here today. I actually started working here right before I was told that I had to step into my career choice. But being in this realm and this work helped me to learn the engagement skills that I needed in order to be the therapist that I am today to help my community. So thank you. On a motion by Majority Leader Halton Pope, second by President Pro Temp-Bowman, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 25th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had the chance to review the late files. Madam Clerk, from the top, please. Item number one, amendment to 2023-2024 annual action plan. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, citizen services monthly report for June 2024. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number three, pilot agreement for 875 Lafayette. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by Council Member Gulenbach. Item number four, pilot agreement for Plater Gardens LLC. Motion to approve items four through and including seven. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number eight, appoint deputy commissioner. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number nine, notification of serial to repeal no parking on Upper Tarrant Street. Motion to receive and file items nine through and including 12. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 13, amendment change order 13, engine 25. Motion to approve items 13 through and including 24. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. permits and inspections item number 25 sidewalk cafe license 1543 aka 1545 hurdle avenue motion to send a legislation seconded by council member farrell item number 26 sidewalk cafe license 515 aka 517 maine motion to approve items 26 through and including 34. Seconded by President Pro Tempoman. Item number 35, FCS Administrator's Contract Extension number two. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 36, Valerie Crispo, COA for Director of Comp and Benefits. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 37, Board of Ethics Minutes. Motion to receive and file items 37 through 39. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 40, co-mingling application for West Chippewa Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 41, liquor license notice with 474 Abbott. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 42, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 43, notices of appointment, temp, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Tempollman. Item number 44, notices of appointment, seasonal and hourly. Motion to receive and file items 44 and 45. Seconded by Councilmember Gombach. Item number 46, Seeker Negative Declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 47, letter to Water Board requesting to attend committee meeting. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Petitions, item number 48, special use, 2003 Broadway. Motion to send items 48 through 50 to legislation in the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Civil service, item number one, notices of appointment. Motion to approve items one and two. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number three, appoint senior public safety dispatcher. Motion to receive and file items three through nine. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Finance, item number ten, reported bids, mail and overlay pavement repairs. Motion is to table items ten and eleven. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Recommit. What was the motion I'm saying? Table. I'll recommit. Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit, seconded by Council Member Glumber. Community development, item number 12, request for Buffalo Place Board to support office to residential conversions. Motion to receive and file item number 12. Seconded by Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Item number 13, conditions at Cleve Hill Plaza. Motion is to send to the Police Oversight Committee. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Legislation item number 14, food store license 3385 Bailey Avenue. Motion to approve with conditions items 14 through 17. Seconded by Councilwoman Overhart. Item number 18, used car dealer license 2104 South Park. Motion to recommit 18 and 19. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 20, restaurant dance license 875 Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 21, direct law department to draft an ordinance amendment adding New York State property maintenance. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach. Item number 22, resolution requested amendment to the city of Buffalo charter for budget submission. Motion to adopt 22 and 23. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Councilmember Golombic has the floor. Mr. President, I'd just like to be recorded in the negative on item number 22. Okay, for the record, Councilmember Golombic is recorded in the negative on item number 22. Item number 24, special use 327, Patariski. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 25, special use 61 Manchester Place. Motion to deny 25 and 26. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski and Councilmember Rivera has the floor. Chairman, the reason for the denial was forwarded to the clerk's office. So they're registered with the clerk's office. Thank you. Motion stands. Item number 27, requesting City of Buffalo Law Department to update on collection of unpaid housing code. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Goldenberg. Item number 28, used car dealer license 186 Warwick. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 29, special use 1221 Lovejoy. Motion to approve with conditions 29 and 30. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Goldenberg has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 30 is in the North District. I'd like to have a sunset clause included on that so that we could come back in one year and take a look at it to make sure that they lived up to the agreements that are going to be placed on them with the conditions. Okay, for the record, item number 30 will have a one year sunset clause attached to it at 293 Amherst. Item number 31, ordinance amendment chapter 137, schedule of fines and penalties. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 32, ordinance amendment chapter class AEE, chapter 137-7. Motion to approve. Second by council member Rivera. Resolutions, item number 51, fee waiver for the city of Buffalo, Bandstand. Motion to approve items 51 and 52. Second by councilwoman Everhart. Item number 53, establishing the office of gun violence prevention in the city of Buffalo. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to legislation. Second by councilwoman Everhart, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. For the record, I just want to say again how important this office is. Many of you know in this room what happened to our city two years ago. What happened in our city last weekend, quite frankly. And these shootings are out of control. This city, in my opinion, is out of control when we lose a three year old and a 14 year old within the span of weeks of each other. And establishing this office of gun violence and prevention is about streamlining the process of prevention. It is about bringing together all of the different organizations who work in these spaces. And making sure that they not only have the resources that they need, but that they are properly trained. to be out in the community, that families know that there are resources for them. Because when a shooting happens, it is not just about taking a gun off of the street or putting a criminal in jail. It is also about the families that are left behind, the community that is traumatized. And what is our response to that? There is no response to that. And so we have to create it. The White House has taken the lead on this because of what happened on 514. The White House created the Office of Gun Violence and Prevention there. And we, Buffalo, have not stood up to that. And it happened in our street. And so we have to do this. We have to make sure that we are staying lockstep with what the White House is doing. They are at the table, they understand what happened in Buffalo, they are willing to help us. They are willing to make sure that we have those resources, but there is not one entity, one office in this city that is equipped to handle this. And so we have to create it. And so thank you. Council Member Glenn Beck. Thank you, Mr. President. While I'm supportive of the goals of this resolution, I'm supportive of getting guns off the street. I'm supportive of doing all in our power to get rid of the violence on our streets. I do have some concerns with creating I suppose a department that is an added level of bureaucracy to try to address this. I made phone calls since yesterday and did some research with the administration and was basically told that we are accessing the money from Washington and from the federal government. that was made available over the past several years. That while we might not have a specific office like this, we have different departments between the police department, citizen services, and others that are accessing dollars for the city of Buffalo. I have some concerns about creating I think it would be two new positions, a director and a clerical position. Especially right now in a time when if we are looking very closely There is a fear of a control board because of the fiscal instability that we have right now in the city of Buffalo. I don't understand why this wouldn't have been discussed during the budget process in May. That might have been a time, I would have voted no then as well for the simple fact that I don't think that we have the monies right now to be able to fill these positions. Those are some of my major concerns that we have with this. I think there's some long-term concerns as well, and one of them is, you know, the elephant in the room. If this department becomes an added bureaucracy here in Buffalo City Hall. And depending on what happens in the presidential election this year, if the Republicans take over the White House, what happens to all these programs? I would bet you that these programs are going to disappear, and that's not to the advantage of the city of Buffalo. But then we would have a department that is expecting to get money from the federal government. that no longer has programs that are being directed towards these specific goals. As I mentioned already when I spoke to people in the administration, I've been assured that we are already accessing hundreds of thousands of dollars that are coming into the city of Buffalo. I was led to believe, unless I misunderstood them, that this department would not necessarily bring additional dollars into the city of Buffalo. It would just simply bring in dollars that are already being brought in by other departments. And once again, the main concern that I have is that we do not have the financial wherewithal to create this new department. We were very, very concerned this past budget session when we had a 9% tax increase that we cut down to 4.1% on this council. Yesterday when I was asking for where the money was going to come from and unfortunately the administration finance person had left, I didn't realize that they had gone by the time we got to the resolutions. I'm not sure where we're going to find this money from. We're already looking at a multi-million dollar deficit right now in our budget. We know that we have holes that we have to fill, and my position has been since May that unless there is a position that is definitely bringing in dollars, new dollars, new revenues that I would not be supportive of it. So it's nothing wrong with the ultimate goals of this resolution. I think that they're all commendable and I support every single one of them. Because every night when there's a shooting in the city of Buffalo and I see it on the news or if it's in my district or if it's in an area near where friends of mine live, like all of us, I get those phone calls. And it's heartbreaking whether it's a little child or an adult or anyone in between. But I would much rather see the $200,000 or $250,000 that would go towards the salary of these people to be put onto the streets. And just to give you an example, in the North District alone, some of the things that I support that I think have been beneficial and not perfect because there is no perfect solution to this until we fix family life. But I have sponsored for years now, Willie Hutch Jones coming in and doing basketball, soccer, and volleyball. Don Patterson, who was here a few weeks ago with the boxing program. Peacemakers, when I've had problems at McKinley High School and Riverside High School, we've all funded them through this council. The Northwest Buffalo Community Center, the Boys and Girls Clubs of the North Towns. Little League Football, Little League Baseball, and Riverside Park. And the list goes on and on and on. And these are just my district. I would much rather see money coming into our districts so that we can spend money to get kids off of the street. And once again, we're not going to get every single kid off of the street, but the more programs that we have available and the more professionals that we have to run these programs. I think the better it will be. So I am in the negative on this, and not because I oppose the goals of the project, but I just don't see where we're going to get the dollars for this, especially in a time when we have a financial crisis. So please record me in the negative. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President, and certainly I've have it brought up as many members have is that this is why it's so critical for our fiscal health. Because when we are not fiscally strong, we are not able to respond in the manner that our constituents and our residents deserve. I mean, the array of shootings that are happening, there's nothing short of a public emergency in the city of Buffalo. With just recently six shootings that senselessly happened. on Sunday, in this past weekend. And I certainly understand and have been a large proponent of tightening belts and to make sure that we're fiscally sustainable and to be able to feel pain. But guess what, when we're dealing with shootings that are taking lives with shell casings all over the place, we have to be able to respond in a way that is not archaic, but that is new, that evolves. There's a social component to shootings and we need to be able to respond in a manner that is forward thinking and new. And that's really something that I'm grateful to have new members on the council because you have new things that you're passionate about. You have new things to think about. And quite frankly, in City Hall and sometimes in the world we live in, we choose to live almost archaically and it's okay to think about things that are differently and I think that when it comes to public safety and getting guns off the street we need to deal with this from a multitude of ways and I want to stress again that this is the reason why local municipalities are the boots on the ground. When something happens in the city, they call city hall, they call their council members. We don't have the luxury to go into session six months or every so often and then come back. When something happens, the city of Buffalo is a local municipality that responds. Our officers are responding. Our teachers, our firefighters, our community service organizations are responding. And we need to come up with a new approach. to be able to tackle this extremely difficult social problem we have. And I commend my colleague, Councilwoman Everhart, and if it's okay with her, I'd like to join her as a sponsor on this. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to go into too much in depth on The issues surrounding why the councilwoman is advocating for the creation of this office. I think we all know about the horrific things that have been taking place in the streets and the shootings that have taken place and the lost lives in particular, I mean recently just continual and how out of control it is. So I do support the councilwoman's efforts to create this office. I've had several, many conversations with the sponsor about the potential of this office dating back to budget time. It was brought up during the budget. There were some conversations with leadership about an allocation and to the sponsor's credit, understood the fiscal constraints we were dealing with in May. But we talked about the possibility of creating this office one other way. And in my conversations with the administration and with the sponsor, I believe they've identified a couple of positions there who are doing some of this work. But use these people and their titles to create this office and then amplify the office and give them additional responsibility to go out and coordinate with the violence interruption groups and other community organization groups that are doing this type of stuff out in the streets. I think that the office could create a situation where increased coordination and transparency between this building and those groups out there, as well as getting information back from them. And moving forward so we can be more successful. So to that end again, we've had those conversations about the financial impact. I think that it could be budget neutral at this point. And hopefully, quite frankly, eventually it starts bringing more money into the building where we can do even more through various grants. So I'm in support. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Council President. I think it's a wise decision. Yes, we're going to invest money up front, but at the back end, if this program is successful and we're able to get guns off the street, prevent violence, then we don't have to have people guarding the prisoners. We don't have to have police officers investigating more homicides, more gun shootings in the city of Buffalo. So yes, it is an investment up front, but at the back end, I'm hopeful that through the collaboration of this office that we will be able to curtail the continual violence that we've seen in our city and at the same time save the taxpayers dollars. Let me say this should be a priority. I mean, our budget is a document of priorities. So this should be a priority, just like many of the other things are priorities. This should be a priority in terms of getting guns off the street and not seeing the kind of incidents that we're seeing on the news where a three year old or a 14 year old is killed because of gun violence. So I would also like to be included as a sponsor, thank you. Council Member White, thank you. I had the pleasure, I guess, to meet, talk to someone who lost a child 14 years ago, Ronald Owens. He was my godson, never found out what happened to him. The mom cries and I cry with her because it's sad. And I know we have some fiscal challenges going for absolutely. And we have to look at that. Absolutely, we have to look at it. But at the end of the day, we have to do something. And for a long time, we did nothing. We had violence interrupters, hey, you guys go out there. But this office has an opportunity to do something. So I'm okay with finding the dollars to spend to do something and not just sit on the sideline, worried, crying. We had a three-year-old die and we just get together and we come to Kumbaya. But it's a three-year-old family who have to go on and live the rest of their lives without that three-year-old, who just was a, I mean, that smiling face. So when are we going to do something? When are we going to step up? When are we going to stop the rhetoric and do something about it? This is doing something about it. So I applaud the councilwoman and her efforts. I understand that we are in a budget crunch, but there are some things that we have to sacrifice to do this work. There's a lot of stuff that we waste in the city. There's a whole lot of money that we simply waste. But how about spending money and investing and saving a life? And so I'm good with that. I'm good with us researching and doing the work and the resolution that we put forth to be able to examine the budget more thoroughly. We can find those dollars to put in place to save a life. So I'm good with this all day. I think we need to be doing more things such as this, because some of the stuff we do is superficial, that means nothing. But this, I'm hopeful, will make a difference. And if Washington is looking at doing something and we can tie into that, let's do it. And I think we want to give people hope that we're just not sitting here pontificating every day and why people are dying. So again, I applaud my colleague and hope to be added to the resolution. Thank you. Okay. Joe DeVito, Houghton Point. Thank you so much Mr. President. I also would like to commend my colleague for putting this resolution forward. And I will echo that this conversation did come up in the budget and she fought for it vehemently and rightfully so. I don't think any parent, and I think we all agree, should ever have to bury their child. And likewise, I don't think any child should be raised without their parent. And so if there's a way to prevent this by creating an office like my other colleagues have said this is common sense And so I believe that there is a way to keep this budget neutral I think we can work through it this year and the next year in the budget process We'll figure out how to fund it going forward And so I commend you council member ever heart for your hard work and advocacy on this issue I shared with at your press conference yesterday, my cousin, my first cousin, had just, he was young, young father, husband, and they had a car issue, and so he was on his way to do his last position, last job in the hospital as an anesthesiologist before he was switching careers. And on his way to work, taking public transportation, his life was taken. They never found out who did it, But my second cousins were raised without their dad, a very loving man who I care about deeply. This is in 2014 and there's not one day that goes by that we do not mourn his loss. That my aunt and uncle don't consider what happened to them. How many countless people go through this every single day, it's not acceptable. And so thank you for doing this and I fully support it as well, thanks. Okay, motion stands. Item number 54, waiver of special event fees for care risk tying ceremony. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Aye. Municipal permission to apply for funding for Buffalo Cooling Hubs. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 56, waive fees for eight days of hope. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 57, support of Buffalo Place 2024 New York Main Street. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Gullinbeck. Item number 58, advocating for the law department and city court to apply receivership. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to legislation. Seconded by President Pro Tem Pullman and Councilmember Nowakowski is the floor. Thank you Mr. President, and I have been pretty well known on this council for talking about structures, housing, and dilapidated structures that are left vacant and abandoned and blighted by out of town slumlords. And the fact of the matter is, is what we're doing right now is not working. What we're doing now in conjunction with housing court allows housing code violators to come into a courtroom, to placate everybody in town, and then get an adjournment for a year later while in real time structures are dilapidated. They're falling and people are being exploited while renting structures that are not safe. And I've had enough of it. We have to, this is the part of. what I've really been feeling, this general sense of malaise I've been feeling, is if something's not working, then we have to find it within us to do something different. It's okay to change. It's okay to evolve. And it's okay to have opinions on certain things. And to me, nothing ventured is nothing gained. And we need to start thinking about how we can utilize receivership to start getting these structures that are exploiting the poor. They're keeping neighborhoods behind. anywhere from housing fires to roofs collapsing to water not happening to lead based paint. And we just go into housing court, we write it up, and then you get an adjournment and you hope that this landlord doesn't hide behind an LLC or a lawyer while everybody else is suffering in the neighborhood because of these structures. We have to do something different. And I'm sick of being told no in City Hall. So I'm happy that we're going to adopt this. I want to move this to legislation. I'm going to be bringing in community partners. I need the law department here to talk about this and to come up with solutions of what we can do because it's not acceptable. Because as property owners, as a property owner, I do have property rights, but I also have responsibilities too. And we need to start talking like this in the city of Buffalo because we allow these structures to fall on everybody's head. And then they say, well, what's the city doing? What are we doing? What's the plan? We need to come up with something doing something different and receivership is one tool in the toolbox. But we need to start coming up with how we can eradicate slumlords in the city of Buffalo who exploit all of our residents to allow them to live in substandard housing. And then wonder why we have demolitions and 10,000 vacant lots in the city of Buffalo. So I look forward to having this discussion. I'll be bringing in. Community partners housing advocates. I'm in any corporation council here And we're gonna need to have a conversation about what other tools the city can deploy Either in the field and departments of permits and inspections or in housing court to start remediating these cases In the city of Buffalo Thank You mr. President councilmember Rivera, mr. Chairman. I think there's something seriously wrong with both housing court and our permits and inspections department as well. I can't just blame city court. I spent a lot of time in the district. Yesterday, for example, I went down just one street and cases that were before the housing court were, people were fined and None of the repairs were made to the properties. They still languish in the condition they're in, although the owners have been fined. The properties are still in the same condition. And I'm sure if you go through all parts of the city, in different neighborhoods, jungles in the backyards, abandoned cars, you'll see vacant lots with tires. You'll see houses that you're scared to walk on the porch because you feel that they're going to fall on your head. And I've called the inspections department, so I think the solution is more comprehensive than just legislation. I think that we need to look both inside, internally, in our permits and inspections department, together with housing court, why these cases languishes. Because they blame us as council members. I mean, I'm there speaking on behalf of my office what we've done. We've written it up for court back in 2010 and it's still in housing court, no improvements. And they blame the council. I'm not the permits and inspections department. Then I show up to housing court to argue the case on behalf of the residents. And the residents are frustrated, and I go before the judge and I ask to keep the owners on a short leash, and he adjourns it for three, four months. In the meantime, nothing happens within those three, four months. It's winter time, and you can't make any improvements to the property because it's cold outside and you can't do improvements during the winter. That is the problem. They're gaming the system that we have. And we have to look internally. We hire more inspectors than ever before. We added more inspector this time for the pro-rental inspections. I think we should hold our departments accountable. I want an inspections department that is aggressive going after, and I want people to get fined. If you're talking about additional revenues, Just go out and find people. You don't even have to get out of your car. You can just pull up to the house and you can see the violations right from your driver's side window without even going into the property. So we want our permits and inspections department to be more aggressive. I've asked some of the inspectors to be aggressive. Some people say, well, you're coming down on people. I say, well, if we don't do our job, then the houses are going to come down on the people. Because the demolition by neglect, and that's what's happening in different neighborhoods of the city of Buffalo. Demolition by neglect, we should be holding people accountable. We want the courts to be accountable. We also want our permits and inspections department to be accountable as well. I'm not saying that we're failing in every aspect of permits and inspections. But we are seeing repetitive cases and we're asking and pleading with inspectors to write things up for court. We'll issue another letter of violation. Well, letter of violation, all he does is says you have 30 days to make the improvement and then after that you give another 30 days and then after that it's cold outside and they can't make the repairs. So we need to work internally as well and I'd like to see a more comprehensive way of dealing with both. with housing court and internally with permits and inspections thank you item number 59 budget and personnel amendment motion to approve second by council member wyatt item number 60 ordinance amendment chapter 479 motion to send to legislation second by council member ferraletto item number 61 hill and by the water fee waiver motion to approve items 61 through 63. Seconded by Council Member Gullenbeck. Item number 64, a municipal resolution authorizing application for New York State Climate Smart Communities grant. Motion to adopt item 64 through 66. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 67, waive permit fees for Minnesota F. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 68, Local Law, Intro Number 2, Article 20-3, Mayor's Budget. Motion to send item 68 through 71 to legislation. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, July 16, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, July 16, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, July 16, 2024 at 1 PM. And committee on community development will be Tuesday, July 16, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members, any announcements for your district? Majority Leader, Houghton Pope. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to remind residents that the Department of Assessment and Taxation is organizing public meetings regarding the city reassessment. I would like to clarify that this is not a city council event, but rather, though you see our faces on items, this is the Department assessment and taxation and they're organizing it it will be on Thursday July 18th at the downtown Public Library at 5 30 p.m. please I look at district show up ask tons of questions to the Department of Assessment and taxation Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. I would like to invite the residents of this university district to the Build Back Bailey Streetscape event, which is going to have a great deal of discussion. I want people to come out. This is your opportunity. They're going to be re- doing Bailey Avenue and you have an opportunity to have a voice. So this will be taking place on July 10th, which is tomorrow at Westminster Charter School at 6 PM. So please come out and get that information, ask questions. Secondly, I want to invite people to the assessments meeting that will be taking place in our district. Very important. We sent out flyers and cards, so hopefully you'll take advantage of that to get the information as far as assessments. Also want to invite folks to the spaghetti dinner for St. Lawrence Church. We know many of the Catholic parishes are closing. I've been very vocal that St. Lawrence is a very important church in our community. Please come out and support them on Sunday, July 14th from 1.15 to 4 PM for a spaghetti meal. This is a crucial church in our community. They feed thousands of people monthly. And so with them not being there, I don't know where those people will go, but this is an opportunity to help continue to support them for the time being in hopes that they can continue being there. So again, Sunday, July 14th at St. Lawrence Church from 1.15 to 4 PM. Thank you. Councilwoman Everhart. Thank you, Council President. Just a reminder for the Mass in District residents to please attend the assessment meeting. But also that this coming Saturday is our mast and field trip to the Tiff Nature Preserve. If you would like transportation, we have it available. It will be leaving from the Delavan Grider Community Center right around 1020 AM. This coming Saturday, if you would like to register, please call our office, 716-851-5145. Thanks. Okay, nothing else? If nothing else, Council President, motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. So.