5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Here. Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Golombek? Here.
 Here. Council Member Nowakowski? Here. Council President Pridgen? Here. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wingo? Present. Council Member Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. All right. Let's stand for the pledge. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Isaiah chapter 58 is a wonderful and fascinating and incredibly relevant scripture, picking it up about halfway through verse 9.
 If you do away with the yoke of oppression, with the pointing finger and malicious talk, and if you spend yourselves in behalf of the hungry and satisfy the needs of the oppressed, then your light will rise in the darkness and your night will become like the noonday.
 The Lord will guide you always. He will satisfy your needs in a sun-scorched land and will strengthen your frame. You will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring whose waters never fail.
 And then it sums up in verse 12. Your people will rebuild the ancient ruins and will raise up the age-old foundations. You will be called repairer of broken walls, restorer of streets with dwellings. I love that scripture, and I love that it gives sort of an if-then clause. If you do this.
 then you will be like this. And then that verse as it closes about rebuilding ancient ruins and age old foundations in a city like Buffalo, New York, and repair of broken walls, repair of things that have broken down that once provided safety and maybe now need to be repaired and restore of streets with dwellings. It's a beautiful picture of the kind of city I think that all of us want to live in.
 a place where those well-watered gardens happen, where those, the light shines and darkness is dispelled. So I want to pray for you all today as you consider the things that put that into the DNA of the new Buffalo as, as it's rebuilt. Let's pray. Father, Father,
 Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for these words from Isaiah. They referred to a city and cities thousands of years ago, but we take them for us today.
 Lord, you know all the things that are happening in the city and all the things each of these nine council members have to do every day on behalf of a better Buffalo for all moving forward. And Lord, you also know the pitfalls, the discouragements, the things that need to be worked through. You know the policies and procedures that need to be put in place.
 I pray that you'd give them wisdom, wisdom beyond any of their own, collective wisdom, as iron sharpens iron between the nine of them. Thank you, Father, that your hand is on them, that in this position that you've promised that you'll give them wisdom as they lean into you. And Lord, for today's session, we ask your specific presence. And Lord, I pray even now as
 The repair of broken walls and the restore of streets with dwellings falls on each of these. Lord, let the neighborhoods of Buffalo be better because these have chosen to serve. And we pray all these things in your son's name. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members, do you have any more? Council Member Wingo.
 Mr. Chair, thank you for acknowledging me regarding the memorials today. I have two, one of which I would like to say to the family of Flossie Mae Chappelle that you are in our thoughts and prayers. Mother Chappelle, as she was affectionately called at the Faith Baptist Church, she was a stalwart. She is one of those longstanding members who was a fixture at that church. And as
 I was a minister of music at the time for about 10 years at Faith Baptist Church. I would be on the organ and she'd be over on her second row all the way to the right or the left, depending on which way you're looking at it. And she'd break out in song. And it did not matter what. It did not matter what I was playing. It did not matter what key I was in.
 Mama Chappelle would start singing, and you would hear her humming at first, and then she'd just break out, and she'd even interrupt pastor. Pastor would look at her just like, Mama Chappelle. But she was absolutely loved. She will be sorely missed. To her children, Lani and Auntie V, our heart goes out to you in the loss of all of our Mama Chappelle. Then also, just today we lay to rest.
 Brother Samuel L. Jackson III here at the Faith of Baptist Church again. And Brother Jackson was a Mason. He was also an usher.
 And when I tell you when people walked into the Faith Baptist Church, they felt welcome because he was that kind of man that made you feel, number one, safe. And he also made you feel welcome. Like, this is my house. You all right over here. So I just want to say to the family of Brother Jackson, we have you in our thoughts and prayers, and he will be sorely missed.
 and for all of those folks who are at the service today, it was a beautiful, beautiful home going. Pastor James R. Banks II, he really, really preached. He really, really preached a wonderful message and we thank God for all of you. And again, Mr. Chair, thank you for this opportunity to express our love and support for those families. Thank you, sir. Any others?
 Councilmember Wyatt. Today I want to ask for the prayers for my family who used to live in Buffalo. Deacon Jimmy Bryant was a longtime member of...
 Bishop Anderson's church, Prince of Peace. For many years, he was a deacon, a trustee. He taught Sunday school. He and his wife, Diane, moved to Atlanta, and their two children, Sonia and Sean, they joined the church. And the same things he did at Prince of Peace, he
 He continued to work in his church in Atlanta. And so I just want to remember him on this day. I'm a longstanding citizen of the city of Buffalo. And on this day, I want to dedicate this service, these proceedings to him and his memory. Just a good, good man, a great father, grandfather, and a great mentor, a great Christian man that we lost. And we just keep the family in prayer. Thank you.
 Anyone else? Of course we remember Lorna C. Hill, who more than an artist, more than an actress, more than a director, I mean there's just so many names and titles that we could put. This city has lost a great person, her family,
 and of course the arts community. We have suffered in the last, over the last year, two giants actually in the theater field and especially African-American, two of the giants with the loss of Lorna C. Hill and Alvin Holman, member of True Bethel, who was active and,
 Every choir that he was asked to be, very nice man. He goes to join his wife and to rest. And so we remember those names that have been called and also for our frontline workers during this pandemic. And of course, for any man and woman who have given their life for our country or the freedom of other countries since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you all.
 on a motion by Mr. Revere second by Mr. Scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 23rd 2020 are approved council members you have the late files before you are there any objections to any of the late files before you not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review anything that you may not have had a time to review hearing none we will hear the entire agenda from the top
 Item number one, 2020-2024 Consolidated Plan and 2020 Annual Action Plan. Motion. I'm sorry. Motion to send item 22 to CD. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item number three, Dexter's Hat, Caps and Things Broadway Market Lease. Motion to approve items three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine. Seconded by Councilmember Galonved. Councilmember Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 10, notification serial. Motion to receive and file item item 10. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 11, change order for CPO Northland inspection. Motion to approve items 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20. Can you scroll down? Council Member Rivera, I think 19 is actually going to be sent to committee if you'd like. So up to item 18 then. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golumbac? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 19, encroachment on City Right-of-Way, 155 Richmond Avenue. Motion to send to committee, to city.
 Second by Councilmember Feraletto. Item number 20, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement. Motion to approve items 20, 21, 22, 23. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Feraletto. Councilmember Golumbac. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera.
 Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 24, approval to purchase new police vehicles. Motion to send to finance items 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 31. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 32, contract between the City of Buffalo and Devon Health Services.
 This is a motion to approve with the conditions that will be read into the record. Council Member Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. The item that is before us regarding the contract between Endeavor Health Services and the City of Buffalo for the crisis intervention team, there are two amendments that I thought would have been emailed, but I don't have them, but I'll read them into the record.
 First of all, the supervision of the licensed clinical social workers and the licensed mental health counselors who will be employed through Endeavor will be supervised by a licensed clinical social worker with the necessary credential.
 so that we would not be unethical or inappropriate. Next, there will be a report that will be given to, in Section 2 of this contract, in the scope of work. There will be a piece that speaks specifically to ensuring that the Common Council receives a copy of
 of the report from the crisis intervention team to ensure that we have data to discuss at the upcoming quarterly police oversight committees.
 Therefore, we should have at least three reports generated this year that will be addressed during the police oversight committees. And once those reports are submitted to the Common Council, the committee that they will go to clearly and naturally would be the police oversight committee. So those two amendments, the Buffalo Police have already agreed to amend in the contract. And with those amendments, the motion would be to approve this contract.
 All right, so the motion is to approve as amended. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Zalumbak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Winkle? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 33. Mr. Chair? Yes. One more piece that I want to make sure that the community is aware. This did not cost the city of Buffalo a dime.
 to have these mental health workers, these licensed clinical social workers to work for the city of Buffalo. This did not cost the city of Buffalo a dime. Endeavor secured the grant, the one-year grant for this. And this is why I believe it's so necessary for us to get them up and running as soon as possible because that one year will be up this time next year. So we want to get them up and running and make sure that the data proves that this is a best practice. So I want everyone to know that this did not cost the city any more money. We did not,
 change the police budget or increase it for this, this is something that Endeavor found the money for and got for themselves so that this can be done. And I wanna just say, I thank Endeavor for taking the initiative and being diligent and ensuring that they found the funding for this program. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next item. Item number 33, drug asset forfeiture. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 34, Buffalo Firefighter Retirement Incentive Program for Injured Members. Motion to approve items 34, 35, and 36. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto. Yes. Councilmember Galambek.
 Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Excuse me, this is Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. Can we return to item number 33? It was received and filed. I believe this is monies that might be...
 available to the city for to us to actually accept. Can we bring the item up on the screen please? No, we have the actual item. Go again. I'll just give me one moment, I'll hold up. Yeah, this item should be approved. It's talking about money that will be placed in the accounts of, I think BPD.
 $16,771 based on the Drug Enforcement Administration and the drug asset forfeiture agreement that we have with the state. This majority later, historically, we have always received and filed these communications which come to us regularly from DVD. Did you get that, Karen? Normally, we would receive and file. We would receive and file them, usually. Yeah. We normally would do asset forfeiture.
 Okay, if that's what you normally do, that's fine. I've done some of these as approvals in the past, and so I just want to make sure that we do what's supposed to be done, you know, consistently each time and, you know, not change it up because I've done some of these as approvals in the past. Yeah, I don't recall. I do recall
 receiving and filing the asset forfeiture items. Okay. So that's fine. Then we can do as you customarily do. So we'll, we'll let it stand. Um, I'm looking at the item now and because the funds were already received and already deposited, um,
 If they were asking, my understanding, if they were asking us for permission to receive funds, but this is not asking the council for anything. It looks like more information. Okay, great. That's correct, Council President. Okay. Okay, thank you. Thank you, don't let us slip. Next item. Item number 37, Liquor License Notice. Motion to receive and file items 37 and 38.
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 39, Appoint Assistant Legislative Aide. Motion to adopt items 39 and 40. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 41, Notice of Appointment, sent provisional or permanent. Motion to send to CD items, is it 41 and 42? 41 is civil service. Oh, excuse me, 41 and 42, 41 civil service. Second by Councilmember White.
 Item number 42, Minnesota Block Club letter to Councilmember Wyatt. Motion to send the CD. Thank you, Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 43, letter in support of Horn's pension status and eligibility. This is a late file. This item is before us. We've received it. It can be either sent to committee, which I think it should, in case she would like to speak on it. What committee would you send it to?
 where where do we are we parking all of the carry o'harn um which committee council president i believe in majority leader legislation in regard to legislation i'm sorry but it's in regards to our pension so it could go to finance it depends on which avenue you guys want to take it yeah i think that because we already have the request in one committee um we
 we put them in the same committee so that if there's a discussion, that discussion goes around all in the same committee. Council President, it is still split. You also have the original items concerning Carol Horn's pension and civil service. Yeah, that was, yeah, let's put them where, I don't care where we send them, as long as we're sending everything to one committee, so it's not confusing to the public. We'll send it to legislation then?
 Chief of Staff, you have the other one you said in... As City Clerk points out as well, there are several items spread across a couple of committees. You have Civil Service, Ledge, and Police Oversight. This is my suggestion. Let's send them all to Ledge because there's other items coming forward so we don't confuse the public and people don't have to, you know, get online for two different committees, if that's okay.
 we can get the other we can get the other ones pulled out yeah yeah ask the chairman to pull them and send them over thank you just want to go to legislation thank you sir council president if i can just get a second on it sorry 43. goodbye council member mitch nowakowski item number 44 monthly city hall incident report motion to receive and file second by council member wingo
 Item number 45, eliminate 2018 traffic fees and address unequal traffic enforcement in Buffalo. Motion to send items 45 and 46 to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Thank you.
 Item number 47, caucus meeting transcription. Motion to send a motion to receive and file items 47 through 50. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 51, Plymouth crossroads statistics. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by the president pro temp, Stan Lin. Item number 52, supplemental info for special use permit for 6 Highgate.
 Motion to send the legislation items 52 and 53. Seconded by Council Member Farrell-Lettle. Mr. Chair. Mr. Council Member Wingo. Thank you. We're on item 53. This is the Partnership for the Public Goods Community Policing Report. I filed this item because I wanted to ensure, and this item actually should go to the Police Oversight Committee as well,
 I filed this item because there was an item 46 for the criminal justice alarming despair report by Open Buffalo back in 2013. This item was filed, but I would like for the newest data to be included as well, because I believe they do a great job of correlating data.
 And I want to make sure that this item goes to police oversight as well for item number 53. And if we have to revisit item number 46, so that goes to the police oversight committee as well. So that these items are kind of one of them packaged together. But, you know, it is what it is.
 And I would like those sent to police oversight committee if possible. Okay. I'm sorry, Council President. Just so council members are aware, you only can send it to one committee, which legislation meets more than police oversight. So that's why legislation is selected. However, you can't send two because it can have two different motions. If it go to police oversight, have a different promotion than what's in legislation or whatever other committee you choose. So that's why...
 Okay, that is very, very clear. And thank you for the explanation. I would prefer if my colleagues agree that both those items, if we rescind the motion form for McLaughlin to go to police oversight, as well as the item 53 to go to police oversight, that way they can be discussed.
 opined and then motioned in that committee so that the community has an opportunity to look at the data in one committee again and then comment on it and see how we go from there but i prefer that they go to police oversight okay so those with so give me the item numbers 40 item 53 we just motion for that to go to ledge if we can resend that and then motion that to go to police oversight as well as item number 46.
 All right, let's revisit 46 right there. Item number 46, open Buffalo report on criminal justice. Motion to rescind the previous motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion now is to send to the police oversight. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Revisit item number 53 please. Community policing report. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Councilmember White.
 Motion now is to send to police oversight. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Not a problem. Item number 54, BNCRC letter for CDBG funds and emergency solution. Motion to send to finance. Councilmember White. Item number 55, comments on the draft consolidation plan and annual action plan. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item number 56, letter to NFTA.
 This is a receiving file or is this going to a committee? Receiving file? Receiving file.
 It depends on my colleagues, but this could be receiving file or we can send it to CD. This is just a support letter for the renaming of the Utica Metro Rail Station sent to the Niagara Frontier Transit Authority to show our support or my support personally for the renaming to a Mastin District resident, Mr. Robert Coles.
 who was a renowned architect and who left his mark here in the city of Buffalo. And he passed away this last May. And I believe that Mayor Brown is proposing to the NFTA that we renamed this Utica Station that he designed
 after him as an homage to him and all the work that he's did and what he's all contributed to the city of Buffalo. So we could be receiving a file or we can send it to CD for further discussion. It, I don't care. You filed it, so whatever you wanna do.
 Well, we can receive a file. I just want to make sure that it's on the record that we absolutely are in full support unequivocally of renaming the Utica Metro Rail Station, the Robert T. Coles Metro Rail Station. Of course, if I said it before, I'll say it again, that he designed, amongst other buildings like the Frank Merriweather Library and other buildings,
 what do you call those things where you see them and you know exactly where they are, landmarks. There it is. All right, thank you, Mr. Chair. All right, so that's a received and filed. Did I give you a second on that? No, thanks, Mr. President. Second by Council Member Wengel. Committee, civil service, item number one, appoint senior staff supervisor. Civil service. Motion is to approve items one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
 Second by Councilmember Riviere. Keep going. I'm sorry? No, keep going. I didn't see that there was more on there. Okay, so I guess items one through and including 27. Second by Councilmember Riviere. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac?
 Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 28, notices of appointments sent provisional permanent. Motion is to receive and file items numbers 28 and 29. Second by Council Member Rivera. Community Development, item number 30.
 Heritage Point. This item is without recommendation, and I apologize because the iPad wasn't working. I can't see my colleagues. So if you wanted to speak, if you could, maybe Mr. President or somebody make the announcement. I don't see any hands up. I can only see half of my screen. But if somebody wants to speak, just say it. But I don't see anything, so you can make the motion.
 I'm not sure what this was set without recommendation. I'm not sure what. Is this an adopt or approve on this? This is, Council President, this is the one that was originally stated that it was Ellicott, but it's Fillmore. So I think it's Council Member Nowakowski what he wants to decide on this item. I think the motion was to approve. Okay, motion then to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 31, 3148 Main Street. Motion is to send this to the Legislation Committee. Second by Councilmember Farrelletto.
 Item number 32, report a sale for 519 Dodge. Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrell-Leto. Yes. Council Member Golombak.
 Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 33, School Speed Zone from Residents. Motion to receive and file 33, 34, and 35. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Item number 36, report of sale 368 Ensley. Because this is a discharge, we're going to have to take 58 out of order for the discharge, right? Correct. Let's go to item 58 so that we can then deal with item 36. Item number 59, discharge item 20-293 from CD. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Fairlough. All right.
 Back to community development, item number 36, report of sale 368 Ensley. Second approved. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Leddle? Yes. Councilmember Golumbak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes.
 President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Great, Legislation Committee, item number 37, Full Star License 1560 South Park. Legislation. Mitch, no accounts? No. Fair. A lot of them. Council Member Are you with us? Motion is to approve.
 Okay, I think it's approved with conditions. Councilmember Scanlon? Yeah, we're going to approve this with the condition that there's for one year closing at 11pm. Okay, approved with conditions just read into the record by the council. And we'll revisit it a year from now. Thank you, sir. Councilmember Bowman? Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Williams?
 Yeah. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 38, Sidewalk Cafe, 537 Main. Councilmember, filling legislation. Councilmember, can you hear us?
 I'm sorry, I was having, I was breaking up. It was going in and out. The motion is to approve. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golumbik. Yes. Yes.
 Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 39, special use 55 Rhode Island for outdoor dining. Motion is to send to ledge. All right, it's going to be we committed to ledge. Second by Council member Wyatt.
 Item number 40, 2019 food store license renewals. Motion to receive and file items 40, 41, 42, and 43. Second by Council Member Bowman. Resolutions. Item number 57, fee waiver for EVA, farmer's market, street closure. Motion to approve items 57 and 58. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Fialetto. Yes. Council Member Galenbeck.
 Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 59. Oh, we did that. I'm sorry. Item number 60, Commission on Citizen Rights and Community Relations. Motion approved.
 To adopt the results remainder to legislation item 60 and 60, that's 60, 61 and 62. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 63, submission of names to Buffalo Police Department Police Task Force. That's items, which one was it? 63. 63, motion to adopt item 63 and 64. Second by council member Ferlo.
 Item number 65, public availability of labor contracts with the city of Buffalo. Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to legislation for items 65 and 66. I do my council member White. Council member White has a clue.
 Thank you, Mr. President. As we discuss reforms, this is a very important piece as far as transparency. In the past, the contracts have been negotiated in agreement with the union and the administration in private, and then it comes to the council at the
 time of approval. I think that this process, improving this process, bringing it forward early on, I think is very helpful to the public being a prize as well as the council of what has been agreed upon because many times we get this at the last minute and we certainly can't go through the entire contract in a short period of time when they're looking for the approval almost immediately. But again, this adds to transparency. This is what has been called this
 called for as far as the reforms. And I think this is a very good step in the right direction as far as transparency, keeping the public apprised. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Yesterday, one of the colleagues did ask a question I think is important for the public to know that this does not change that the administration and the unions would negotiate the contract. And
 everybody can't be in the room. So this does not change that. This is just when we receive the recommendation to approve the contract that we received the entire contract and not a summary. Council Member Wingo? Yes, Mr. Chair, I want to make sure that we address this concern. What is the council's authority or power or leverage?
 When it comes to the contract that has already been agreed upon between both the union and PERV. So it is not fully ratified until the council makes a move. So they negotiate, then they send it to us. So we still have authority to say no.
 Okay, so I was, I wanted to make sure that was very, very, very clear that the authority that we have is at the back end. Basically, if we ask for something that is not included, we do have the authority to not pass it. But then what happens after we don't pass or adopt something?
 or approve that contract? Corporation counsel, I'm going to answer this, but if I'm wrong, you can correct me. It goes back. They go back. They have to deal with it. And usually it hasn't occurred in my time on it, but from my understanding, if it did, and we stated on the record why, then it goes back for renegotiation. Am I correct, corporation counsel? Correct, sir.
 So, I think it's time to put the union on notice, I'm putting them on notice, that if they give us a contract that does not include some of the things that we the Common Council have been asking for on behalf of our constituency regarding the Buffalo Police Department and their contract.
 then yes, they will be heavily scrutinized. This contract will be read page by page, paragraph by paragraph, sentence by sentence. Every dot, every iota will be read in this contract. And if this is not something that's reflective of what the Common Council has asked for regarding what the people have told us,
 Then yeah, thank you, Council Member Wyeth for putting this out there. And I thank you for this conversation right now because they need to understand that the leverage and the power that we have, it will be used and exercised moving forward now that we are particularly and keenly aware of what the community wants from us. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 Councilmember Scanlon? Thank you. And again, Corporation Council can correct me if I'm wrong, but just to follow up on what you were saying, if a contract comes to us and we do turn it down, they can go back and negotiate further, but in the interim, they would just continue operating under the previous contract. Just so everyone watching is aware. That's correct. You're correct, sir. We are all wearing our Corporation Council hats today and correct. Anyone else?
 Yeah, I'm sorry, Mr. I don't want to go back. I don't mean go back and forth. I don't think this is a back and forth. I think this is just us making sure that the public has all the information. Now, like Councilmember Scanlon just said, if we do enact our authority to send the contract back because we are not particularly satisfied with what it is that we see, this prolongs the process and they continue to operate under the unsatisfactory contract that they currently have.
 It's not necessarily that it's, I'm sorry, corporation council? That is correct in the sense that the department has to operate under something. So you would never leave them without a contract. And the only contract in closest in time would be the immediate one that they were currently operating under. That's similar like when we have contract coming up to
 you know, that is about to expire and we're looking to renegotiate or to have a new extension that normally happens where you will continue the existing contract until you can come up with terms that are agreeable by both parties of a new contract to start the new timeframe for operation. So that's all I have. I just want to make sure that we addressed the obvious. There is a contract that has not been
 I guess, you know, satisfactory to the public for quite some time. And as the Councilman of the Madison District, I'll be ensuring that I have several listening sessions that we will include in our monthly stakeholders meetings to ensure that we hear the voice of our constituencies so that those issues and concerns can be addressed during that time. When is such a time comes that we are to vote on updating
 or renewing the contract with the Buffalo Police Department and the union. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Next slide. I'm sorry, Council Member Wyatt. I just had a question for Corporation Council. I know that in the past, the contract has went without being approved for many years. Is that something in the contract itself that allows for it to go for months and years that it's not approved until the meeting of the minds come together? Well, there...
 there are, I guess, several procedures that takes place whenever there's a renegotiation of a contract. And usually what happens is
 Both parties have determined that they cannot come to an agreement and one party determines that they are at a bypass, an impasse, sorry. This is part of what is available within the Taylor law. So they can find that they're at an impasse and so decide to go to arbitration until they can then come to terms with, you know,
 positions that both parties can agree upon. So during that interim, what we sometimes have is a memorandum of understanding, certain terms that we can at least agree on in order to keep the contract or keep the employees working until we reach to that point where we can come and ratify a final contract that's pleasing to both parties. Is it tailored laws at federal or state?
 The Taylor law is New York state law. Yes. Thank you. All right, next item. Item number 67, special run to pick up electronics and tires. Motion to adopt the results, remainder to CD. Second by council member White, who has the floor.
 I want to thank my colleagues for supporting this. This is something that we talked to Commissioner Finn yesterday during caucus about that, you know, we are having problems in our districts as it relates to electronics being left within our districts as dumping areas as long with tires.
 I know that part of this was done years ago and they were to cut out the electronics, number one, not to fill the landfill with electronic equipment, but also as a cost cutting measure. This, I think, has come to a time where it's almost backfiring on us where people now, because they don't want to go down to Seneca or other locations, are dumping things in our neighborhoods, bringing up all the blight.
 So we, I think that having a special run or creating a time period, maybe every other month or whatever the commissioner comes up with can help us with dealing with the blight.
 in a scheduled way. So I'm really hopeful they can come up with something really soon. I know when I talked to some of my colleagues yesterday and many of them felt that this is a good move. So I hope that we can come up with something that again, is something that we can do for the residents. Many residents can't get all the way down to Seneca. So if we can have a special run every other month or something, I think it'd be very helpful in dealing with the illegal dumping and blank that we are experiencing in our neighborhoods. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Well, as you know, one of my highest pet peeves is littering. So I want to remind the public because these TVs and all this kind of stuff didn't get on the street by themselves.
 people put them there. So if you turn in a dumper, and a dumper, and you can get the information, and they get fined, you get money. I forgot what the total amount is now, but you actually get paid. And somebody out there ought to get paid, because I watched a guy the other day, and I just, I ain't have enough time to get his license.
 and I'm not Rich Fontana, so I wasn't going to chase him down the street, but watched him, grown tail man, dump out on the street and it's horrible. And then the people say, well, why the city not cleaning it? City shouldn't have to clean it. We do, but in other neighborhoods, you see somebody dumping, you have a fit. So all those litter bugs out there, yeah, I got a lot of words for them because it's one of my pet peeves. Shouldn't have started me. Mitch Nowakowski.
 Mr. President, thank you. I would like to first thank your ordinance amendment a few years ago that actually increased the fine for that first. And then the second is I would like to please be added as a co-sponsor to this. Yeah, would you please add me as well? Add me as well. Can you add me four times please? Add me four times.
 Matter of fact, anybody else? I had to clean up stuff the other day from the firecrackers right over by the church. They go on the empty street, pop the firecrackers that could burn down the house and then leave the stuff right there. Unbelievable. All right. I'll go on. You know, I can preach that. I get upset about that. Is that the last item? Yes, it is. Committees.
 Announcement of committee meetings. The follow meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash EFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 10 a.m.
 Committee on legislation is Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday, July 14, 2020 at 2 p.m. Special committees. Special committee on legislation will be Monday, July 20, 2020 at 9 a.m. And only for items already before the legislation committee that requires a public hearing. All right. Anything else? I'm sorry. Council Member Wingo?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. It is that time. Massen has regrouped a little bit, and we are happy to announce that last year's drive-through stakeholders meeting was an absolute success. We gave out a lot of information, a lot of great healthy food for you to take in your car. Don't eat and drive, please. Don't eat and drive.
 But again, this Saturday, July the 11th, from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., if you drive past the Delavan Grider Center on Moselle, we will absolutely have a bag of food for you, as well as our newsletter with some other information and some PPE gear. So please stop by again. We also have free bread if you like bread. We have all kinds.
 types of bread that we give away at these meetings as well. But it'll be safe. We'll all be socially distanced. You will be in your car. And if you drive past, stop by, get some of this good food, good information. Because remember, Mastin District is the district that feeds you every month during our monthly stakeholders meeting. Every month, except the month of June, which we celebrate the Juneteenth, and then the month of November, where we actually have a Thanksgiving brunch. Okay?
 but we still feed you and we still give you good information. That's the only month that's not a breakfast. Other than that, I have one more announcement. We're doing coronavirus testing in the District of Mastin again. We have partnered with the Rafa Family Medicine Center and they will be doing three testing at three locations on three different days
 for your convenience. This is for the entire city of Buffalo to come out and get tested. We are trying to do our part as it relates to contact tracing and ensuring that Buffalo, our curve don't go up.
 So this Thursday, it will be at the Antioch Baptist Church from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. That is at 1327 Fillmore. Come into the parking lot off of either Urban or Fillmore, and there's plenty of space in the parking lot for you to pull up and get tested and then pull out. Please register.
 at raphafamilymedicine.com front slash testing before you get there. If not, if you are not as technically savvy as you would like to be right now, another announcement coming up later, we will have my staff right there waiting to register you before you take the test. So that's this Thursday, 7-9-2020 between the hours of 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. And then also they will be at the Delavan Grider Center
 Next week on the 16th, that will be on a Thursday as well from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Then next Thursday following at the historic 60 Headley Place. That's the mansion over there on Headley right off of Jefferson from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. We are doing our very best to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to be tested. And please, if you have not been tested yet,
 get tested because there are some folks out here who are straight up asymptomatic. Asymptomatic means you don't have the typical symptoms. You don't have the fever. You don't have the tastelessness. You don't have the lack of smell. There are people that are walking around who may have COVID-19 who don't know it because they feel fine.
 So if you have not been tested, please get tested. This is very important because the rest of us want to get through this and get through the other side of this. So please get tested. And also please drive through on Saturday at the Delavan Grider Center for our monthly stakeholders meeting. This will be a drive-through meeting. We'll just give you the information. You can keep it moving. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chair, for this time. And I appreciate you all. Be blessed. Any other announcements or council members? Yeah. Can we actually revisit item number six in civil service?
 i just need to recuse myself of that item oh sure revisit item number six in civil service second by council member white so we can just have a new motion to motion uh new approval with me recent um recusing myself motion is now to approve the item with council member uh christopher scamming being recused we just need a motion to recuse first and that has to be seconded motion to recuse and by council member for your letter
 That takes care of that. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanna invite all those who are watching who are interested in police reform. I will be conducting a meeting with Congressman Brian Higgins tomorrow at six.
 that will be live streamed, where you can hear about the house's policing reform, because I think right now we're trying to get, do reform, but I think we need to know what the federal government and our state elected officials are doing. This will be from the federal side. So Congressman Higgins will be giving us an overview
 And I will be just interviewing him, getting that information as well as sharing what we're doing on the council side. So again, we're arming people with information. Some people are hearing about reform, really don't know what's going on with it. But I think if we can educate the public, we get a better citizenry to be involved and be informed about what's going on. It's just not a few people making decisions, it's more. And so I think that the movement...
 of folks and protesting has been loud and clear but now it's time to give them the information the details behind what we're asking for and what we're trying to accomplish so again tomorrow at 6 p.m. on the Honorable Brian Higgins will be giving us information on the house's bill regarding policing thank you and where is it that they can see right on my facebook page or on the University District page all right any other announcements majority leader
 Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski.