Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for pledge allegiance on the United States of America to the republic for which it stands. As we remain standing, our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. L Warner in these warm chambers so we know prayer will be a little shorter. Mark chapter 12 is a wonderful scripture. I have regularly looked to try to find the name Buffalo in. the bible i've failed to find it but i found what was fairly close recently sort of a mention of a type of buffalo mark 12 of all the commandments which is the most important and jesus replies in verse 29 god love him first and always but then second verse 31 equally important love your neighbor as you love yourself no other commandment is greater than these I'm going to take that as a mention of Buffalo, the city of good neighbors. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. No other commandment greater than these. We're in summer. Every neighborhood is exploding with festivals and food and all kinds of gatherings all the time, all summer long. Festivals sometimes one, two, three every weekend, always. And I want to pray with you today that within these neighborhoods, people are good neighbors one to another. But I want to go a step behind and pray that across neighborhoods, we're good neighbors to one another. And I thought maybe it would be good east, west, north, south, that neighbor spirit spreading. And maybe even enough to overflow into West Seneca, Cheektowaga, Potawanda, and maybe up to Niagara Falls. Love. The second equally important, love your neighbor as yourself. Let's pray. Father, thank you for that scripture and that... Buffalo is known as the city of good neighbors, and we've seen it come together over and over and over again. Certainly in the cold winter seasons, I've seen it happen in my neighborhood many times. But Father, for this summer, the time we're in now, neighborhoods having all kinds of festivals and celebrations. Lord, I pray for safe neighborhoods in this city. I pray for safe streets, safe homes, safe neighborhoods. places to gather. And Lord, I pray even now that you would bless neighbor to neighbor, connect, connect, connect. And Lord, help them to be good neighbors one to another, and then across neighborhood lines where there's been divisions and differences. Lord, be okay if some of our neighbors visited festivals they've never gone to before in neighborhoods they don't often frequent. Lord, build bridges between our neighborhoods. And Lord, I ask that you'd overflow loving neighbor as self. to even the city the suburbs all those around us lord let this be a region where neighbors are known for their goodness one to another i ask in your precious name amen amen thank you dr warner at this time council members see any memorials councilmember wingo thank you mr chair um We would like to ask the city of Buffalo and surrounding areas to please keep lifted the family of the honorable Craig Hanna, the loss of his mother, who was a member of the Faith Baptist Church, where I had the privilege to serve as Minister of Music for 10 years. Her son is an usher there, and we have always had a great relationship. Mother Hannah and I also served on the board of directors together. And she never would shy away from saying what was on her mind and telling the truth. And she will be sorely missed. Our prayers and affections are with the family of Judge Hannah. And we just ask that the city of Buffalo and vice-senate keep them in prayer. We also lost another one of our laborers by the name of Mother Nellie Gravely, who I believe worked in the Buffalo public school system with a few other of my members at Antioch Baptist Church. She had been a long time member. She would be missed as a very knowledgeable and articulate Sunday school teacher. She, I mean, my goodness, she would be able to teach a lesson and not open the book and know all of the scriptures. And then she'd also ask generative questions to ensure that there was engagement from her students. She will be sorely missed. Her presence will be missed. Mother Gravely was only, I would have to say, about 4'10", 11", but she's going to leave such a massive, massive hole. at Antioch Baptist Church, and she will be missed. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Bowman, then Council Member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to enter the name of Raymond Liz into the record, and Raymond was a... kaiser town resident he was a veteran married to his wife for 51 years and he was always active and the type of neighbor reverend ale was talking about a great neighbor and so he'll be sorely missed thank you thank you councilmember colombe Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside neighborhood lost longtime resident Peter Aiello. Some of you probably met Peter without even realizing it. He was a New York State inspections teacher, lecturer, and he had come to a few council meetings. He had a very deep, booming voice. If you heard him once, you heard him. But he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, especially his wife, Candy, and his Riverside friends. And he was friendly with a lot of the building inspectors here at City Hall as well, because he would call me up and he would start throwing names at me, and I was like, who do you work for how do you do all this stuff and he says i've trained a lot of your guys um so uh like to keep them in our minds and our prayers i want to remember one of our city hall workers lauren always smiling, would be out. She started in the cafeteria here actually. And when you could see them cooking and Lauren would remember so many of our, what we liked. So then she moved over into building engineering, would set up, be out a lot with the mayor when he would set up. And always just smiling through the hallways and speaking, she passed on suddenly. and was funeralized yesterday at the True Bethel Church in beautiful ceremony with her son and her grandchildren and so many friends. And the city of Buffalo, the employees, really showed up for Lauren. And I said, somebody who wasn't a commissioner, didn't have a title or office, her office door, with her name on the office door, she just brought in so many people together. And honestly, you know, I'm going to miss her a lot because when we went to high school together and walked in, it was always never councilmember. Thank God. It was always just, hey, Darius. And it was a, hey, Lauren. And so I am grateful. I'm grateful even to the administration for bringing her on into this building after things changed in the cafeteria. So it was a beautiful ceremony. Any others? And as we always do for the men and women who have given their life for the freedom of this country and any other country for their right to democracy. We pause in this chamber for a moment of silence. Thank you all. I failed to mention, I wrote it down, a miracle young lady, 13 years old, who was killed this week. It's just heartbreaking when you get a teenager that young with senseless violence, so we remember her also. Um, do we have special presentation from Councilmember Wyatt? Thank you, Mr. President, and I want to ask the organizers or founders of Buffalo United Resiliency Center to come down. And in honor of Minority Mental Health Month, we want to honor them. And I'm going to read what they do because I want to give them respect for stepping up during a tragedy. On May 14, 2022, when the city of Buffalo experienced a tragic event that was born of racism and deeply impacted the community, resulting in the loss of lives, numerous injuries and profound trauma. The Buffalo United Resiliency Center was established to provide a place of healing and support for individuals and their families affected by this horrific mass shooting. Buffalo United Resiliency Center serves not only those directly impacted by a tragic incident, including the families who lost loved ones, those who were present and injured, and the first responders, but also extends its support to all those who endured. during the attack, the employees on Jefferson Avenue tops and residents within a one block radius of this incident. Now therefore, the Buffalo Common Council proclaims in deep appreciation and gratitude during Minority Mental Health Awareness Month to the Buffalo United Resiliency Center for their unwavering dedication to providing person-centered trauma-informed care, fostering health, healing, and creating a supportive community for individuals and families impacted by the tragic events of May 14, 2022, recognizing the vital role in promoting resiliency and recovery and hope in our city. So I really thank you for stepping up and not just talking about it but being about it. Please come to the podium. Congratulations. Hello, everyone. And thank you so much for that acknowledgement. My name is Melissa Archer. I am the Chief Operating Officer for the Buffalo Urban League. So I would like to thank the Council President Pridgen and his entire Chamber for this acknowledgement. Myself, along with our President, Mr. Tom Buford, and our staff, we are very honored and humbled to have been called to serve our community. And if you don't know what the Buffalo Urban League does, we are a nonprofit that has provided positive change and opportunity for hundreds and thousands of community members in providing empowerment, secure economic self-reliance, parity, power, and civil rights. And our organization provides services and programs from, you know, for children all the way up to seniors. As you stated, on May 14th, a tragedy did strike our community when a person that was filled with hate and racism targeted our local CHOPS market, killing 10 individuals, injuring many, and traumatizing our community. Out of the Census Act, the Buffalo United Resiliency Center, or BIRC as we call it, was created. It is one of the Buffalo Urban League programs that is being funded by the New York State Office of Victim Services. In this space, we are offering healing and support to individuals and their families impacted by this horrific event. We understand how trauma affects all individuals, families, and communities differently, so we provide person-centered, trauma-informed, and a holistic approach tailored to each person's experience. We are here to serve those who seek comfort and community in the wake of the tragedy, and it's just like you stated, anyone that was inside of TOPS, outside of Tops. Our scope is a lot larger. It's anyone in the community that has been impacted by this Top shooting and I don't know anyone that has not been. So we are very honored for this acknowledgement. We are definitely diligently doing the work. We are located at 1140 Jefferson Avenue and we're just very honored to serve and try to help heal our community. Thank you so much. Now let's have a presentation from Councilmember Columbe. Command down, Black Rock Riverside Alliance. Ann McCooey and Mary Ann Kedron. I work for 32,000 people, but I work for Mary Ann most of all. At least it seems like that sometimes. I'm kidding. No, I'm not. But I want to welcome you both to council chambers and I think there's going to be a little challenge that is going to be going on. So without further ado. We do. We have a really great challenge for all of you. The Black Rock Riverside Alliance was incorporated as a not-for-profit in 2011 and it was born out of the early 2000 Good Neighbor Planning Alliance revitalization plans for the four communities in the North District. Grant Amherst, West Hurdle, Black Rock and Riverside. Mary Ann led those planning sessions and knew in her infinite wisdom after they were done in these beautiful Multi-page documents in full color We're probably gonna sit on a shelf for a while until there was enough infrastructure to have the city or somebody else come along and implement them. And she said, you know what, let's just form a not-for-profit and do it ourselves. And so for the last 12 years, those documents have been kind of our guideline on what we do to revitalize our communities. And we've done everything from environmental work. We have certified the city of Buffalo as the 16th largest National Wildlife Federation habitat community in the country and Erie County as the sixth largest in the country. We're now actually we got asked by the people in Niagara County. Can you do it for us too? So we're working with them. We are going to be creating a wildlife corridor along the Niagara River because we are a bird migratory and a butterfly migratory pathway. It is important that we are good stewards of our community. and the North District has 4.2 miles of waterfront property. We're one of the largest waterfront properties in the city of Buffalo. Say that again? We are one of the largest waterfront communities in the city of Buffalo between the Skagitakota and the Niagara River. So we believe that... like the invocation, that it isn't just about our community, that we want to reach across communities. We want to share the joy and the beauty that we have. And so last year we created something that has been kind of in our mind for a while, and that is the Urban Treks Challenge, the Western New York Urban Treks Challenge, We partnered with an organization, or a guy actually, who created Outside Chronicles. And he normally does hiking challenges in places like the Adirondacks and the Finger Lakes and what you think of as hiking challenges where people are going up steep mountains and all of that. And we said to him, what about promoting the beauty of hiking in the city of Buffalo? And he was kind of intrigued by the idea. So we created we created hiking tracks because it's not really it's more trucking than it is hiking. There's no elevation changes. So we found in the city of Buffalo, our tracks were all mobility accessible. They are child friendly, they are elderly friendly, they are dog friendly with the exception of Tift Farms, but you know we're working on that. And it was a great way to show off the beauty that's found here in the City of Buffalo. Last year we had 253 people sign up to take this challenge. They had to complete 10 of the 12 tracks. 163 completed the trucks and they came from Rochester, Batavia, the southern tier, the other side of the Pennsylvania border. They came from all over as well as people in the city exploring parks that they've never been to and they brought money with them. They stopped at restaurants for lunch after they did a hike through Kaz Park, or they checked out the ice cream parlor at the corner of Riverside Park. for ecotourism, it was really a boon to these communities. And there's a private Facebook page, if you sign up to do this challenge, you get to be a member of the private Facebook page, and people were posting pictures about how beautiful it was. Each trek has a little bit of the history of that area. It also has a little bit of what you will find in nature, the natural assets of that park, so that you can look for that on your trek. This year we've launched the second one. We added four different tracks to it. So now the challenge has 16 options Challenge is complete 10, 12 of them between June 15th and October 15th. We launched this a month ago and we already have six people who completed the challenge. Six people in a month have visited 12 of our city parks. And the comments on how beautiful they are and how much they enjoyed it, I think probably my favorite comment was the young mom who has been taking her two daughters out on the tracks. and they're young, they're under the age of six, and she took her husband and she posted, she said, I didn't realize until I did the first one, that I could bring my husband and he could finally manage these pathways and hike with the rest of us. Thank you so much for doing this so we can do this as a family. So, our challenge, because Joe is noted as the walking council member, Joe manages to walk every street in our district in every year. You'll see him walking all the time. And we are challenging Joe to sign up for the urban treks challenge and to go out and hike the other parks in the other council districts. We're fortunate we have a couple in our district, but there are all these other parks. And to go out and see what the park systems look like in the other districts in the City of Buffalo. So Joe, in order to get you started on your challenge, a little bit of information about it and a limited edition western new york hiking truck challenge hat for 2023 this was the logo was designed by um north district businesswoman marinette coslow who owns inspired buffalo we love her design the buffalo walking along the cityscape with the sun setting behind setting or rising behind them and joe Well, challenge accepted. And I'd like to go one step further and challenge my eight colleagues here. If the hefty guy, stocky guy, chubby guy on the Common Council can walk two in his district, and I'm going to try to make it to all 14 that are on the list. But if I can do it, you Svelte fellows can do it even better. So I accept your challenge. Thank you. Thank you. And consider... And consider yourselves all challenged as well. My office will be sending each of you a special code that you can use for your staff members and yourselves to get a $5 discount on the $20 registration fee. Proceeds do benefit the BRR Alliance. And then we're going to track to see which district office has the most people who start to sign up for the challenge how many parks total your office completes and you individually there will be some special incentives for each of you if you hit certain uh certain things um along the way in the challenges and we look forward to seeing you go out and explore the beauty of the rest of the city thank you so much thank you all right thank you very much Council President, I have a challenge for Council Member Golombic as well. Okay. I'd like to challenge him to find a hat that would actually fit my head. Okay. We'll find one. We'll find one. Well, that's his challenge. I accept the challenge to sponsor Council Member Golombic. So what do I have to do? Just give you some money, $20 or something? $40. All right. All right. All right. All with the business of the people. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on June 27th, 2023 are approved. Councilmembers, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing and hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. We welcome Mayor Summeryou out of the clerk's office who is here today to observe our meeting. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. From the top. Item number one, appoint Deputy Mayor. Motion to send the civil service items one and two. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number three, annual action plan amendment for special economic development. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Fierlotto. Item number four, a Bucceas Pierogi Company for Broadway Market Lease. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number five, change order for Consultant Services for a Curb Management Plan. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number six, permission to grant Niagara Mohawk and Verizon an easement at Ralph C. Wilson Centennial Park. motion to approve second by councilman noah kowski enter number seven professional services for city of buffalo small business grant program motion to send the finance saying my councilman columbia council members canada has floor thank you council president um i want to thank the office of strategic planning in particular lisa hicks and alex carducci and trevor riffis for working with us over the course of the past year to establish and implement this program there lately there's been a lot of conversation taking place in these chambers in our caucus meetings in the media about small business assistance And I really think that this program could be a bit of a game changer for our districts We're establishing establishing this as a bit of a pilot program for a number of years my businesses In certain areas within my district wouldn't qualify for assistance for different types of funding, different pockets of funding, whether it be federal, state, county. Because of where they were, they did not, were not eligible for certain types of funding. But that doesn't mean they weren't facing hardships at times. And in particular, during the course of the past few years with the pandemic, that they weren't particularly hard. And we're not eligible for certain pockets of funding. Other places were. So what we've done is. We have forfeited 100, my office has forfeited $100,000 of its discretionary funding and a third-party vendor was selected through an RFP process to administer small business assistance to Businesses in my district with this funding the beautiful part of it my district My council office is removed from the process the office of strategic planning is removed from the process So when applications come in they'll be viewed at their merits Not who knows who and things like that and things of that nature So I really want to thank them. I think that this could be a game changer for my district Again, this is being established as a pilot program to do this, but I think we could expand upon it in the future as well. And if you could share with us at another time how, because I know how that's going to businesses, you know, so we can get more into details that anybody might be interested in. It is actually going to finance, so I can talk more next week at finance about parameters and things like that. Thank you. Next up. Item number eight, report is so 154, Brinkman. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number nine, report is so 341, Fox. Motion to approve items nine through 15. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 16, request for approval to enter into Richardson Center Complex Reverto Agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 17, response to Lisa Hicks' letter regarding art in public places. Motion to receive and file items 17 and 18. Second by Council Member Norikowski. Item number 19, annual audit plan for 2024. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 20, change order for Dorothy J. Collier exterior improvements. Motion to send to finance. Motion to approve items 20 through 36. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 37, appoint Chief Building Inspector. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by President Prooth, Tim Scanlon. Item number 38, approval to accept water donation from the Goodness Project. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 40, appoint Fire Captain. Motion to send to Civil Service item 40 and 41. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 42, food store license 2824, aka 2820 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation items 42 and 43. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 44, lodge and house license 188 Strauss. Motion to approve items 44 through 46. Item number 47, G-Techno contract extension. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 48, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 48 through 50. Seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 51, a plain public safety dispatcher. Motion to send the civil service items 51 and 52. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Miscellaneous, item number 53, request to speak on issues at Erie Basin Marina. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say it again since what I've spoken about in caucus is a letter from my office will go out to Smith Boys because there will be slipholders in these chambers in community development to be able to speak about their concerns. And I want to reiterate again is that Smith Boys is the operator of this city-owned docks. They are in charge for the day-to-day management. They need to be here. There's no question about it. They will be formally known. I'll leave calls. I'll send a message in a bottle. They need to be here. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Positions, item number 54, special use 2264 aka 2260 Genesee Lodge slash private club. Motion to send to legislation city planning board items 54 and 55. Second by President Pro Tempstam. Civil service, item number one, certificate of appointment for motor equipment mechanic. Motion is to approve item number one. Second by the majority leader Revere. Item number two, appoint fire captain. Motion is to receive and file items 2, 3, and 4. Second by item majority leader Revere. Item number 5, appoint legal secretary. Motion is to approve. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 6, notice of appointment for bridge operating engineer. Motion is to receive and file item 6 through and including 14. Second by council member Fairlove. Finance, item number 15, Buffalo Municipal Water Finance Authority Resolution. Motion to approve. Second by council member Fairlove. Item number 16, proposed agreement with Bencare Payroll Insurance HR Solutions for summer youth. Motion to approve items 16, 17, and 18. Second by Council Member Rivera. Item number 19, OSP 2023-2024 Annual Action Plan. Okay, I'm going to motion to approve, but I was told that I'm going to get additional information regarding the demolitions of 480,000, a detailed list of where those demolitions are going to occur for some affordable housing. I know I've done this in the past, and I've gotten screwed. I'm not expecting to get screwed again. And I hope that they hear me clearly because I want to work with you. But when you play this game with me, I'm not going to be really happy. So I'm approving it based on the conversations we've had, which were good today. So thank them, and I'll get the details on the $480,000 for demolitions. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 20, amendment to agreement between the City of Buffalo and Beverly Gray Business Exchange Center. Council President, okay, motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Community Development, item number 21, designated developer agreement for Hayes Reality, Realty, LLC. Motion is to approve items 21 through and including 31. Second by Council Member Winkle as the floor. I'm recusing myself from item 24 and item 26. Second by Council Majority Leader Revere. Item number 32, reported cell 817 Glenwood. Neston District. Yes. Recommit. Motion to recommit items 32 and 33. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item number 34, Citizens Audit for New York General Election. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 35, Report of Cell 141, Newburgh. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Legislation, item number 36, Booster License 591, Walden Avenue. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 37, use car dealer 2480 Delaware. Motion to approve items 37 through 42 with conditions on 40. Second by Councilmember Golombek and on this item, item number 38. Thank you for your support. This amendment to law, this is dealing basically with pawnbrokers. And a few years ago, a Buffalo police detective contacted me, said they were having a problem because you have people who will break in the house, take items, take it to the pawn shop, and there was no way for the Buffalo police to track it. so they go into the pawn pawn shop and say we're looking for diamond ring well they've gotten 10 diamond rings that day this would require that pawn shops licensed pawn shops in the city would have to photograph and keep a digital record that would be available to buffalo police department upon request correct okay to buffalo police department upon request so that if a detective then went into a pawn shop they they could more narrow it down and there would be items. So it hopefully discourage theft, definitely would discourage them from bringing items in the Buffalo. Now, hopefully the municipalities around us will adopt some of the same laws if they don't have them after the ratification of this one, signature of the mayor or the timing, we'll send this to other municipalities close to us, Cheektowaga, Kenmore, all around us to ask them if they don't have this, that they consider it. The second thing that will be coming forward to add to this is scrap dealers. Because right now we got a high theft rate of catalytic converters. And they're taking them over to the scrap yard. Detectives are not able to trace who's bringing these in. So this will require identification, but this is a requirement on the pawn shop owners to keep a record along with who brought the items in. So it's a big step, and thank our Corporation Council for drafting it. And now, thank you all for supporting it. Item number 43 special use for 135 Pomona for now owner occupy short-term rental motion to recommit second by president pro temp Scanlon item number 44 special use 912 and what motion to approve singing by councilmember, Columbia Resolutions item number 56 waiver of special event fees for the Burmese wrist tying ceremony motion to approve second by councilmember boat a glum it I item number 57 commissioner beads motion to adopt second by councilmember nowakowski item number 58 formal inquiry into accountability and safety measures following the july 2nd 2023 dpw vehicle incident motion to adapt the resolves and remainder to civil service second by councilmember nowakowski Item number 59, fee waiver for Somalia Independence Day flag raising. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number 60, reallocation of funds for COVID-19 relief to City of Buffalo District small businesses. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Council Member White. Thank you, Council President, and I want to thank my colleagues for supporting this. And also thank some of my residents, Mr. Griggs from Wright Avenue Block Club Leader came down specifically because he heard about the whole hubla about Bray Miller. And I think that at this point in time, we've heard so much about it. And we hear constantly, I'm getting phone calls in my office routinely now because others are asking how can they get some of these funds for their businesses. And so I hope that those businesses who are interested in getting this funding or think they qualify will come to the finance committee, let us know what their needs are so that we can assist them. We've been given information that we've done the outreach. And some of these businesses may not have qualified, and some of them may not have gotten the information. But this is another opportunity for those businesses to come and be heard in hopes that we can find some money for those businesses. To give one business almost $600,000 and these other businesses to be left in the cold is shameful for us. We've been trying to get this ARP money out for the last couple of years, and it hasn't moved very quickly. I heard very recently that there's a business that's going to be closing because of the pandemic. And so there are businesses still hurting and ailing from the pandemic, and we have an opportunity to assist them. So I hope that coming to finance and hearing from these businesses, there's a new opportunity for them to get these much needed resources to help somebody to keep their business open. you mr president well i was going to ask for item three to be revisited but i'll now that you brought open that door i'll just say briefly that this that the braymiller discussion will continue tuesday in finance at 10 a.m and i think that probably the majority of us have gotten calls on both sides you know that calls we want want you to support bray miller you got calls saying i'm a small business i need the help so it'll be in that committee meeting on the 10th on at this tuesday uh where people will be able uh to speak uh about their feelings on on that item uh... and where we go from there i know that there was a push and it's expectancy from the media uh... they vote today uh... but uh... just because something is before us does not mean that this legislative body is forced to vote on it on that day so i agree with you that that will be the place and we'll discuss it next tuesday we had a quiet Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, July 18, 2023 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, July 18, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on community development is Tuesday, July 18, 2023 at 1 p.m. And committee on legislation is Tuesday, July 18, 2023 at 2 p.m. Special committees. Committee on police oversight will be Wednesday, July 19, 2023 at 11 a.m. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Any breakfasts, lunches, dinners, proms? Council member Fialetto. Thank you. This week the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra is going to have three free concerts that happen to be in the Delaware district. This evening at Bidwell Parkway, or Bidwell Park. Elmwood on Wednesday evening the concert is gonna be at North Park Academy which is public school 50 formerly public school 66 and this Sunday 7 1 6 day it will be at the Albright Knox all three of the concerts start at 7 p.m. all right motion to adjourn second by councilmember why