Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Warren Priesen. Stand for the pledge. I believe in the existence of the flag of the United States and the liberty of all that it was once said, and only it will be lived for, for ever and ever. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. We don't have a lot more opportunities before August, but I want to make sure we use those well. First Timothy Chapter 2.
 I urge them, first of all, that requests, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for everyone. And then he sort of a specially specific group, for kings and those in authority, that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. This is good and pleases God. The prayers be made for those who act decision-making authority. Sometimes it feels like when you're in a position of authority that there's an X on your chest.
 but that it's easy to criticize, but God's call is to pray. And an opportunity to pray sometimes for people that we don't agree with and agree with you, but prayers are always valued and appreciated, I assume, by everyone in the chambers, certainly by me and by everyone who has the position of authority.
 So I want to pray and bless those that are part of the constituency and bless each of you as well as leaders who have authority that you exercise to others. Thank you for this powerful scripture. It reminds us that in a public discourse that gets so messy these days, that you've called us to come up higher, above the low points, and to get into clearer air with less turbulence, just like a pilot pulling the nose of the airplane skyward.
 Lord, I pray today, even as this scripture suggests, that for each of those in authority, each of those in this chamber who have a sphere of authority that you've granted and favored them with, I pray, Lord, that they take it as a sacred obligation today.
 I pray for their wisdom, their strength, their understanding, their patience, their listening ability, an ear attuned to the needs of those around them, and a clear understanding of what they're to do with the knowledge and information that they gather. Thank you for your good hand on this chamber. And to all those throughout the city, nation, and world who exercise authority, we ask now you'd call them higher, and we thank you in your precious son's name.
 Amen. Amen. Council members, memorials, Council Member Golombek.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Really very sad and tragic death occurred in the past week. A gentleman from my district, Michael Shoemaker, was out for a motorcycle ride and was driving in the southern tier and allegedly a driver was distracted and went through a stop sign. He was just driving probably 60, 55 miles an hour and was driving in the southern tier
 was hit and killed, Michael Shoemaker. He's leaving behind his dear wife, Margaret, family, friends, and he's going to be very, very sorely missed by residents of Black Rock and the North District. The others? Council Member, President Pro Temp's family. Thank you. I'd like everyone to keep in their thoughts and prayers. The family of Betty Egan, who passed away this past week, a longtime resident of South Buffalo on Freeze Avenue.
 I was visiting, he was extremely involved in the city of Buffalo. She was also a city employee at the time. She actually was Larry Quinn's secretary when he was the development officer for the city. So she worked here a long time, had a tremendously large family throughout South Buffalo and the city of Buffalo. She's going to be missed by all. Council Member Fontenot, I'd be remiss if I didn't mention the loss of life.
 state level and also New York City level with our police departments that have had a hard week with people just not respecting law enforcement and taking the lives of two individuals. New York City lost a very, very decorated parade officer at the bulk of the New York City Police Department. And a state trooper was also killed this week when attempting to help in a domestic situation.
 Two in one week is just absolutely astonishing. It's something that I hope we don't see again. And I hope that people do respect the work that the police departments across America do. I'll respond with those two remarks today. Thank you.
 Any others? Hearing no others, we had 16 service people die in a plane crash since our last meeting and one in Afghanistan. And so we pause not only for all of the names who have been called, but those who serve to protect our country and other countries who have lost their life in the fight for freedom. We pause in this chamber for a moment of silence.
 Thank you. I forgot to mention, Pastor Andre Clark and Vince Clark's mom, Janet Clark, passed and purposes to this matter. Yes. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 27th were approved.
 Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right, as those late files come before you, to object to them if you have not had enough time to read them. We're going from the top. Item number one. We've been joined by Council Member Fonte. Item number one, designated developer 2351 Delaware. Motion.
 approved. Seconded by Councilmember Golombet. Item 2, 854 Allican Street, request air rights easement over Goodrich.
 Motion to send the CD items to CD and City Planning Board items 2 and 3. Seconded by Council Member Fairlove. Item 4, 1764 Hurdle Avenue, negative declaration. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 5, Reporter Sales, Sinatra & Company Real Estate. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 6, ESDC Beverly Gray Business Center. Motion to approve items 6 and 7. Motion.
 second by council member fontana and can we pause one second my agenda just
 Next item. Item 8, Audit of Erie Bays Marina. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Vera Leto. Item 9, Interfund Loan Fire Apparatus. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 10, Appoint Associate Accountants. Motion to send to Civil Service. Items 10, 11, and 12. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 13, Notification Serials.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 14, change order for Unboxed Auto Rep Elevator Modernization. Motion to approve items 14 through 16. Second by Councilmember Fahler. Item 17, proposed rules for small cell attachment. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 18, reported bids lower Main Street Rehab. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franczak.
 Item 19, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to send items 19 and 20 to Finance. Second by Council Member Wyeth, who has the floor. I just, thank you Mr. Chair, I just want to speak on this just briefly, because I was at a community meeting and, you know, we're all trying to deal with the violence in our community and seeing what resources are available to give other young people alternatives. And so I'm thankful that the Majority Leader moved this item to Finance.
 to see if we can utilize some dollars, those dollars for youth activities. I know with all the things that are happening, we are trying to find out what we can do to help our young people. So whatever efforts that we can put forth, whatever dollars that are available, we need to see what we can do to save our young people. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item 21, permission to accept stop DWI funding. Motion to approve items 21 through 24. Second by Council Member White. Item 25, approval of purchase new police vehicles. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Ponsetta. Item 26, appoint Administrative Secretary. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 27, Food Star License 3172, Bailey. Motion to send to legislation items 27...
 Through 31. Second by Council Member Fernandez. Item 32, Sidewalk Cafe, 49 West Chippewa. Motion to approve items 32 and 33. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item 34, appoint personnel specialist to. Motion to send civil service. Second by Council Member Fontaine. Item 35, permission to sole source equipment for Merrick Scan Pro. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombik. Item 36, item return to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval.
 motion to receive and file item 36 through 40 second by council member White item 41 appoint legislative aide motion to adopt items 41 through 47 second by council member Fairlady item 48 notice of apartments seasonal motion to receive and file second by council member Blumberg item 49 notice of apartments temporary provisional permanent motion to send civil service second by council member Fresno item 50 notice of apartment council in turn motion to adopt second by council member Wendell
 Miscellaneous items, item 51, central staff task list. Motion to receive and file item 51 and 52. Second by Council Member Lombeck, item 53, RSOA task force. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Fontana, item 54, Buffalo Lakeside Commerce Park cleanup. Motion to receive and file items 54 through 56.
 Second by Council Member Fairleather. Petitions, item 57, use 317 Hopkins. Motion to send to the Legislation and City Planning Board, items 57 through 62. Second by President Proctor. Committees, civil service, item 1, appoint detective. Motion to approve items number 1 and 2. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 3, oppose hiring non-resident employees. Second by the Mayor.
 Motion to receive and file. Item by Majority Leader. Finance Committee, Item 4, Annual Audit Plan, 2017-2018. Receive and file. Item by Council Member Wyatt. Item 5, Discretionary Fund Guidelines. Motion to receive and file. Item by Council Member Wyatt. Item 6, Third Quarter Gap Response. Was that 7, Jerry? 6. 6.
 Okay, six through and including number eight, motion to receive in five. Second by the Majority Leader. Legislation Committee, item nine, food store license, 777 Maine. Nine, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Blingo. Item 10, food store, 1241 Lovejoy. 10 and 11, motion to approve with conditions. Second. Second by Council Member Blingo, and could we visit item number nine, and I'll come right back to you, Council Member Blingo, after we revisit. Sure, motion to reconsider item number nine. Yes.
 Second by Majority Leader. Can that please add with conditions on that one? That's approved with conditions. On nine. Yes. Set by District Council Member. Motion has been added to include the conditions set by District Council Member. Thank you. Second by Majority Leader. And Council Member Wingo, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are approving another food store in the Madison District because we don't have a food
 a grocery store master, so we understand the necessity of these food stores, these corner stores, delis. However, we're approving with conditions, and I just want to let everyone know, and just go on the record, for the sake of the community, that they understand. We approve these food stores based on these conditions, and we expect the food stores to abide by and comply with the conditions.
 There are a number of food stores in my district who have been complacent and who have also been noncompliant with the food store conditions. We are actively and currently setting up and putting in place a system
 Similar to the system that we had worked when we were in, when I was working in Councilmember White's district, to ensure that the community has the ability to not just police these food stores, but to survey them and to secret shop in these food stores. So if at any time
 Anyone goes into a food store and they find anything that they think is not compliant with the food store conditions of which we will be providing the community with, they can report those issues and they will be going through my office and then through the Office of Inspections and Permits to ensure that they are in compliance and they remain in compliance.
 For too long we've let them get away with low quality service, number one, and then number two, low quality foods. There are stores in my district also, Council President, where they have received money from the county to have fresh produce in the stores. I go into these stores, there's no more than two or three apples and maybe a half a banana.
 i'm exaggerating but the point is they don't have enough healthy foods in these stores that i think the state gave them the money to put in these stores there's no food in these stores for the for the community to eat healthier so this store is going to be approved with conditions and every store after this will be heavily scrutinized on their practices as far as you know interacting with the community and what they're doing for the community thank you mr chair thank you sir and anytime that there is a license required
 As the public needs to know, when there's a license required from the city,
 as an indication that there is some oversight expected from government. So a store, whether you're a store or whether you have a used car lot, you have to have a license to operate it, which means it is not a right, it is a privilege. It is, you know, you pay for it, obviously your license, but there is oversight. And so people should be aware that they can
 complain to the right authorities, and in your case, it can complain to your office if they're not complying with something that is legal. Some people in my district at times have wanted enforcement on things that were not illegal. So they say, you know, we have one story, they say, we don't like the planners he has outside.
 We want this license revisited. You know, it's a reach if it's not something that is a part of the law, the regulation, the conditions that are set. And so you make a good point. You have the floor. Thank you. One more thing also. If the public is watching, I would urge the public to make those formal complaints regarding the stores that are not in compliance. I had an experience at a corn store not too long ago.
 And when I went to go investigate or have the store investigated, there were zero complaints about the store. Yet, I personally witnessed expired foods and the illegal selling of individualized packages of food that is not supposed to be sold separately in this store.
 Now, this is not illegal, but the clerk at the store literally used all types of profanity to kick me out of his store. Now my only issue with that was if you treat me that way, that means you're treating the rest of my community that way. The problem is, Mr. Chair, that there aren't any complaints on that store.
 So we're starting from scratch. Now everyone's saying, well that store is this, that store is that. They've always done that, but there's no record of it. So how are we supposed to actively help you close this store down or demand better service if there's no history of poor service? So if the public is watching, I would urge them to please report any issues to 311 and then please call the office here in the Mass Injury so we can begin to take care of all of these issues. And...
 also partner with us moving forward so that we can ensure that these stores are in compliance. Because my people deserve better. We don't have a grocery store and if this is what we have, we deserve better. And I believe, I can't remember who said this, but there's a Topps on Jefferson, there's a Topps on Grand Street, there's a Topps on Main Street, there's Topps everywhere.
 The difference between the quality service that one types get versus the other types is the number of complaints they receive.
 they don't know they're not doing a great job if we don't call them and tell them they're not doing a great job. So as a community we have to speak up and speak out against anything that we don't think is fair, anything that we don't think is right, so that we can help the people who are running these stores to run a better business by bringing to their attention that these things are wrong. If they don't tell us, we won't know. So moving forward, I just want to urge the community to please communicate with us, call 311 first,
 And then call my office. There is a paper trail regarding the low-quality serve that we've been receiving. Thank you, Mr. President. Absolutely. Anybody else? Next item. Item 12, mobile food truck. 12, 13, and 14, motion to approve. Seconded by President Proctor. Item 15, property manager. 15 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit.
 Second by the majority item 16 secondhand dealer 1853 Genesee motion to approve I
 second by councilmember fine channel 17 sidewalk cafe 765 Elmwood motion to approve with conditions and by councilmember Here in little and making sidewalk cafe for or to Connecticut motion to approve Send my majority and 19 sidewalk cafe 128 Genesee that was without recommendation and the recommendation of the district councilmember is approved
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 20, used car dealer, 855 Sycamore. 20 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by Councilmember Frey, a letter. Item 21, zoning map amendment, 314 Myrtle. That is also without recommendation. Awaiting. We can approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 122, use 2090, Genesee. 22 is motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. 123, use 116, Myrtle.
 23 is motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fila. Item 24, food store license 881 William. That is motion to approve with conditions. That have been thoroughly laid down by the District Council Member. Yeah, we had that conversation at committee. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 25, proposed amendment chapter 437, taxi cab ride sharing. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombet. Resolutions. Item 63, set hearing Hurdle Avenue right-of-way.
 Motion is to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 64, abandonment approval, Vertal Avenue right-of-way. Motion to send the CD.
 Second by Council Member Frenton. Item 65, resolution for fee waiver praise in the park. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frenton. Item 66, strengthening preservation code. Motion to send to legislation, preservation board, and corporation council. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 67, appoint assistant legislative aide. Motion to adopt item 67 through...
 Item 71. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 72, approval of air rights easement over Goodrich. Which item is this? 72. 72. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba. Item 73, County Council Chief of Staff appointment. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. And Mr. Ertha is here in the chambers, and I think that it is...
 shows of the work in the last few weeks to have council members applaud you for your work. And of course, we expect nothing less. One of my, well, he's not a vet yet, but he is also a part of the military. I won't mention the branch. I mean, he chose what he chose, but, you know, I mean, he didn't choose Air Force, but it's okay. It's okay. But young man who was working hard with his staff and the public
 will be well served by the appointment. Thank you, Mr. President. I used to hang around these chambers in the mid-'60s, you know, during the JFK and post-war, because my father, Stan Franczak, one of his jobs was chief of staff at the Common Council. And among the staff at that time was Clifford Bell, who was part of that staff.
 Rich Toby's wife Sue Green, John Nestor, some of the others I don't remember, but there was a staff at that time so I was watching Chiefs of Staff for many many years and when I saw Mr. Ertha come to staff, I saw that he had the work ethic, the energy, looked at it, you know, the military training. He always produces what you ask him. I think he'll do a great job. I also saw on his resume, he's also part of his studies was German studies. I didn't know that, very interesting. So I
 I think he'll do very well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Rich, you're beaming over there. I really am. I mean, it's like a halo is around you. I don't know whether it's coming from Al or you. Yeah, I know. You know, I'm just so proud of the whole family. I've known Malcolm's family for a long time now, and just fantastic people. Malcolm started in our office, as you know. He was an intern. Then he moved his way up to council staff. Always has been fantastic.
 Very very very the guy you go to when you need something done and very professional and he has bigger things ahead of him in The future as well. We're gonna see a lot of stuff out of mr Earth in the future and I'm just happy today that he's taking this giant step forward leading our department as mr. Francik said Mr. Francik did leave out one great chief of staff. I
 Which one? Mr. Wyatt? Oh, Mr. Wyatt was a great Chief of Staff. He's going way back before Mr. Wyatt was even thought about. Well, I don't know if it's that far back, but he was in diapers back then. So we're going back to the typewriter days. He's talking about the 60s. I was born in 72.
 So that's just terrific. But congratulations to Malcolm. Congratulations. I know your mom's proud of you. We're proud of you. And I think you're going to do a fantastic job here on the council. And I want to thank all the other staff members, too, that really work well together and do a great job for the residents of the city of Buffalo. So congratulations.
 Well, we'll move on to the next item, but one of the telltale signs, and I won't say which one of the staff members came to leadership and said, asked before today, they didn't know, he didn't know whether he was going to get the appointment, they didn't. They asked would it be possible to prepare his office for him before he came back off of military leave. That said the rest. Good job. Now, go over there and do it right. We just gave him all that information.
 All right, next item. Item 74, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 196, Fortune Telling. Motion is sent to legislation, items 74 through 78. Second by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor. Mr. President, could we revisit briefly item 69, please? Yes. We're going to revisit item 69. Which one? 69. Motion is to revisit.
 item 692nd by council member fear letter it's before us thank you mr president i just wanted to thank my colleagues uh this is one of the things that we've been trying to do in the north district is accentuate our historical uh nature of the community uh there's certain parts of old historical black rock that we now refer to as historical black rock and one of the things uh one of many things that happened in the north district this is
 more the Riverside section, however, was that Nikola Tesla had a building in which he was inventing all sorts of items that he used in his competition with Thomas Edison. And
 The one building is on Niagara Street near Ontario, which is in the Riverside section. But there's a section of Niagara Street that goes all the way down into Councilmember Rivera's district. On Niagara Street, I believe it's near Fargo, where there's a second building that was owned by Tesla.
 And what this resolution does is it calls for designating that area as a corridor as the Tesla Trail, Nikola Tesla Trail. And what we're hoping is in Black Rock Riverside is to bring people into the neighborhood, not just people that used to live there, but people that are interested in history to find out about all the many things that happened.
 and in the city of Buffalo. And I think that's one thing that we've really missed the mark on in Buffalo is that in the past we never celebrated our past the way that we should. But I think that we're doing that now much better than we had, and we're hoping that in North, especially in the Black Rock section, historical Black Rock section, that we'll be able to lead to the forefront
 front in that. So I want to thank my colleagues for this. And when you see the Nikola Tesla trail signs going up on Niagara Street, you'll know that he was a Serb born in Croatia who competed with Thomas L. Madison. It's quite a fascinating story. As a matter of fact, if there's anybody that watches the Murdoch Mysteries, funny little, cute little Canadian show, the...
 One inspector detective by the name of Murdoch actually meets Nikola Tesla, I believe, during one of the episodes. Thomas Alva Edison as well, and there's a murder mystery that goes on around it. And they're constantly mentioning Buffalo because, remember, back then, Buffalo was to Toronto what Toronto is to Buffalo today. And hopefully we'll get back to that. So once again, thank you to my colleagues. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you. Motion stands. And before we go to the next item, the items 74 and these others, just so the public understands, are laws that are on the books right now that I'm proposing that either need to be adjusted or removed because we just don't have certain industries anymore like fortune-telling.
 There's actually, if you're going to be a fortune teller in Buffalo, you have to get a permit. I haven't met a fortune teller. Some of them are called prophets now, but some of these prophets are fortune tellers, but they don't have to get a license. I don't want them to go to jail. And Sunday activities and bootlegs, Sundays by law right now, you are not supposed to have an activity in the city of Buffalo. I think it's before 2 p.m. You can't have a parade.
 You're not supposed to have a ball game. No movie theaters are to be open. And it's still on the books. So if somebody, I guess, if they wanted to enforce it, I guess...
 they could legally wouldn't get elected huh you wouldn't get elected well he wouldn't get elected but if there was a law enforcement person he could actually by law right now or a licensed person come and shut you down and boot blacks that we I don't think we license them anymore you want to
 I don't even know if anybody boot blacks anymore. You can barely find a shoeshine guy. But boot blacks, this is what they did, and it's still on our books. And glue, you're not, I think under age 18, you're not supposed to be able to go in and buy any glue. Like, you can't, or glue is not supposed to be out by our own law.
 on a shelf. I think it's supposed to be controlled right now by the law so the little kids' school that doesn't have any harmful effect would have been continued to be in this. So we're trying to do a conscious effort to go through because part of our job is not only to make law but also to adjust law and get some of these laws off the books. So any fortune tellers out there, you'll just be able to tell the fortune. Just tell the fortune.
 So that's what that's about. And it will be, if anybody has any concerns on it, they can look on the web, see it, and then speak to it at the legislation meeting along with the changes in the park smoking policy. All right. Next item. 179, trailblazing sign in honor of Lamont Edward Yancey, Jr.
 Which number was it? 79. 79. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 80, appoint Assistant Legislative Aids to. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. Item 81, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 175, Fees. Motion to send the legislation items 81 and 82. Second by President Procter.
 Item 83, fee waiver for Family Fishing Day. Motion to approve items 83 through 86. Second by Councilman Franza. Item 87, letter from PBA regarding equipment and contracts. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by President Prokta. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to speak on the matter of police oversight. For the record, we had scheduled...
 two police oversight meetings, one in January and one in July. And I told folks that we would have one in July. We have had a difficult time scheduling a meeting for July due to the Buffalo Police Department administrative staff. For some reason, they can't do July, so it appears we won't have one until September. But I did tell the public on
 council meetings that we would have one in July. And I want to just, for the record, say certainly that I would have liked to have in July to discuss many of the things that we need to follow up on. But we will be having one in September. So I apologize for making...
 the announcement that we were going to have one in July and not having one. Do they have to bring the entire command staff? Mr. Chairman, no, but sometimes they depend on their expertise. If you're going to ask questions regarding certain things, whether it's sex offender, they'll bring somebody from the sex offense unit. If it's training, they'll bring Deputy Commissioner Beattie. If it's district-wide, the district-wide chiefs are here. So I think they bring them in case the council has any questions for them.
 But I would have liked to have had the Commissioner present. There are things that we discuss, items that
 we need to follow up on, and I take it very seriously. And I'm not happy the fact that we're not having a meeting, and I want the Buffalo Police Department to know that, especially when they commit to us that they would do it. But on the record, I just want to go on the record and say that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item, item 88, request for park status for Buffalo's first reading park. Motion to send to legislation.
 Second by President Proctor. Item 89, waive event fees for ECA outrace for homeless female veterans. Motion to approve. Second by President Proctor. Item 90, appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 91, CAO Better Buffalo. Motion to approve items 91 through 97. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 98, red light cameras.
 Motion to adopt and sent to BPD. Second by Councilmember Wyeth, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I put this motion through because, as many of you know, some months ago we put through a resolution regarding traffic and the problems that we're having in our districts with people speeding, going through red lights, and just causing sorts of mayhem on our streets. In the recent hit-and-run on East Ferry,
 It's something that I just felt that we have to do something. And red light cameras may not be the end all, but it certainly will help curb people's behaviors. I think because we didn't have a great deal of traffic enforcement, people have gotten lax and they put people's lives at risk. The two individuals who were killed by hit and run drivers, Ms. Ramona Sanders who leaves children.
 The police haven't been able to identify the individual who did it. And Mr. Arthur Reddick on Bailey, these are two individuals who were just walking across the street. And we had these individuals who hit them and left the scene to leave their families grieving. And the Buffalo Police Department trying to figure out what happened.
 The cameras that we have currently don't seem to give us the detail that we need to apprehend the individuals. But the red light cameras, when you go through the red light, will get your picture and it will get your license plate. These individuals who have committed these crimes probably sped through another red light and could have caused another death or injury. So I think it's important for us to really settle down and research this to find out if this is something that's feasible.
 But I think most importantly, can we create a safer environment for pedestrians? I think that when we had this, the meeting several months ago, we had a great deal of community outpouring and concern about our traffic in the city of Buffalo. So this is something I'm putting forth that if we can do a study, we can pilot it, we can do whatever, but I really want to get this off the ground because we are, and the city of Buffalo is very dangerous as far as motor vehicles.
 and people driving. We have to, as elected officials, our responsibility to protect the public safety. I think this is a dangerous time. Unfortunately, the Buffalo Police Department cannot have a traffic detail on every corner, but certainly these red light cameras could assist them in creating a better environment and hopefully curb dangerous behavior that's already killed two people and a little boy who was hit. Although, you know, on a side street it may not help
 But again, those cameras, when these individuals speed away, they may have the propensity to go through a red light and we may be able to capture them. We have to capture these individuals. We have to create a safer environment in our community. And so this is my proposal, and I hope that we can get the support of the police department and our body, elected body, to make sure that, again, we protect the public safety. And this is calling for a study, right, Coach? Yes. Okay.
 Yeah, I think that's important if people understand you haven't made up, you're saying let's study it, let's see how this would work as far as for public safety. Thanks, sir. Mr. Fontana. Yeah.
 Thank you, Mr. Wyatt, for bringing up the public safety aspect of it. Mr. Froncheck, Mr. Wyatt, and myself all share Bailey Avenue, and it's not a through way. And I'm getting a little upset because, you know, the 30, the 198 was lowered to 30 miles per hour. That's enforced. You can't go above 40 without maybe getting a ticket over there. But every day, every single day, and you always talk about disparities. There's a disparity as the way police enforce the speed limit.
 On Bailey Avenue, you can go 50 miles per hour right now. Right now, right down from Kensington all the way down to Delavan, you can go 50 miles per hour, you're not going to get a ticket. The enforcement's not there, so next resolution I'm going to write with Mr. Y is going to be asking for more speed enforcement on Bailey Avenue. Because the average speed on Bailey Avenue, according to police, is 45 miles per hour. That's what the police officers will tell you.
 Yet we don't see the same enforcement as we do on the 198. And I think, to be honest with you, the 198 is a whole other ball of wax. It's, you know, you don't have people crossing and such. You might in the future, but right now you don't. On Bailey Avenue, you have a lot of people crossing over. On Genesee Street, there's a speeding problem. But Bailey Avenue is a known speedway, and it has to be calmed down. We talked about lowering the speed limit on side streets to 25 miles per hour just so people understand that you're on a side street part.
 The department doesn't want to do that because of the signage. But sometimes 30 miles per hour on side streets, especially with cars on the street, is too fast.
 Just because 30 is the speed limit doesn't mean you can't go 20 down a street. Rarely do I go 30 on a side street, rarely. It's normally 20 or 25 because there's cars. You don't know if a kid's going to guard out in front of you. On Bailey Avenue, average speed probably should be about 35 miles per hour. It's a little bit wider. But you'll see cars zipping at 45, 50 all day long. And Mr. Reddick, it was mentioned, his family is now grieving his loss. He had some vision problems. I understand that some store owners were telling me that he had some vision issues.
 And if you look at the video of him getting hit, it's just enough to make you slow down to begin with. But he actually heard the car more than he saw the car coming at him. And he attempted to then...
 Run away from the noise he was hearing but it actually brought him right into the path of that car And then the person ran off not mr. Reddick's fault of course the driver should have been using caution around a pedestrian in which he used absolutely no caution And then when the driver hit the pedestrian showed no remorse or no kind of compassion whatsoever, and then just drove off That's just absolutely unacceptable in today's society but it's this
 A culture of driving fast on Bailey has to stop and the only way to stop that culture is to have the enforcement on Bailey Avenue like other roads in the city of Buffalo. Absolutely. Councilmember Wingo and Rivera. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes. Thank you. I absolutely agree with my colleague, Councilmember Wyatt and Fontana regarding the speeding. I also share Bailey Avenue.
 And that's okay, but right at Bailey and Amherst, there's an intersection where there's a school across the street. And when I dropped my children off at the school, I would literally, my light would be green for about a second, and cars would still be coming to the intersection. And as it relates to the disparity in how certain areas of the city is policed, that is reality in the city of Buffalo.
 Unfortunately, we're not having the police oversight committee, but I believe all of this ties in together. The red light resolution along with the speeding down Bailey, even the speeding on the side streets.
 All of this plays into how there is a disparity in how certain sections of the city of Buffalo is policed. It could be strategic. It may not be strategic. But I think the community and I think the public has a right to know. I really believe that we ought to have more police presence in certain areas of the city, but maybe we don't have the manpower. Whatever the situation is, I believe that the community has a right to know.
 especially speeding down side streets, I can hear cars from my backyard at the corner rev up to hit about 50-60 miles an hour down my short street. That's absolutely ridiculous and they do it because they know there is no police over there that's going to enforce it. Now, again, like Councilmember Fontana had alluded to earlier regarding the 198, no one crosses the 198.
 When we reduced, well not we, but when the speed limit was reduced on the 198, we had so many hundreds of tickets were written, just so that the city can get the message that the speed limit has been reduced. But yet, people get hit over on Ferry, people get hit on Bailey, and nothing, nothing happens. We have Pembroke where people coming off the 33 speeding.
 We have cause, we have concerns, nothing. So I believe that we do need to bring this. This is a very, very serious issue. It does need to come to the forefront. We do need to support Councilman Wyatt's resolution to try to make sure that whatever they come up with, as far as this feasibility study is concerned, we need to ensure that this thing has some teeth and that it has legs so they can walk as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Mr. Mayor? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know how many years ago, it's probably more than five years ago, the administration had proposed doing red light cameras in the city, and there was a vigorous debate, one left by South District Council Member Mickey Kearns, and I think everybody remembered Dave Franzik, and we looked at the red light cameras, and we did some research on the red light camera. It does generate money if you go through the red light,
 You get a ticket in the mail and it, the ticket goes to whoever the vehicle is registered to, not who the driver was. So if you loan your vehicle to your daughter or your son, you would get the ticket.
 the parent would get the ticket from the red light. The other thing that it showed that it didn't really stop accidents from happening, what happened was it actually taped the accidents. So we had T-bones in the corner, so they would show videos after videos, and the people that were showing this to us
 What it showed was accidents were happening, continuing to happen. The only difference was they would videotape the accidents happening. The other thing that happened was people conditioned to going off to Side Street if they knew the cameras were on Bailey.
 And they said, well, if the cameras are on Bailey, the red light cameras are on Bailey, let's go off the side street. And they go speeding down the side street through the stop signs, through the intersections. So there was a debate back and forth. Eventually the administration withdrew the proposal to have a company come in and set up. They also looked at other states and municipalities that started the red light camera, and some actually gave them away.
 they stopped using them. So I think we really need to study this whole red light camera and the effect that it has. It does show the accidents. It does show the fatalities happening. We do see a
 cars being T-boned and people being, unfortunately, dying. But we also gained from that that we needed to synchronize our lights. We needed more, you know, conditioning on those thoroughfares that people would drive down Bailey like if it was the 190 at Niagara Street as though it was the 190. So I think a lot of it has to do with conditioning. And as you mentioned, the 198,
 They slowed down. Why? Because they were conditioned. They started to issue tickets after tickets after tickets, and after a short while, it starts to hit the pocketbook, and people say, hey, I better slow down. So that's something that we can look at, but we certainly need more enforcement, more conditioning by the Buffalo Police Department, not just to record the incident, but actually do something about it.
 because a lot of these cameras record it and then sometimes you have the luxury of being able to go back and look at the tapes and yeah, you can determine liability. Yeah, you went through the stop sign and you didn't stop and who was at fault for the accident. But in terms of actually preventing the accident, we don't know how effective that was. I think no matter what you come up with, you dag if you do, you dag if you don't. They've been putting all these bump-outs around.
 On streets, to make the streets smaller, more narrow, slow down the traffic. Well, now you've got traffic backed up. So you have people complaining and saying, and I'm not a fan of the bump outs because you can't see around them when you're turning a corner. I'm not a fan at all. But at least it is a move. Of course, in the city of Buffalo, you can't put speed bumps. I was just in Toronto yesterday. They have speed bumps on the side streets. We're not allowed to do that. If you...
 If you put a red light camera, then that's why I wanted to be very clear that you're asking for a study because people will already line up and say, the council wants to put in red light cameras and you're asking let's look at them. When those go in, there are going to be people saying, this isn't good because I keep getting a ticket.
 But something has to be done. And I think that's what we're elected to do. You've got to make decisions and realize that some people will not like it. But at the end of the day, what is best for the city, for the people, for the safety? That's our job. Keep order. And so it's a tough one. It's tough. But we're not being silent about it. That's what's most important. All right. Thank you. Next item.
 Item 99, Commission for Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt Item 99 and 100. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Announcements of Committee Meetings. Regular Committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, July 18th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, July 18th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, July 18th, 2 p.m. Council Members, any announcements?
 Council Member Fontana, we've spoken before. Council Member Scanlon has rightfully brought up the issue many times about Solar City. And today they're going to be at the Seneca-Babcock Community Center. I think it's, what, 1184 Seneca Street? 1168 Seneca Street to 1184. And they'll be there today at 5.30 p.m. So if anybody's looking for a job...
 Drive right over, drive through Larkinville, drive through Lovejoy, drive through South Buffalo. We'll get to the Seneca Babcock Center today at 530. Solar City will be there accepting job applications for residents. And I want to thank Mr. Franczak and Mr. Robinson for bringing that to my attention.
 Great. Council President Pro Temp Scanlon. And just to follow up to Council Member Fontana's point, there will also be a session in August in South Buffalo. We don't have the final details, but just in case people can't make it tonight, there will be another one coming up in August in South Buffalo. Okay. And that was the other day that I did not see that. I look forward to that date and time. It'll be coming. Or the next week. Okay. He pushed hard for that. That's a good thing.
 Majority Leader? Mr. Chairman, there will be a public meeting for phase three and four of the Niagara Gateway project. That goes from Niagara at Porter all the way to Tonawanda, Black Rock, Riverside. That will be Thursday the 13th between 6 and 8 p.m. at Deauville College. All right. Any other announcements?
 Councilmember Wyatt. I want to invite the University District residents to our quarterly community breakfast. It's going to be taking place this Saturday, July 15th at St. Lawrence Church.
 from 9 a.m. to 12. You need to RSVP our office at 851-5165. This is your opportunity to be heard, to hear what's going on in your community. You know, we try to make sure that we address the needs of the community. This is your opportunity, so hopefully they'll attend. And I also want to invite the residents to the Capen Garden Walk. This is an annual event that takes place right in the district where you can see the beautiful flowers and university.
 There's shuttles and things that take place. And if you go on to the two libraries website or the University Heights Collaborative website, they give you all the details regarding what takes place this Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. All right. Anybody else? All right. All right. We took care of all of our business.
 Second by councilman for a little we adjourn