One. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Present. Council president Pridgen. I key. Majority leader Rivera. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Council member Wyatt. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge. Next speaker is the United States.
 and serve the Father for which he stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Matthew 5, 14, 15, 16 reads, You are the light of the world.
 like a city on a hilltop that can't be hidden no one lights a lamp and then puts it under a basket instead a lamp is placed on a stand where it gives light to everyone in the house in the same way let your good deeds shine out for all the seas so that everyone will praise your heavenly father. Memoriams are such a key part of our council sessions today I'll do something I normally don't and I'll go first
 I remember well Pastor William Gillison Jr. in these chambers on multiple times, multiple opportunities, including the swearing in of council president. But on July 4th, and we could go yesterday, Freedom Day for our nation, a patriarch of our city, Pastor Gillison, stepped into his eternal reward.
 He became the pastor of Montelobaptist in June of 1981, and his $3 million sanctuary that he built new was paid off in just six years. For the last 20 years, I've been privileged to count him as a mentor, a confidant, and a friend. And I know there are many on this council and here in City Hall that hold him in such great esteem. What a loss.
 The Buffalo News quoted pastor as saying, we're a city that's unified and going far beyond the expectations of many other cities. Those cities will look upon us for solutions that we'll bring out. He saw Buffalo as a city on a hill. Pastor Gillison saw Buffalo not every day as it was, but as God intended it to be. And he kept moving us forward toward that goal.
 I made the mistake of sort of looking up his achievements, his accomplishments, the offices he held, the influence he exerted. We don't have time for you to hear all of that because he was everywhere doing a host of things. But past president of the Baptist Ministers Conference, moderator of the Great Lakes Baptist Association, concerned clergy of Western New York Urban Think Tank, Better Together. He was on television and radio. Thank you.
 Pastor leaves a legacy that will outlive him for generations to come. This city, Buffalo, is better today because he accepted the call of God and Mount Olive Baptist to come and serve Buffalo, New York. I already miss his laugh and his leadership. I often leaned into his wisdom. As a pastor, his role was far greater than the great local church leadership.
 that he serves, he was a patriarch and spiritual father and leaves a huge leadership void. Fortunately, he was wise and trained up his son, Reverend Dwayne Gillison, to take the baton and run the next leg of the race. As we do with all the memoriams, we have a moment at the end. But I want you to remember First Lady, his two sons, two daughters, his grandchildren, great-grandchildren, the congregation of Mount Alo Baptist,
 dozens and dozens of spiritual sons and daughters all over our region and beyond. Would you bow in prayer with me? Father, I thank you so much for the life and legacy of Pastor Gillison. Lord, you know that there's a hole in my heart today at the loss of a friend, and I know that there are others in this chambers and on this council that feel the exact same way. Lord, he leaves behind
 not just seed planted, but harvest that's going to come for decades in the future. Lord, I thank you that he called us to be a better city than we've been. I pray that you continue to activate those prayers on our behalf as a city on a hill showing the way for others. Thank you, Lord, for the blessing on his family, his church, and all those that he impacted and influenced for you, O God.
 and for a better Buffalo. We thank you for all this in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmember's memorials. Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and our prayers the soul of and the family of Theodore Dion of West Seneca, who at just 27 years of age was tragically and fatally struck by a vehicle. Sure.
 You can finish your memorial of the person who is deceased. We're honoring people who have lost their lives. Go ahead, Councilmember Scanlon. Ask that we please keep in our thoughts and our prayers to the family of Theodore. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Councilmember Golombak.
 Thank you, Mr. President, the Riverside community lost a very very active member, Dennis shield he had been very very active in the community at all saints church at Little League football at the Boy Scouts of America, on behalf of his wife, his children, and his numerous as they used to refer to them as other children the kids that played football for him and the kids that went through the Boy Scouts with him.
 Dennis will be very, very sorely missed. Also, Millie Hillman, the mother of Sheila Jaskula, mother-in-law of Mark Jaskula, she passed away this past weekend as well, and she will be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We've already heard the sentiment shared by our chaplain regarding the life and the legacy of Dr. William Gillison,
 He was a stalwart in our community and he was a pastor's pastor. He led the city through some very tumultuous times as a faith-based community leader. He also took on the mantle of being a chodo, which is to ensure that there are affordable quality housing.
 opportunities available for the people in the city of Buffalo, particularly those in Maston District as he has finished several developments and will just awarded another grant from the state to ensure the development of a senior housing structure on the church's campus.
 The city of Buffalo will experience a great void, but we are thankful that he poured into younger ministers, such as his son, Dwayne Gillison, who stands at the ready to continue in that great legacy of leadership, not just leadership, but visionary leadership. So we pray for his wife, Toni, and all of his children as they grieve over the loss, this great loss to the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Hearing another, also the same sentiments of Dr. Gillison, who's a dear friend all the way through, who loved this community, who built his church from nothing, almost very little, to one of the biggest congregations to not only do church, but community development.
 had the privilege of being with him a few weeks before he passed, and really will always honor and cherish that moment. And also Dr. Daniels.
 who we lost in a house fire, one of my grandchildren's doctors and so many other people who he cared for in a tragic fire. And so for those, and of course, we always remember those who have given their life for our country and for the freedom of others since our last meeting together, we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence.
 Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 28, 2022 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you?
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. And just so that the public will know, we are going to take two items out of order because I wanna make sure that at the top of the agenda, we are taking care of first of all,
 the reapportionment question that we're going to have our corporation council opine on and then also we have possibly a swearing in for a new member of the cabinet. So I wanted to be respectful that so many have come. And I will say that we did pause this process on purpose. And I'm not ashamed to say that to say that when people are
 ask questions and we had a public hearing. I wanted corporation council and others to advise us of what we could do, what we couldn't do and to make that public. So until we got that opinion, we have waited for that opinion and that's a part, part of this process. And so we will take care of that right at the top of that, of this meeting.
 Mr. Chairman motion to take item eight out of order and item one out of CD out of order. All right. At a civil service civil service. All right second by Councilmember Brian Bowman. Item number eight amendment to item 22. All right.
 from the top. So we have the item before us and we know that there has been a question and there have been maps and submitted since the public hearing. I've asked the Corporation Council to even look
 at and folks in order for us to get through this and I want to keep everybody in the chambers, and I want to respect everyone I want us to respect each other. And so I would ask that we would be able to move forward. I want us to be heard. That's all. So council. Thank you.
 What's the meaning of this? The map is limited to us. We will now go to Corporation Council who will opine on whether this council can accept another map. Assistant Corporation comes to Karen Gordon. Now, in accordance to the City of Buffalo Charter, Article 18, Section 18-10, and in accordance to the New York State Constitution, Article 3, Section 5B,
 every 10 years. Once the census has been called and new numbers has been added to the population, an independent commission is expected to be granted or commissioned, or formed. The City of Buffalo did commission its independent commission to consider the new data that was received from the census of 2020.
 Having commissioned that reapportionment commission or advisory committee on reapportionment for the city of Buffalo, that committee considered several possibility as it relates to the amendment of the district lines. The city charter article 18 section 18 dash four stated that the council shall consider recommendations of the citizens advisory commission on reapportionment.
 and guided by that criteria set forth in Section 18-16, adopt such final plans and lines. However, any changes made by the council or changes made in consideration by that commission, whether based on inputs from the public, could not violate the Home Rule Laws Article 3, Section 23 of the local law subject to mandatory referendum which basically stated that
 except otherwise provided by under or under authority of a state statute, a local law shall be subject to mandatory referendum. If in the case of a city, town, or village changes the membership or composition of the legislative body by increases or decreases the number of votes, which any member is entitled to. In other words,
 for legislative individuals who were appointed, not appointed, sorry, who was placed in control based on an election, their positions and districts could not be removed without a referendum. While the commission,
 as I said, was created and held approximately four meetings starting from May 20th, sorry, from April 20th of 2022, and opened all the meetings to the public for recommendations and considerations. They were all live streamed meetings through Zoom and available to the public.
 I believe its final meeting that was on May 18th, one individual from the public showed up and made comments. After that meeting, after that meeting, the maps was then finally submitted to the Common Council by the Commission on reapportionment. The Common Council laid the new maps on the agenda for scrutiny by the public.
 Since then, I believe these maps have been tabled approximately at least twice so that the Common Council can hear from the public what their concerns are. I believe at this point...
 I'm just asking you respectfully to let her finish her statement so that people are able to hear it. I'm asking you to let her finish the statement because there are legal parameters that she's trying to explain. We listened. We paused. We went back. Now, I'm going to run the meeting. We listened. We paused. We went through.
 And all I'm asking, we were asked to go back and to look at something. And we did. But we can't even get through the answer. I just want to let her get through the answer.
 We did not move the, we moved the boat twice so that we could get the proper information. And some things are legal. It is what we can and cannot do. It's just simple as that. So, all right, we're going to finish. We're going to finish. At this point, the commission has been decommissioned. They have completed their job and their tasks.
 without the established vehicle, which is the commission to accept new additional maps or plan. At this point, the most the common council can do is accept comments and consideration, but no new maps would be accepted because the vehicle for such has since expired. Thank you. Now I want to.
 So I want to say that, I want to say thank Corporation Council for doing the research. But at this point, it is, and I want to thank the community. I want to thank the community for being here and reaching out. But it is, I'm smiling because I am doing my job of asking people.
 All right, so this item will be motion is to take motion is to table second by councilmember Noah Kowski. The next item. All right, next item, we have to Mr. Chairman, to go.
 So you want to resend? Motion is to send to legislation. Send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Noah Cosby. All right. All right. We do have a next item that is before us, and we know you have your family here and workers here, so we want to go to the next item.
 Civil Service item number one appoint Commissioner of administration finance policy and urban affairs. This item is open. All right, this item is open and it is yeah.
 All right. And I apologize that we had to pause, but this is the people's business. And we are so glad to have with us to be able to do this next portion of our agenda. Are we ready? Yes, before you. All right. Motion. And if we can get the doors closed and in that way, we'll be able to do the,
 That's roll call, maybe. Pardon me? Did you want to do roll call on this? Yes, we'd like to do roll call. So you want to do move? The motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I really appreciate the opportunity to speak on behalf of my experiences that I've had with this individual who will be appointed today as the commissioner.
 I've known Delano Dowell for seven years and all seven years that I've known this gentleman he has been just that a gentleman he has been professional and he certainly is proficient in his area of expertise now when I speak about Mr. Dowell he has been the person who I was able to call
 in the comptroller's office to ensure that I understood things that I may not have understood before. And his ability to explain these things in layman's terms is incredible. And I think that that has always served him well. He has attended just about every single Mastin District Stakeholder's Breakfast, and I apologize to his wife,
 We're getting him up and out early on Saturday mornings, the second Saturday. Yes, yes, shameless plug. Second Saturday of every month to come to the stakeholders meetings to explain to the constituency and Mastin District what certain things mean as it relates to the budget, as it relates to our discretionary funding, and as it relates to the dues and the role of the comptroller's office. Now we know that he's going back to the other side.
 And I believe that this gives him a very, very unique perspective as he begins his journey as the commissioner of the Department of Finance and Administration. I have nothing but the utmost respect for Mr. Dow. His children should be proud. I know his wife is proud.
 And I am not ashamed to say that the folks who say behind every great man is a great woman, I will say I'm sorry. Let me amend that statement to say next to every great man is a great woman. And I'm glad to see his family here today, his wife and his children. They all should be very proud, which I know they are.
 of Mr. Dow and I for one am very happy to see Mr. Dow be an African American man, showing the rest of these African American boys, what we can achieve from where he's from I don't want to give his whole life story, but I know that he did not come from me.
 as most people would assume, just because he can talk the talk, walk the walk. You know, he dressed almost dressed as well as I do. But, you know, he does not come from a place of means. He provided for himself. He's strong.
 pulled himself up by his own bootstraps, made sure he was educated in the field that he chose that he could be successful in, and that's what he is today, a shining, bright light. And young Dowell right here should be very proud of his dad, because his father is setting a mean example, and I mean that. His father is setting a great example for every young Black boy out here who's looking to aspire to do great things. And now, when the budget comes out, it
 It will have the mayor's name, the deputy mayor's name, and then it will say Delano Dow, because he's responsible for that four or five hundred page document at this point. And I know that he understands the weight that is on him based off conversations I've had. I did not need to interview Mr. Dow because I had like I said, we've had a relationship for seven years.
 but he is not taking this appointment lightly. He understands the gravity of the position, and I believe he will respect the people of the city of Buffalo as he acts out his duties. So therefore, Mr. Chair, I will be voting in the absolute affirmative for this candidate. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So for my short tenure on the council, Mr. Dowell and I have gone back and forth when it comes to audits or sales tax, revenue, budgets,
 fund balance policies, charter revisions, you name it. And he does say one thing that is true. Numbers don't lie, they tell a story. So it's important that when we go through these budgets, we understand what that means for the city of Buffalo. And even though we might see, you know, things a little bit differently, I know our end result is to ultimately be great fiduciaries for the city of Buffalo. And I welcome his appointment. Council Member Scanlon, President- Thank you, Council President.
 My colleagues have hit really hit the nail on the head, but I just wanted to comment that during the past 10 years, whether the commissioner to be and I have engaged during his previous capacity and image in the Department of Administration and Finance or, or his role in the controller's office. He has always responded timely.
 with a wealth of information and during all interactions between the two of us and with the council i've always felt he's conducted himself professionally with class integrity and i can't wait to continue to work with him in his new role as commissioner of administration and finance so um i will also be voting in the affirmative and we will councilmember columbus
 Thank you, Mr. President. I too will be voting yes. I didn't realize it's been seven years that I've known Delano.
 Well, I think because of COVID, everything's so screwed up. But, you know, he's always been a pleasure to work with. I always appreciated the professionalists, the courteousness. And as my colleague said, whenever I had a question, if I called him, he would give me, you know, a very, very fair response to the best of his ability. And I'm very, very happy and I will be very proud to vote for him. Thank you.
 majority leader thank you very much mr chair um mr delano worked for the administration previously and then went to the controller's office and now back in the administration he has always distinguished himself and one thing that i learned from him is that he would give you a snapshot as where we are right now today in the moment and where we'll be
 down the road. And that's one of the things that we needed as council members, not just to know where we are today, but to know where we're going, where we're heading in terms of the city's finances. And I think he has the ability and the vision to see that. I know that he will compliment the work that was done in administration and finance previously. I commend him and his family. It's a great day for your family. I look forward to working with you through the finance committee that I have the opportunity to work with.
 the honor of working with along with our finance chair, many of the things, the changes that have been implemented,
 in some way or form has his finger, whether it's a fund balance policy, the things that we've done, he's worked with this common council and the finance committee, and he's lended us his expertise on many things. So thank you for your service, not only the Comptroller's office, but your service now as the new commissioner of administration and finance.
 Council Member for your letter. You just want to echo the sentiments of my colleagues, we've had the pleasure of working together for seven years, and it's always been a pleasure. He's always been very knowledgeable and share that knowledge with me anytime I had a question, and I certainly look forward to working with him in the future.
 Thanks. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I'm looking forward to voting for Delano here today. I think throughout the finance committee, I've seen him give clear, concise information to us, and that's what we'll need moving forward.
 as our finances progress through ARP and through the city of Buffalo. So I'm definitely looking forward to working with Delano. And he brings a multitude of experience from the private sector, from the administration, and also from the comptroller's office. So great job, Delano. Thank you. And finally, before we go to the roll call vote, which is obvious of how that's going to come out, I think one of the best conversations we had was in an owl at Target.
 which we talked about your honesty and how much I appreciated that. The numbers are the numbers. Sometimes they look good. Sometimes they look challenging.
 But you have shown over these years that regardless of who you reported to, you reported the numbers accurately. And for that, I'm grateful. And so I'm grateful for that conversation in which you said that's how you always would be referred to your family and wanting to make them proud.
 And you definitely have, sir. You definitely have. If there's no other comments, roll call. Council Member Bowman. Dowell. Council Member Farrelletto. Dowell. Council Member Golombek. Dowell. Council Member Nowakowski. Delano Dowell. Council President Pridgen. Delano Dowell. Majority Leader Rivera. Delano Dowell. President Pro Tem Scalin. Delano Dowell. Council Member Wingo. Mr. Delano Dowell.
 It is unanimous. Congratulations. Repeating, I, Delano Dow, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution,
 of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Commissioner of Administration, Finance Policy, and Urban Affairs of the City of Buffalo according to best of my ability. Congratulations, Commissioner.
 I do like to talk a lot. First and foremost, I want to thank the Lord for putting me in this position.
 I want to thank the administration. I want to thank my mayor. I want to thank the deputy mayors. I want to thank everyone that's here. This council members, you guys really did push me to come prepare when I come down here. I want to thank Wyatt. He's not here, he's on vacation or whatever, but I want to thank him also because you guys really did push me and drive me to do better and be better. Honest to God, I want to thank Commissioner Eschich. I don't know if she's still here, but I really appreciate and respect everything she's done.
 I want to thank Ray, getting ready for Ray to come on. I don't want to miss nobody, but the commissioners that's here. I see Otis Barker, Kevin Kaufman, Greg,
 My man Mike Fitt over there. I don't know where Brendan Mahaffey, he was here earlier too. I want to thank Gigi and all her squad, Antoinette, Tracy Cooley, thank you for actually getting me in this position. Without you, I wouldn't even, I had a conversation with you on TOPS to even apply for the position to work for the mayor and after five, six, seven, Otis, my apologies, Otis Barker, thank you for just being there and talking to me.
 And somebody I could be comfortable talking to, Councilmember Pritchett, Wingo, all the councilmembers. I appreciate everyone. I want to thank my family for putting up with me and doing what I do. And also, I want to thank Barbara Middleway. She's tough, but she's fair. And I want to thank her for what she's done to help me get to where I'm at.
 And I know this is just the beginning. And I lucked up, I mean, with the Lord's blessing, to be able to move so fast, so quick within this building. But I think just carrying myself the right way got me to where I'm at right now. And if I cry, sun hit me. But I'm just happy. I'm just happy. And this is crazy. I grew up in the town, guys. Downtown. Look where I'm sitting right now.
 Councilmember Pridgen? I'm calling on Pridgen. I can't. You are. All right, Pridgen. We talked when I ran Little League Football. And he believed in me back then, even before I ever came to this building. And it's just amazing. I try to set an example for my kids and people I'm around and just to be here. And it's just amazing. Anybody can do anything that they want to do if they choose to do it. I know we go through this black-white stuff.
 My family know I'm not about that. It's about what you know what you're supposed to do as a person. I understand the conditions and you'll have fair shape, but if you want to do something, you want to accomplish something, you have to do it on your own. I mean, you learn from others, you treat people right, and you respect others. So I know we have a kumbaya right now. I understand once I go to two, it's all hands on deck. I know I got a lot on my plate, but...
 I'm really willing and able that nothing will change. I will always be open and commit myself to the city that I really love. Thank you, everyone. No, I'm sorry. We're not signing up. I'm sorry. You're right there. Right here. Thank you. The family. Thank you.
 All righty.
 I think we're going from the top now. From the top. Item number one, may your out-of-town travel. Motion to receive and file items one and two. Second by Councilmember Noah Coaster. Item number three, amendment to 2020-21 annual action plan at prior year annual. Motion to send finance items three and four. Second by Councilmember Farrell. Item number five, appoint senior planner. Motion to send to civil service items five.
 Through seven. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number nine, notification serial. Motion to receive and file with the conditions that we waive the 45 days. Second by Councilmember Columbo. Item number 10, approval for subrecipient agreement to administer ARP user fee assistance. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 11, change order for Donato Associates.
 These are late files. If there's no objection, motion to approve items 11 through 25. Council Member, item number 11 through 14, I believe those with the annual action plan, so you can send them to finance to give you more time. Motion is to send to finance. Okay.
 All right. We'll just pause two seconds to let everybody out so we can hear. There we go. All right. So what was the motion?
 Motion was to send to finance. All right. Motion to send to finance and second by Council Member Ferland. Item number 15, change order engine for temporary structure. Motion to approve items 15 through 25. Second by Council Member Golombet. I got 21 as receiving file. 21 is the receiving file. Motion is to approve items 15 through 20. Second by Council Member Golombet.
 Rescind the motion for 21. Rescind the motions for 21. Second by Council Member Bowman. Motion is now to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Ready leader, I believe 21 is supposed to be approval on those. We were asked, was marked as receive and file. Why? I don't know. It should have been approved from the very beginning. We had it right. Why don't we hold item number 21 in advance and then bring you back a decision.
 Item number 22, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement, pad improvements. Motion to approve items 22 through 25. Second by Council Member Peraletto.
 Item number 26, appoint fire lieutenant. Motion to send to civil service items 26 and 27. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 28, full-star license 1036 East Ferry. Motion to send legislation. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 29, full-star license 170 Hampshire. Motion to approve items 29 and 30. Second by Councilmember. Item number 31.
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 32, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 32 through 34. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 35, appoint senior legislative assistant for. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Miscellaneous. Item number 36, petition in support of alternate redistricting plan.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 37, proposed charter amendment for tax foreclosure procedures. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 38, Judges Row, Neighborhood and Block Club Petition Opposing Hope Wells Center. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, Written Public Comments on Reapportionment. Motion to receive and file items 39 and 40. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Petitions, item number 41, Zone and Map Amendment, 320 Jersey. Motion to send Legislation City Planning Board items 41 through 44. Second by Council Member Golombek. Second.
 Submission list, civil service. Item number two, appoint a clerk typist. Mr. Chair, motion is to approve items one through and including five. Second by the majority leader, Rivera. Item number six, appoint clerk typist. Motion is to receive and file item six through and including 21. Second by Council Member Wingo. Finance, item number 22, certificate of necessity, city hall improvements.
 Oh, can somebody call for finance? Motion is to receive and follow items 22, 23. Second by Council Member Rivera. Item number 24, follow-up fire department wireless device utilization. Motion to receive items 24 through 29. To approve. Approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Community development, item number 30, transfer 24 properties to Benley.
 Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Brian Bowman. Item number 31, petition to trailblazing sign to honor Crystal Bowling Burton. Motion to recommit. Committed. Second by Councilmember Noah Kofsky. Item number 32, concerns hazardous condition 114 and 115 Wecker. Motion to receive and file. Mr. Chair. Councilmember Bowman second. Who has the floor?
 Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to put it on record that the mayor's impact team did go and clear the debris and clean the property. And we had spoken with the residents on Wecker and they are satisfied with the results. Thank you. Great. Next slide.
 Item number 33, reported so, portion 58, Emerson. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number 34, Fuster, license 490, Connecticut. Motion to recommit. Seconded by the Majority Leader.
 Item number 35, petition in support of 501 High Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by the majority leader. Item number 36, special use 1472 hurdle for Tavern. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Second by President Pro Temp Scammer. Item number 38, special use permit 451 Elmwood. Motion to recommit. Second by the majority leader. Item number 39, response letter regarding 270 Laurel Street.
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, special use 501 High Street for neighborhood shop. Motion to approve. Approve with conditions, second by Council Member Nowakowski. Conditions submitted. Item number 41, special use 270 Laurel for assembly.
 Motion is to deny. Motion is to deny. Second by Council Member Bowman. Reasons for denial of this item pursuant to the standards found in the brain code. This application does not meet the criteria found in Section 11-3.3.E.3.
 This proposed use has already proven that it cannot be maintained and operated so to be harmonious with the surrounding area and not impeding the development and not impeded the development use and enjoyment of adjacent property in any foreseeable manner.
 Next item. Item number 42, ban on ONAC search warrants. Motion to receive and file 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 44, reapportionment plan.
 I believe the motion is to recommit 44th and 46th. Second by Council Member Golombic. Claims item number 47, Samantha Crump, 18,500. Motion is to approve items 47th and 63. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Resolution item number 45, column for traffic study for Dolt Street from Bailey to City Line.
 Second by Councilman. Motion to adopt the results. Remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 46, fee waiver. Motion. Go ahead. Fee waiver, Iron Island Chalk Fest. Motion to approve items 46 through 49. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 50, budget of personnel amendment for law. This is a late file. Please approve items 50, 51, 52 as approved.
 Motion to approve items 50, 51, and 52. Second by Councilmember Noah Kowski. Item number 53, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 53 through 55. Second by Councilmember Noah Kowski. Item number 56, waive fees for eight days of hope. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Noah Kowski. Item number 57, excuse Councilmember White from July 12th meeting. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Bolton.
 Item number 58 discharge item 22 dash 1027 72 from legislation committee. This is a late file, Mr. Chair, motion to adapt motion to adapt all three. Second by Councilmember Glumbert.
 Item number 62, fee waiver, headland by water, 61. 61. Motion to approve item 61 and 62. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Item number 63, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wynne. Item number 64, endorsement of Buttsy for CFA grant. This is a late file. There is a timetable by which they need to apply, so we need to move quickly to approve.
 Okay, so this- Or adopt, whichever it is. This is an endorsement of Bud C, oh, for a grant. Is that simply what it is for them to receive money? Okay. Proper motion. To approve. Approve. Okay.
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 65, Trailblazing Resolution for India Haunt Martin. Motion to approve item 65 through 67. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Mr. Chairman, motion to revisit item number 8 and item 21. I'm sorry, motion for 8 and 21? 8 and 21. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon.
 Item number eight, amendment to item 22-1072, local law intro number one. Just want to make sure we have the proper motion. The motion initially was to table, but it should be to send to legislation. That's correct. Did you do, the first one was to table? Right. So you want to rescind that motion? Resend the previous motion. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Fairlawn.
 Item number 21, permission to upset funds and enter into agreement for Oak Hill Park. Motion is to approve. So was it marked as received? There was some discrepancy on that motion. It was marked to receive and file, I believe. The proper motion was to approve. All right. Just a clean. All right.
 Okay, let's finish this one. Let's do 21 just to clean this up. Let's rescind just in case. Motion to rescind the previous motion to receive in file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. Now there's one other item. Yes. Item number 24, follow-up on fire department wireless device utilization.
 The motion was made to approve. It's just a communication. I believe it should just be received and filed. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion is now to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, July 19, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, July 19 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, July 19, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, July 19 at 2 p.m. Special Committees. Committee on Police Oversight is Wednesday, July 13 at 11 a.m.
 All right, council members, any announcements? Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. This weekend does mark the beginning of eight days of hope.
 beginning their work in the Fillmore District, helping out over a hundred families in my district. And the Crown Jewel who's gonna be getting the most help is a very devoted member of Council Member Wingo's Church who she adores. And she is on the second 100 block of Moselle Street between McKibbin and Genesee Street. And so a lot of people such as the elderly people that really need help quick.
 to stay in their homes and to live the lives that they want to. By being homeowners, we'll get a lot of help here in the city of Buffalo for over the next week, starting this weekend. So I just can't thank enough for the organization for directly uplifting my district. If not, Majority Leader, second by Council Member Golombe. Thank you, everybody.