Council District. We pray no one left behind, that the water as it rises will lift up every ship, every neighborhood, every zip code, every block of our precious district. Bless now those, your servants, as they deliberate today. Let your presence be obvious, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, chaplain. Councilmember, is there a memorial? Councilmember White? I'm praying for the Munson family. Tanika, who was a former clerk in the clerk's, former employee of the clerk's office, her mom and her dad and her stepmom were the ones who were killed in Atlanta. And it's just a tough time. So we pray for that family as well as the other families, Yvette. And just the senseless murders that have been happening in our community, we pray for all the families. We pray for our city. Thank you. CUNCILLEUR FONTANA. NEW YORK STATE TROOPER NICHOLAS CLARK, 29 YEARS OLD, SHOT, RESPONDING TO A CALL, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CALL, VERY, VERY TROUBLING CALL, MOST DANGEROUS CALLS OFFICERS HAVE TO ENDURE. THIS WAS A 29-YEAR-OLD STATE TROOPER, VERY TALENTED, VERY MUCH DEVOTED TO HIS STATE AND SHOT IN A SITUATION THAT STATE TROOPERS ARE CALLED INTO EVERY DAY. SO OUR THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS FOR HIS FAMILY. Thank you, Mr. President. Dorothy Kristic, the lovely wife of Charlie Kristic, passed away last week, jokingly referred to as the first lady of the Croatian club up in North Buffalo before we purchased it when it actually was a Croatian ethnic club. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends. Richard Snickles passed away, senior citizen extraordinaire. He was a volunteer van driver at Northwest Buffalo Community Center. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family. And he was sort of the embodiment of so many people that all of us have in our district. He volunteered. The old people, he was in his 80s, the old people needed a ride to Northwest Buffalo Community Center, so he volunteered to drive the van so that he could help out the old people. And you know I was shocked actually when he passed away because I never thought of him as being that old former All Saints teacher and Riverside resident Cora Wilkinson Passed away. She's going to be very very sorely missed by her family and her friends And last but certainly not least Glenn Volker from Black Rock as in Volker bowling lanes Black Rock tradition over in Elmwood and Amherst streets. Glenn is going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. I got to work with him on a couple of projects in the neighborhood. He was just a good guy. He was just a good, solid, salt-of-the-earth kind of a fellow, but I hope to remember them in our thoughts and prayers. Councilman Scandler. Thank you. I'd ask that we please keep in our thoughts longtime South Buffalo resident Collette Carey, who passed away, who's going to be greatly missed by her four children and dozen grandchildren, and also keep in our thoughts and prayers Mrs. Linda Donovan, who's the wife of former Police Commissioner Richard Donovan, who passed away last week, and she's going to be sorely missed by her sons, Timothy and Brian, daughter Colleen, and her grandchildren, who are the absolute love of her life. So I ask that we keep the two of them in our thoughts. I'm a former sheriff, and I believe I read Higgins also who passed. And Councilmember White mentioned the family of Yvette Johnson and baby Kyrie who were funeralized yesterday. My days are all mixed up, but who were funeralized on yesterday and then Carrie and Deborah Hubbard, who we will funeralize on Saturday, probably the fourth time in 24 years of pastoring, of having double funerals, and both of the others, all of the others were all homicides. And so we are praying much for those families, and of course all of the men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country since we have last met. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. There is a special presentation by University District Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt. You didn't want to come down? This is a special day and there's big things in a university. A couple of council meetings ago we had two young men who were acknowledged as equal scouts. Another great event, Food Market, which many of you know was a very small cart, expanded a big way, about four million dollars, excuse me, four million dollars on that corner. And they could have went anywhere. They could have found some space in the Elmwood Village, or wherever, but they chose to stay in the University District. And because of their investment and the state-of-the-art equipment in their school, it's not just a little mom and pop anymore, it's state-of-the-art. And they've hired 45 employees, so I want to thank them in this recognition for, to recognize Samir, Celine, and Abdullah Ahmed, Imperial Market, located at 32. BAILEY AVENUE IN BUFFALO, BUT THE MARKET EXPENSION WAS CREATED 45,000 BAILEY CUSTOM NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE UNIVERSITY ADDITION. THEY ARE NO STRANGERS TO THIS COMMUNITY, AND I APPRECIATE THEIR INVESTMENT AND WHAT THEY'VE DONE WITH THE COMMUNITY. I KNOW I'VE STRUGGLED BY THEM NUMEROUS TIMES, AND I SEE THE LOTS FILLED WITH ACTIVITY, SO I THANK THEM FOR THE ACTIVITY AND THEIR INVESTMENT IN THE COMMUNITY. MR. WHITE, THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME OVER HERE. JUST TO LET YOU GUYS KNOW I'VE BEEN IN THAT COMMUNITY SINCE 1992. I START AT THE STORE. MY DEAN IS TO PROVE OUR CITIZENSHIP AND FINALLY HAVE FRIENDS FOR TODAY. ALL RIGHT. YOU MUST HAVE A VERY NICE STORE. COUNCILMEMBER WIDE WILL GIVE YOU AN AWARD AND A FREE COMMERCIAL. We also have one other today. I think they were going to make it national holiday, the David Afranczak holiday because it's his birthday today. So happy birthday, Councilmember. 39 years old. All right. Mr. President, I wish Damone Smith was here because he used to be able to sing in Polish. Happy birthday. Oh, that is – he did do it one year. He did. Yes, he did. Yeah. Anybody in the Chamber know how to sing in Polish? All right. No? All right. Well, that's an acquired... That takes a lot of skill. Yeah. Thank you. We are going to take item out of order for a public hearing. Oh, I'm sorry. Nope, I got to get this in order. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on June 12th are approved. Are there any late files I report? Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the entire agenda. That is before it's not taken away your right to pause the meeting if you did not receive any of the late files. Do we have any late files? We don't have any last minute ones. Great. All right, I think we are rolling along. Mr. President, motion to take 88 out of order. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Item 89, public hearing, disposition of real property, 11 St. Paul. Motion to open the public hearing. Public hearing is now open. Is there anyone here to speak on item number 88, St. Paul? 89. Is it item? Was it 80? No, he opened 88. 88. It should have been 88. I have we have two different items 88 excuse me motion to take item item 88 out of order st. Paul absolutely all right staff the agenda that is in front of me is dated oh nine July 420 is this incorrect which we have So, Council Members, you should have 111 in front of you. It was updated at 1.11 p.m. That's what you all have, all right? The item is shown as 89. Is that the one you opened, Council? I have mine showing item 80. Mine is showing item 88. They're going to give you the correct one. And this one we don't have, ladies and gentlemen. Who's that? Who's that? Motion to take item 89 out of order. All right, you want to put the other one back in order? Second by Councilmember Wingo. Public hearing, disposition of real property, 11 St. Paul. Motion to open a public hearing? Motion to open a public hearing. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Public hearing is now open. Is there anyone here to speak on this item? All right. For the record, I will state that we have worked with Ellicott Development that actually bought All of the houses on Saint Paul and has waited for over 2 years now in this as we had a moratorium and I've always said I've been very open that they should receive this property and even the abandonment of the small street there. They treated the residents there very, very well in the cell of those properties and the project around it is a. asset they even saved the church there that I believe other developers may have knocked down and they are really beautifully restoring it so I support this wholeheartedly no other comments Mr. Chairman motion to close public hearing second by council member, Columbia Motion to approve motion to approve second by council member chairman If you would just give me a minute correct my agenda because I have absolutely gender which is different than the agenda that everybody else has You can sir. I apologize. I have the agenda marked for yesterday The new agenda came out at 1 p.m. Today, so there is a mix-up, but we can continue We'll catch up when we make a mistake The only thing we need to do is rescind the approval because I should have been a receiving file It should have been received which is closing the public hearing Motion to close public hearing I think we did that but we'll do it again motion is out to receive and file motion I was receiving files second by councilor of the Lombok and I think we're okay things happen. We'll start good. I Asked it Jim keep keep me Jerry. Keep me on track in case I get off The top item one Appoint confidential aid to the mayor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 2, submission of monthly report June 2018. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 3, report of sale 917 East Elyvan. Motion to send to CD items 3 and 4. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 5, report of sale 20 Gibson. Motion to approve Items 5 and 6. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 7, Report of Sale 21 and 23, Rappin. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 8, Report of Sale 318, 392, Wilson. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pruton. Item 9, Report of Sale 101, Wyoming. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 10, Report of Sale... various properties, properties, Zenner. Motion to approve. By Council Member White. Item 11, 2018-2019 AAP budget. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 12, permission to enter into extended agreement with Spectrum. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 13, notification serials. Motions receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 14, changing contract, Hazen and Sawyer corrosion evaluation. Motion to approve. Items 14, change. through 28 28 29 to 29 second by councilman freelo item 30 a point coordinator special events motion to send the civil service items 30 through 32. second by council member friends item 33 point engineering inspector motion motion to approve civil service item 33. item 32 is civil service 33. you said i am civil service item 30-32 civil service is that correct second by councilman fontana item 33 is appointed engineering inspector going to civil service also 33 to civil service second by councilman for item 34 approval to renew various contracts motion to send to finance second by councilman, Belum bit item 35 approval to purchase new police vehicles motion to approve second by councilman friends in item 36 appoint public safety dispatcher motion sent items 36 through 46 to civil service saying that councilmember white I am 47 claims committee agenda. I Motion to send six claims committee second by councilor for the love I'm 48 food store license 1059 Grant Street motion to approve second by council member the Lombok I'm 49 garbage collector license motion to send legislation Bring my customer a glumber. I'm 50 secondhand dealer 207 Niagara motion to approve items 50 through 53 second by council member Lingo as a floor yeah, can we go back to revisit 35? I? Motion to revisit item 35? Yeah, before we get to 5. Motion to revisit item 35. Seconded by Councilmember Freeler. Item is before us. We approved this item, and I don't recall this going to finance. Did this go through finance? It doesn't have to go to finance. How many? So 20 vehicles. Do we know how much we're going to pay for these 20 vehicles? We just approved it for them to... It was discussed in caucus. I mean, nobody asked for it to be sent. So it doesn't have to, for clarification, it doesn't automatically have to be, no item has to automatically be sent like this to finance. If there was a question or a council member had a question, we had the staff there to answer it, so we didn't. Okay. We just approved it. So we don't know how much we're paying for these vehicles? You said we don't know who's paying for them? Yeah, we don't know how much we're paying for these vehicles. Does anybody know how much we're paying for these vehicles? No. We're buying 20 vehicles, 10 marked, 10 unmarked. Yeah, it says up to 10 marked vehicles from the 2018-2019 fiscal budget. Council Member Fontana. What was the motion? It was going to look like finance. Approved. No, it was to approve. Okay. Sometimes we send this to finance to ask what type of vehicles, but at this point, we're unhappy with the price and the performance of the Tahos, so they're going to continue to buy the... the Dodge Chargers at this point, the all-wheel drive Chargers. Now, those are sucking gas down faster than Mickey Kearns at a beer station, but it's just not going to be, there's no other choice out there at this point. All right, so we can basically anticipate how much we're going to pay for them just because of what we've already purchased. All right. Well, it's off the state bid. The Chargers are the least expensive patrol vehicle out there at this point. The Tahos, they raised upwards of $40,000, and the 14 Tahos are breaking down left and right. There's no air conditioners in some of them, so the 15s got better. When I speak to the police, they do like the Chargers. They prefer Durangos at this point, but we're not going to shell out that kind of money for Durangos. I'll say it's it's you know if you want to send it to finance We could have them come in and discuss to see how they've been doing We are using quite a bit more gas in these cars, but in today's world of unibody cars There's not much out there on the market that really holds up the police work. Yeah. No, that's it I mean, there's only car out there so So, I mean, you're buying 10 unmarked as well. Just 10 marked. That's not a lot of cars. The question is, is that all we're buying for the year? Because if it's only 10, that's going to put us behind in future years because we normally have to buy at least 25 for a year. There might be another source of funds coming, so that's the question. They might be buying more cars. 10 would not be enough for the fiscal year. Yes, that was my other follow-up question. The 10 unmarked cars, are these going to captains or chiefs? Yes. Those are the cars that you'll see driving around. They do take those home. It's one of those maintenance of effort situations. Sometimes they're called in the middle of the night so they have a car with them. They should not be taking them to Florida. They should not be taking them shopping, I don't think, but they should have them ready to go if they have to come into work. All right motion stands On a 54 use card dealer 337 North Adgan motion sent alleged second by councilman Fontana on 55 a point environmental safety assistant motion attendance in the civil service items 55 and 56 and my customer content 57 permission to waive formal bidding A motion was to send to finance, but we did get some clarification, and I think Councilmember Fontana would like to speak on that. Councilmember Fontana has the floor. I appreciate that. Thank you. I did receive a call from Bill Sutherland. Some people think he's my brother, but he's not. But Bill wanted to tell me about the item. I thought he reached out to leadership, so I apologize. I didn't call up anybody on it. He did call me and ask that we approve that this week. He was unable to get formal bids, but he went out and received four informal bids for the work. It's for police headquarters, and it will save us time to get into the building, and that's what we all wanted to do over the budget cycle is get into police headquarters. So this would save us time if we approve it today. I'm confident that he took informal bids properly and that they represented to us today properly, and we do have four relatively close bids here. Here, one being the lowest, and that's the one he picked to choose. All right. So I'm okay with a motion to approve at this point, if my colleagues are. Otherwise, if they're not, I'll entertain it in finance. But I did formally vet the item. All right. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Thank you. Item 58, appoint Director of Open Data. Motion to send to Civil Service items 58 through 61. Second by Council Member Watt. That's 62. Thank you. And 62, seconded by Council Member White. Item 63, item to return to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 6368. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item 69, notice of appointment, council intern. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 70, notice of appointment, seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 71, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Proctor, Ms. Scanlon. Miscellaneous items item 72 request amendment to agreement to allow expansion motion to send the legislation second by councilman scoundrel I'm 73 concerns traffic on North Hampton Street motion to send a CD DPW and BPD saying my customer for a little I'm 74 brownfield cleanup 1140 and 1162 Jefferson motion to receive and file Second by Councilmember Friulotto. Item 75, SEQR, Negdeck, 1487, Hurdle. Motion to adopt items 75 through 79. Second by Councilmember Franza. Petitions, item 80, Special Use Permit, 1893, Niagara. Motion to send to legislation items 80 through 86. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 87, petitioner requests to speed to Humps at Park Ridge and Hewitt. And city planning board items 80 through 86. That's the legend city planning board All right, just for clarification all those items that were just 80 through 86 The motion was for both ledge and city planning board motion stands with that note Item 87 petition request speed humps at Park Ridge and Hewitt and Comstock and do it motion to approve Excuse me Send the seat I don't have that that's where we have motion to send the cd and dpw sent by councilman colombo committee civil service item one appoint complaint clerk motion to approve items number one two three four five six seven eight nine eight excuse me one through eight second by council item nine notice department temporary provisional permanent motion to receive a file 9 and 10. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Finance Committee, Item 11, 6-month follow-up audit on fire department payroll. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Franzen. Item 12, drug asset forfeiture annual certificate report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Revere. Community Development, Item 13, public hearing on banner sale of Providence. I'm not sure whose council district this was. Providence? Did we have a hearing? Mr. Scanlon. This will be the hearing. Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you. I've talked with the applicant a number of times about this. I don't believe they're in attendance today. We're just working through a couple final things moving forward after the actual sale of it so we could close the public hearing today. All right. So, oh, because we opened it. It was still open. We didn't open the public hearing yet. This is it now. So we have to open this public hearing and then we'll put that on the record for the public hearing. Okay. motion of the public hearing second by council member scanlon is for this item is before us anybody here to be heard on this item besides council member Alright, we'll take the comments of the comments pretty on the record again. Thank you council president Um, I've worked through this issue with the the applicant. We've met a number of times to discuss it. This is um We're doing crease the land surrounding his business and the corner of Hopkins and tift and so in the South District There's just a couple of minor things that we're working on moving forward So we can close the public hearing today that I will work on before we actual go ahead with the sale So if we can have the sale actual sent sent to committee And not actually go ahead with the sale. We'll close the public hearing. All right. Yes. Motion to close the public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item 14, report of sale, 87 French. This is Mastin District. Item number 14 from CD. Approve it. Approved motion is to approve said my counselor Wingo item 15 report of sale 1271 Genesee Motion to approve second by councilmember fear a little I'm 16 disposition of real property 11 st. Paul This was without rec book. Is this a receiving because we had to wait for the public hearing but I Now we have to approve it. Okay, so motion is to approve the site. Mm-hmm. For 16 and 17. Motion is to approve 16 and 17. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 18, Fruit Belt Update. Motion to receive and file 18 through and including 22. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Legislation Committee, Item 23, Report of Sale 318-392, Wilson. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Winkle. Item 24, Mobile Food Truck. There are no objections motion to approve items 24 through and including 28 second by the majority leader I'm 29 tire handler license 2170 South Park that originally came without recommendation motion is now to approve second by councilman front and item 30 ordinance member chapter 316 mobile bail bonds motion to approve I by council member Wyatt I'm 31 adoption of Buffalo local waterfront revitalization program motion to receive and file second by council member Golombi item 32 175 Buffalo River designated concrete central elevators local landmark motion to approve And my country risk and under 33 appeal Preservation Board decision 21 Mayfair motion receiving file saying what comes when we scan Resolutions item 88 C waiver for habitat motion to approve second by councilman Fontana item 90 New York State Main Street program grant application for a Buffalo place motion to adapt Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 91, fee waived for Erie County Department of Health Opioid Awareness Event. Motion to approve items 91 through 96. Second by Councilmember Fierlo. Item 97, restrictions on the outdoor restraint of pets. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Fierlo. Item 98, waived permit fee for the... Crossroads of creativity motion to approve items 98 and 99 so that councilmember Wyatt Committee meetings regular committees committee on civil service Tuesday, July 17th 9 45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service committee on community development Tuesday, July 17th 1 p.m. Committee on legislation Tuesday, July 17th 2 p.m. Special committees committee on claims Thursday, July 19th 10 a.m Council members any announcements councilman Wingo I Thank you, Mr. Chair. Saturday, 8.30 in the morning at the Delavan Griders Center, we will have our Mass and Stakeholders Meeting that everyone in the City of Buffalo is invited to. Come out and get some great information, some great breakfast, and of course, we share information there as well. So, we would like to build everyone's capacity and that we want to ensure that we disseminate accurate information. good information. So please again come out on Saturday at 830 at the Delavan Writers Center 877 East Delavan and we look forward to having you all there as we are growing both educationally and we're growing this way as well because we eat very very very well. July 14th. July 14th. Yes sir, thank you. Alrighty. any other announcements councilman white thank you mr chair um just want to announce that we have now our university district impact team and that if there are seniors who are looking at this broadcast hopefully maybe not on 1301 but if they are watching they can call our office and we will send our district impact team out to assist in cutting grass and different things um so i'm just really proud of that i think that's going to be a real help to our seniors On July 17th at 5.30, we'll have a public meeting regarding Shoshone Park and the pool situation. So that's July 17th at 5.30. And also our back-to-school kickoff will take place on August 19th at Edward Saunders from 12 to 4 p.m. Thank you, sir. Two to four, excuse me. Two to four. All right. Any other announcements? All right. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. We adjourn.