his passion for education thank you so much thank you any other speakers we'd ask that you would also observe and anytime uh mr luinga be brief like that we can all follow suit thank you unit good afternoon council president esteemed members of this common council friends family and all who are gathered here today for the record my name is casimiro rodriguez I have the distinct honor of being the president of the Hispanic Heritage Council of Western New York, and I come before you on behalf of our board of directors and as a proud leader of our Hispanic community. The mission of our council is to foster, inspire awareness and understanding and appreciation of past, present, and future contributions of the Hispanic community in Western New York. Since our inception and for the past eight years, HHC has worked locally to ensure that the contribution of Hispanics to the rich cultural, social, and economic landscape of our area are recognized and preserved. We strive to continually find ways to remember and honor the pioneers who came before us and have helped our community to progress to where it is today. As an organization, we believe that we must memorize the names of our predecessors so that they will be remembered for future generations. The stories of these individuals and the life they led in our great city continue to resonate and inspire us today in ways that will continue to strive for a better and progressive community and city for all. This coming September will be a year that our organization, in line with its mission, announced to the community an initiative of naming the Niagara Branch Library in honor of one of its community pioneers. After six months of community input, an independent committee made of community leaders was formed, followed by a rigorous and transparent selection process. Three nominees were reviewed and a name was selected. That brings me to the reason why I'm here today to speak on the legislation of the naming of the Niagara Branch Library in honor of one of these pioneers, Don Isaias Gonzalez Soto. I as a youngster had the privilege to know Mr. Gonzalez and saw firsthand his unwavering commitment and dedication for a better future for all. It is through this experience that I personally took path a life of community service. Mr. Gonzales Soto, like me, inspired many that today lead lives professionally in areas of education, law, medicine, and public service. To this end, I appeal to this governing body to approve this legislation, and I thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Anyone else to be heard on this item? All right, seeing none. Oh, we have one more coming? State your name for the record. Good afternoon. I am the Reverend Justo Gonzalez II, the youngest son of Isaias and Bernarda Gonzalez Soto or Gonzalez Hernandez, depending upon which one you're speaking of. First and foremost, Reverend Pridgen, Council President and Majority Leader Rivera, I want to thank you, and I want to thank the Hispanic Heritage Council, UNISC, Taz, Tamara, and all the selection committee members who honor our family by honoring the work of justice that my dad did. As a child, my father taught me that service to others is service to God. and that the holy is benefited and grace occurs when we are willing to stand on behalf of justice for those that are hurting, broken, and oppressed. My father was part of the first immigrant wave that came to Western New York of Puerto Ricans. He encountered, like many of the pioneer communities, overt racism and discrimination, Our house became a place of knocking. People coming at all hours of the day and the night asking for la ayuda, or help, of Don Isaias to help people who had been harassed by police at that point, or who had died and did not have the financial resources to send their bodies back to Puerto Rico. But my father's most passionate thing was education. I knew as a small child that I was going to college before I knew what college was. My brothers and sisters knew that too. My father was the chairman of the bilingual education advisory board. the educational system to provide Spanish language and bilingual, now multicultural, education for those who came from Puerto Rico and other parts of the world who were regularly demoted simply because of their lack of English-speaking skills. It wasn't their intellect. It wasn't their capacity. It was the language that they spoke. My father also taught me to be tenacious. He taught our community to be tenacious. He could love you with a bear hug and push you really hard if that's what needed to be done too. He was and is a community activist. We thank you. We appreciate your willingness to honor him and his legacy. And I too believe that it is a perfect fit because education is what this family is all about and making sure that the next generations of leaders have the opportunity to discover new places, new world, new realities, new opportunities that are hidden and unfolded before them through books and education. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Very befitting that that's the last one. Thank you. Councilman Riviere? Thank you very much. As a young child, I grew up playing with the Gonzalez family on 7th Street at Old School Number 1. And all along I didn't know Isaias Gonzalez was doing all that stuff. We were so far removed from the things that were happening, the real things that mattered. And later on in life I found out that he was a pillar in this community, that he fought for social justice, for equality. He fought for his community, for education, for bilingual education. He advocated for those that needed the voice. So when they came to me and early this year with proposal to rename the Niagara Branch Library, I said put together a process that is open, transparent, and engages the community. And they did exactly that. They went out put together a nominating committee that went out and nominated so many qualified candidates. I wish I had buildings for all of the candidates that were among them. Then they put together a committee to select a name when they came back with Isiah Gonzalez I said you guys did your job great work so today it is my honor and privilege to approve their requests and to name the Niagara Branch library Isiah Gonzalez library on the city's west side thank you so much Motion to close the public hearing. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Councilmember White. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franczak. And I think that's unanimous twice now. You all had a unanimous vote, and now you have unanimous vote from the City Council. Congratulations. Thank you. All right. Great. From the top. Item 1, Proposed Agreement to Fund Aspects of Mayor's Annual Seniors Pig Roast. Motion to approve Items 1 through 4. Thank you. Second by council member wing go and five appoint city stat analyst motion to receive and file items five through Eight second my councilman Fontana item nine appoint assistant auditor motion to send civil service Second by councilman Wingo item 10 request approval certificate adjusted base proportions 2018 motion to send the finance items 10 and 11 Second by Councilmember Fioreletto. Item 12, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item 13, extension agreement, Emergence Tech. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Second by President Pro Tempscannell. Item 15, notification serials. Motion to receive and file items 15 and 16. Second by Councilmember Fioreletto. Item 17, Chalmers Avenue extension acquisition agreement. Motion to approve item 1744. second by council member London 45 point program coordinator mr. chair I'm sorry council member Wingo I'm sorry you had a floor yes item number 17 just want to speak briefly on on item number 17 the motion is to revisit item number 17 second by councilman I should revisit item 17 thank you mr. chair I appreciate the opportunity to just to speak briefly on this item as we extend Chalmers Avenue has been acquired by Simonelli AND THE WORK THAT THEY'RE DOING OVER IN HIGHLAND PARK IS INCREDIBLE HOW IT'S GOING TO BE A TRANSFORMATION OF THAT AREA THAT USED TO BE THE CENTRAL PARK SHOPPING PLAZA. I REMEMBER DRIVING THROUGH CENTRAL PARK PLAZA LEARNING HOW TO DRIVE WHEN I WAS A LITTLE BOY. Riding my bike through Central Park Plaza and just to see the transformation that's happening over there is incredible now this this agreement here has been Something that's been in the works for a while between The developer and the city of Buffalo and I just want to commend the developer for their diligence and ensuring that this actually did happen Because to extend Chalmers Avenue is to extend and increase the footprint of a neighborhood and I do have to say John Simonelli has has been very active in the community. He lives in the community right around the corner. He has invested heavily in that area. He has constant communication with our office. And I believe that if we could get more developers to be that community driven and community minded like John, I believe we'd have a lot more community conscious developments in the future. Now, this development that's happening over there, I'm looking forward to the ribbon cutting ceremony so that we can introduce all of the great things that are happening over in that Area but other than that mr. Chair I just wanted to make sure that I put that on the record that we are ecstatic that this is happening the right of way agreement between chambers in the city the city and the developer is actually going to happen and Kudos to the developer for all of their hard work and their diligence and ensuring that everything was done Decently and in order thank you and to mr. Winovsky for all of the work that he did virus corresponding back and forth between the city of Buffalo and because it can get a little choppy sometimes. But they stuck to it, and this is happening before recess, and I would like to commend my staff as well for their hard work in ensuring that this thing got through. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We appreciate it. It's an important project, and a lot of people thought it couldn't happen, and all you need is somebody who's determined enough to make it happen and people working together. So I know you'll be happy at the ribbon-cutting, and hopefully we'll get a little invite and come on over there. Thank you. All right, great. 145 Appointment Program Coordinator. Motion to receive and file. Send to civil service. This is going to civil service. Which one are we referring to? Number 45. 45, civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 46, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 47, JAG program renewal year 14. Motion to approve items 47 through 49. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item 50, appoint deputy fire commissioner. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 51, reimbursement towing and storage fees. Motion to approve. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER FRANTENNA. 152, DEMO CONTRACT BETWEEN CITY OF BUFFALO AND GUIDER DUNN, 1270 BROADWAY. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER FERENZO. 153, FOOD STORE LICENSE, 2360 BAILEY. MOTION TO APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS SET BY DISTRICT COUNCILMEMBER. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER FRANTENNA. 154, FOOD STORE LICENSE, 1963 FILMORE. MOTION TO APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER WINGO. Item 55 food store license 23 36 Seneca motion to approve with condition one one year sunset second by president Tim Scanlon item 56 restaurant a license motion to approve items 56 and 57 the chairs second by comes from a friend's echo has a floor. Yes. Thank you. Just an item of 56 for the approval of the restaurant dance license or the house brawl house and The Haufbrauhaus is a restaurant that is in Munich, Germany, and all the branches of the Haufbrauhaus throughout the world, I suppose, are exactly the same as they are as the Munich restaurant, which I visited many years ago. And the closest one to Buffalo is in Pittsburgh. And so it's just like the model of the one in Germany of a classic beer cellar, music and costume people and very traditional food so I think this is gonna be a this has been in the works in Buffalo for several years they had some issues with some water lines and things along those lines but I think this is gonna be a good fit for the city of Buffalo it's gonna be a real good asset it's gonna bring a lot more people downtown was this one in newspaper like have someone on Scott Street and they you know it's part of that wider uh german chain yeah i think i read about it yeah it's going to be it's going to be very exciting thank you great thank you thank you sir 158 sidewalk i'm sorry councilman what can we go back to number one please back to number one yes all right motion is to revisit item number one motion to revisit item one thing about constant content i just have some questions on it was this on our agenda during the pre-pockets I do believe this is a late file that came in today. The event is going to be on the 3rd, which is the 3rd of August, and I think it was some so they needed a rush. And that's the reason why it's here today for immediate approval. I mean, no problem with it, but I want to see, because I see that it's funding for an event for the mayor. I don't know if it's going to be a meeting. IT'S FOR THE MAYOR, WE HAVE A SENIORS EVENT THAT WE HAVE IN SEPTEMBER. IS THAT SOMETHING THAT WE CAN ASSESS FUNDS FOR FOR AN EVENT? I MEAN, IS THIS A PRECEDENT THAT WE'RE SETTING THAT WE'RE USING PUBLIC FUNDS FOR AN EVENT? I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR BECAUSE IF SO, THEN WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE PUT IN FOR OUR EVENT THAT WE HAVE FOR SENIORS. I can kind of answer that if you want that nothing takes away from the council being able to have the same request. Okay, it just the senior event from historically has been something sponsored by the council members from their discretion. Okay, okay. I just wanted to make sure I mean, as long as it's okay. Yeah, but but it's just nice to know because. IT'S A NICE EVENT. I THINK THAT THE MAYOR HAS BEEN DOING THIS FOR A LONG TIME. HE GETS A GREAT TURNOUT FOR SENIORS AND ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO FOR SENIORS, I'M DEFINITELY IN SUPPORT OF. BUT I WANTED TO KNOW IF WE COULD DO THIS FOR OUR EVENT BECAUSE WE HAVE A TREMENDOUS TURNOUT OVER THE LAST SIX OR SEVEN YEARS FOR OUR SENIOR BALL. SO JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER OKAY. NEXT ITEM. NEW SPEAKER 159, USE CAR DEALER 780 WALDEN. NEW SPEAKER MOTION TO ASCEND THE LEGISLATION. NEW SPEAKER SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER PONTANA. I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Ferenczak. can we go back to 58 what was the motion of the sidewalk cafe license rec room motion to send the legislation oh all right all right and i just want to say i know it's summer and they want to do it now but we're just getting it it needs to be measured and there's been a lot of problems for the record on chippewa with the cafes outside especially the noise at night so we just have to walk slowly through that thank you sir next item item 61 appoint secretary to the commissioner motion to send the civil service second by councilmember wingo item 62 motion you want to rescind that as a receiving file number 61 is the receiving are we missing something here you said motion to send a civil service so the motion is actually to receive a file second by customer columbia item 62 proposed agreement dress for success buffalo program motion to approve second by councilmember why item 63 appoint personnel specialist one motion to receive and file So 63 is the receiving file? Yes, sir. All right second by councilmember friends I'm 64 liquor license 85 West Chippewa motion to receive and file and 64 through 66 second by councilmember little I'm 67 appoint senior legislative assistant to motion for that second by president pro tip I'm 68 notice appointments temporary provisional permit motion to send the civil service and by councilmember But I'm 69 notice appointment seasonal motion to receive and file second by customer what I? Miscellaneous items items 70 zoning Board of Appeals public hearing notice 47 Kenmore motion to receive and file 70 what are we up to 70? No, that's CD and strategic plan I Receive and felt that you know any is there anything number 70 I have marked received it initially it was marked the CD There's a public hearing So I'm not sure what's on yours majority leader, but this is for CD and strategic planning. Okay. It was crossed out and put receiving file, but we can send it to CD and strategic planning. All right, second by council member wire and 71 requests for transfer property at 37 Mulberry motion to send the CD and strategic planning. Yeah, that's fine on that. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WHITE. ITEM 72, CONCERN, SUGGESTIONS, FUTURE OF CENTRAL TERMINAL. MOTION TO SEND TO CD. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRANZE. ITEM 73, REQUEST TO FUND SPEED BUMP, HUET AND PARKERY. MOTION TO SEND TO CD. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER BALUMBA. ITEM 74, LETTER IN SUPPORT OF NAMING OF NIAGARA BRANCH LIBRARY. MOTION TO APPROVE. RECEIVING FILE? IT'S JUST A LETTER IN SUPPORT. OH, THAT'S A RECEIVING FILE? YEP. IT'S JUST A LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR THE LIBRARY THAT WE JUST NAMED. Second by Council Member Blinkle. Item 75, SEQRA, finding statement for FSGEIS. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fierlotto. Item 76, request to purchase vacant lot 71, Longnecker. Motion to send to CD and strategic planning. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 77, SEAF for special use permit 1061, Sycamore. Motion to adopt. All right second by customer friends. I'm 78 spectrum cable customer service concerns motions and finance and my customer wife petitions item 79 and 26 military industrial artisan motion sent to legislation and city planning board second by council member Committee civil service item 1 appoint confidential aid to the mayor motion to approve items number 1 through 26 27 appoint deputy commissioner of Community Services motion to receive in five by customer Wingo Finance Committee item 28 permission entered into extended agreement with spectrum Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Frielo. Item 29, approval to renew various contracts. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Item 30, follow-up to audit report. 30, 31, 32. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. And let me just, for the record, on number 30, I do understand that there was an interview with the Comptroller in which there was a comment that Council President could put cameras in the clerk's office in seconds if he wanted to. This is just not true. There is a process that the city is going through to put the cameras in the clerk's office. There is no hold off by this council to do it. We actually agree with it. and have agreed with the entire audit. I think what people may not know about me, and I'm okay with it, if there's something that needs to be improved in City Hall, I don't hide my head under a rock. Let's improve it. The job of the Comptroller is to come through and look at processes and to look at what goes on, but to state, publicly that we could somehow magically put cameras in that have to go out for bid that is an administrative function that the administration is not against everybody's working on the same page to put the cameras in the building so it is not a foot dragging by this council for cameras that I'm in full agreement with since it was out there in public I wanted to answer it in public we have we have I think build a relationship of cooperation with all branches of government, because it's better to cooperate and move a government forward together for the good of the people. And so I just want to be clear that I can't do this and cameras appear. Next item. Item 33, receding unissued bond authorized by repealing various bond resolutions. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 34, 2017-2018 third quarter gap sheets responses. There are no objections. Motion to receive and file 34 through and including 37. Motion. Council Member Wingals. Community Development Committee, item 38, report of sale 48 Fox. That's fine. I'm sorry, I didn't give you an answer on that one. Whoever's community development, CD. Which one? Is this your district? It's fine. Okay, motion to approve. Say goodbye, Council Member Freer-Lotto. Item 39, 2018-2019 AAP budget, amend 2017-2018. Motion to approve. second by council um member franza 140 concerns traffic on northampton street motion to receive and file second by council member white 141 abandonment sale portion of providence street motion to approve second by council member 41 and 42. by council member wing and 43 205 bailey concerns roadwork motion to receive and file 43 through and including 58. second by the majority Legislation Committee item 59 garbage collection license motion to approve second by councilmember the alumni I am 60 request amendment to agree to allow expansion Motion to recommit second by councilmember the lumber I'm 61 special use permit 1893 Niagara will Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item 62, Special Use Print 1061 Sycamore. There are no objections. Motion to approve items number 62, 63, and 64. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 65, Special Use Print 1487 Hurdle. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 66, Planned Unit Development 2182 Delaware and 1231 Elmwood. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 67, designate Cargill Superior Elevators local landmark. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 68, 341 Franklin Street local landmark. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Majority Leader Revere. Item 69, 794 North Hampton Street. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 71, ZMA for 64 Fillmore Avenue. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Colombe. Item 72, Special Use Permit 456 Maine. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 73, adoption of Buffalo Local Waterfront Revitalization Program. Originally came without recommendation. The seeker is in, so motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Skidmore. Claims Committee. Item 74. Motion to approve item 74 through and including 102. Up to 101, because 102 is the agenda. 101. 101. Second by Council Member Lombeck. Item 102, claims committee agenda. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Winkle. Resolutions. Item 80, fee waiver North Buffalo Farmers Market. Motion to approve items 80 through 82. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 84, support for King Urban Life Center's state grant application. Did you skip item 83? 83 is the discharge. Discharge. Item 84 is an adopt. Second by councilmember friends that I made five ordinance amendment chapter 437 taxicab delivery sightseeing buses motion send the legislation Second by council member Lombok by May 6th annual Buffalo City hoops the waiver resolution motion to approve items 86 through 90 second by councilmember 91 Ordinance and enactment chapter 346 public facility sports theater artistic revitalization fund motion is sent to legislation Second by councilmember Fontana. I'm 92 Sperry Park unity day fee waiver resolution motion to approve second by councilmember Item 93 support of City Honors Pawsic Mastin Park for historic preservation grant motion to adopt item 90 items 93 and 94 And my council member feel item 95 changed name with Niagara Branch library to the Goulash Galatius Gonzalez library motion to approve items 95 through 96 second by council member friends I'm 97 allowing foundation encroachments under our OW motion to that second by council members and I'm 98 fee waiver moving night and tree lighting MLK Park motion to approve my council member wing Item 99, 33 expressway maintenance and beautification request. Motion to adopt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm sorry, we have to finish up. Motion to adopt. The resolves. The remainder is to be seen. Councilman White, you have the floor. I just wanted to bring up this item regarding the expressway and beautification for the 33. I've been getting a number of complaints from residents, most of them from the SUFFOLK EXIT AND ENTRANCE IN WHICH IT LOOKS LIKE A JUNGLE. AND WE MET WITH SOME REPRESENTATIVES FROM DOT, AND THEY SAID THAT THE LANDSCAPERS THROUGH DOT THINK THAT THE 33 LOOKS BEAUTIFUL. THEY THINK IT LOOKS VERY NICE. And I said, well, maybe he should try to put that landscaping in his neck of the woods where he lives. Because when you drive up the 33, it does look like a jungle. And so we would love to partner with the. D O T that we've already talked to some residents who would be interested. And adopting part of the 33 to entrances. To keep it clean, because we do have some folks who. Do not care for our community to be litter free. Some of them get on the entrance and exits and they drop litter and I would hope that we would stop that because it makes our community look very bad. But more importantly, I hope that the DOT will work with us to cut back some of the brush for my neighborhoods because it's a tale of two communities. When you go through other communities, you don't see all that. But when you come through the city in our areas, you see all this debris and overgrowth, and it doesn't look attractive. So I talked to a representative from the DOT. They are very open with meeting with us and talking about it. We're going to be putting this forth during community development, where I ask many of our community people to come out and speak up, as well as also participate in trying to clean up, because this is not one – One person's issue, one group's issue, it's our community's issue. So we really want to get the community involved and engaged to partner with DLT to make the 33 look as beautiful as the city of Buffalo. Thank you. And they had a program, ADAPTA, and I'm part of several organizations that tried to... Do that and no one returns a call. So there are organizations out there that I think would help. They shouldn't be the responsible ones, but there are organizations and maybe they want to revisit that because there are people in the city who want to help. I'm hopeful that bringing this out to the public will get more people involved, those who are concerned about it. Because the DOT has made some changes through how much they cut. There was a time they cut a larger portion, but because of the gas crisis some years ago, they scaled that back and never revisited it because it's costly. But it does make our city look very bad. I know we go through cities all the time, and when you go through their interstates, they look pristine. Ours doesn't look as nice, and I'm just hopeful that we can partner with the DOT, with community residents who care to really make those entrances and exits in our community look as nice as the city. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have to commend my colleague, Council Member Wyatt, when he said. asked us to sign on with this resolution we were ecstatic because We've had folks in our district who have gotten up in age who can no longer Do what they used to do at those entrances? I'm not gonna say what's entrance and your rent what ramps they are but a couple of those ramps were taken care of by only two residents and They would cut and plant flowers, and it was beautiful. And since those residents have gotten older and can no longer do the work that they used to do, now those entrances, those ramps don't look as good as they used to. On the city side, not on the interior of 33, but on the on-ramp, on the off-ramp. But I think the state maybe have gotten a little spoiled by that because I guess they figured they don't have to do it anymore. But I share sentiments with my colleague wholeheartedly regarding the maintenance and beautification of the 33. And I am 100% behind this effort. If there's anything we can do, let us know. But I know that Mastin District, we have our little mini impact team that we dispatch. But we use that to take care of our vacant lots in Mastin and our residents who cannot... you know, maintain their yards. So I'm hoping, I'm prayerful that DOT steps up and does the right thing. Again, they have not revisited their fuel consumption since the hike in gas prices, so we're hoping that they can revisit that at this point and see that it is worthwhile for them to go back to taking all of that greenery, pushing it back further so that we can see, so that it doesn't look like but councilman wyatt calls a jungle thank you mr chair we have had siberia in this council now we have the jungle in this council council member fontana what do you have if you could add my name to the resolution all right as mine all right any other discussion on this item all right you didn't want to name it anything besides jungle are we okay give me a minute all right next item 100 budget and personnel amendment administrative office motion to approve thank you my councilman white on 101 commissioner of deeds motion to adopt items 101 and through 103. my councilman white let's revisit item 102 please motion motion revisit item 102. second by councilman fontana it just needs the full motion to adopt The resolves the remainder to finance. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Fontana. Just for a point of personal privilege, if I could ask the clerk for the motion on item number 32. 32. The motion. On the regular agenda? Yeah, regular agenda. That was approved. Approved. We might want to revisit that. There was a maximum amount of $200 or $300 per district for street lights this coming year. And I don't think that's going to put up many lights. I think it's going to be one of us up on a pole again putting up lights like the old days. So we might want to send that to maybe finance, talk about it over the summer, and then we can look at it in the fall. So your request is to send this to committee? Yeah. All right. Motion is to rescind the previous motion to approve. Second by Council Member Pialetto. Motion is now to send to finance. Second by Council Member Fontana. Council Member Wyatt. If we can revisit number 102. Motion to revisit item 102. Second by Council Member Pialetto. Last week we had a number of residents come out and talk about the dangerous situations that occur on our city streets where people continue to speed on side streets and go through red stop signs and red lights. And I'm asking for some, for us to do some emergency funding for speed humps. We put forth a, during the block grant. funding process that was for additional speed humps. That was not something that was allowed through Block Grant. So now we are sitting with this same problem and we have to wait another year for us to address it. That just cannot be. So I'm hoping that we can marshal up some dollars to increase the number of speed humps that we currently have. We currently have nine for the entire city. And you saw a small portion of people from my district who have come, and I continue to be inundated. Mike Finn said he has a list of over 200 people. groups that want to see speed humps. I think it's something that again, we need to be more proactive because we've had a great number of people come out. I know they're looking for a more comprehensive plan to address the issue. But while we're looking for a comprehensive plan, we have put something in place that has shown to work and that was the speed humps. So I'm hoping that we can put some funding together to purchase at least triple the number of speed humps that we currently have. Right now we have nine. And so after we go through the nine for 200 and something organizations who have put forth their concern for speed humps, We're never going to get to them. So they may not see speed humps until the next decade because we only have a limited number. So I would hope that my colleagues would support me because we know that this is a serious quality of life issue that many of us in our districts have residents who would like to see individuals slow down on their street because all we need is one child to be killed or harmed in this way and then we'll have a knee-jerk reaction to do something when we can do something now. I was just asking Corporation Council. I know we're putting in the temporary ones, and I know it's New York state law that we don't have permanent ones. Of course, permanent ones are a lot less expensive, and they don't move. They're just there, but it is the state law. All right. Is there a resolution? Is that what that item is? Yes. Okay. All righty. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, July 31st, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, July 31st, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, July 31st, 2 p.m. Council Members, any announcements for your districts? Only one I have for those who watch us in Siberia is Operation Slumlord. If you have any dilapidated properties that you know of in the Ellicott District, if you give our office a call, we are making our final list. Now I've been out on the streets looking at every one of the houses that constituents have called in. on so that we can choose our top 10 to give them the gift of a sign outside of their property with their name and their current mailing address. And we will have a ribbon cutting at each one of those properties to help encourage those landlords. who own property in the Ellicott District, who have decided not to take care of them and leave them for the neighbors to cut your grass and to do other things like that. We will help the neighbors to contact you. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you Mr. Chair. Since we are on recess, I'm not going to be on recess in August, I will continue to be working. On August 9th we have a historical findings meeting at UB Hayes Hall, 5 p.m. We asked the residents to come out. This is a very, very important meeting. We're trying to get a designation for our community so that tax credits will be available to residents as well as businesses that want to invest the University District. So this is going to take place August 9th, historical findings 5 p.m. at UB Hayes Hall. And we also will have a documentary talking about the history of the University District in Kensington Bailey neighborhood on August 23rd at at 5 p.m. at Varsity Theater. We want to thank our own Dwayne Thomas for assisting us in putting that documentary together. We have a ton of residents who have lived in the district for a very long time who will be telling their story and telling the history of the Kensington-Bailey neighborhood. On August 19th, we have our back to school, our annual back to school event that is going to be taking place at the Edward Saunders Community Center from 2 to 4. That's August 19th. Thank you. All right, nothing else? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Fontana. We adjourn.