roll call councilmember Farrell a councilmember Fontana
 Councilmember Franczak? Here. Councilmember Golombac? Here. Council President Pridgen? I key. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scalin? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Corm is present. We are pleased today to have one of our seniors from Lafayette High School who is actually from the Congo. He is now an American citizen, Agustin Bonown, who I recruited to do the pledge to the flag.
 who will be doing that today. He is here with Youth Can as we stand for the pledge to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. We recognize that the first time we met, we had a great time.
 First time in my memory.
 I memorized the scripture that I want to use today. It's an easy scripture, and it fits in sort of the lazy, daisy, hazy summer days that Buffalo is in where everybody's on vacation, and so the city empties out, the folk's gone. But what happened was 1,600 people decided to make their vacation on Buffalo, New York, and some of them in Blue Shirts are with us today, from Eight Days of Hope.
 It's the welcoming to the city of Buffalo. Great place to vacation. I mean seriously. Others places nothing like this city. And I'm told by one of the council members that University District is the vacationing hub of Buffalo. Am I right? Congratulations Mr. Wyatt.
 The vacation hub is the University District and to watch the news coverage has been just wonderful. It's been amazing to me. One of the firefighters yesterday interviewed who said they were coming at 8.30 to do my roof so I got on my roof at 8 o'clock to be there before they got there. A lady I heard at the news today who'd lost a roof and pipes had frozen and she'd had to close down the daycare that she was doing and she just lost her roof.
 bubbled over with excitement and gratitude. It reminded me that sometimes a little catalyst from the outside, those vacation cars that are coming in with blue shirts and invading the city, with the phrase on the shirt, eight days of hope. I think I can assure you, Steve, that the hope that your group is bringing in will outlive eight days.
 You're leaving a deposit, and I believe there's going to be proof of the harvest of that seed, council member, for a generation to come. I think that's thrilling. And to know, my understanding is that next year...
 Picking another district to vacation in and three... Is this the Mass Connection? I don't know, but I... Oh, oh! That was the invitation for them to do that. To know that that's happening creates life and hope and excitement throughout the entire city. So the scripture the Lord gave me is Acts 8.8. It's an easy one. The gospel, the good news, had come and invaded all kinds of places outside Jerusalem as the church moved out. And this is Acts 8.8. So there was great joy in that city.
 So there was great joy in that. Father, thank you so much for your goodness. We welcome these servants into our midst.
 Thank you for 1,600 volunteers from 32 states and from Canada. Thank you that they've come here at personal sacrifice. Thank you that they're investing in our city and that they're starting in University District. Thank you, Father, for the overflow from what they're doing. Thank you that locals out of the 1,600 number over 1,000.
 of those who are locals that said, hey, we're ready to work on our city too. It's not just outsiders coming in, it's outsiders and insiders pairing together to make Buffalo, New York better.
 That makes for eight days of hope. Thank you for the joy that's coming to the city. Thank you for the news coverage that's been so exceptional and remarkable. Thank you for safety and great weather. Thank you for projects accomplished, more projects than they even expected. Thank you for more volunteers that are allowing them to do more homes. Bless them. Bless every homeowner. Bless our city. As servants rise up and carry the name of Christ into neighborhoods that have felt hopeless at times.
 And suddenly, eight days of hope arrives, and hope is released. Now, Lord, bless this council session with your presence. And thank you that there's great joy in our city in your name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.
 Thank you Mr. President. I'd like us to remember Catherine Lysak, known as Kitty. You know her Mr. President. That's Frank Lysak's wife. They were so active in the waterfront communities. Lovely people, beautiful people.
 And Kitty was a registered nurse, worked for over three decades in nursing in the city of Buffalo. But she was also a volunteer. She volunteered with the Junior League and she volunteered for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, raised a lot of money for both of those organizations. She was always very, very cheery. I had known that she had been quick the last year and a half, so the real loss to the Buffalo community.
 and I also like to remember Diane Keppel she was a resident of Seneca Babcock and with her husband Denny who passed away just a couple of years ago his wife Diane passed away she was very active with the Seneca Babcock Block Club and Diane Keppel thank you sir council member Golombe
 Thank you Mr. President. Also I'd like to offer my condolences to Frank Lysiak and the passing of his wife. I got to meet them back in 2012 and just a very, very nice, delightful couple. Shocking, I don't know if anyone here knew Chrissy Parker, Chrissy Castro Parker. She was a former student of mine, she was only my age.
 uh... non-traditional student uh... i first met her years ago she owned a small business downtown a little gift shop and uh... when she was my student she said to me she goes oh i met you a couple times before and she told me i said and i remembered when she went on and explained it but uh... uh... she was very very active in uh... buffalo state college she was active in local history
 uh... in particular with african-american history she's going to be very very uh... sorely missed by her family and friends uh... renee quackenbush neff passed away she was a former riverside resident uh... uh... she's going to be very very sorely missed by her family and her friends in particular her husband jeff and uh...
 Sorry, Jim, Jim Neff. And last but certainly not least, Irene Kristic. She was a former first lady at the Croatian club. She passed away. She was in her 80s. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her husband, her children, and the extended Croatian family. Although she wasn't Croatian, she would always say, but she was married into it. That's right. Why? Why?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Asking for the prayers for my family, we lost a great man, Willie Jamison, who Council President Pritchard knows. Him and his brothers moved to Buffalo many years ago. He was 93 years old. And I can say that if it wasn't for the Jamison family, I would probably have not come to Christ and met this great man. So I'm thankful to him and his life, and we just keep them in prayer as well. As well as another family member, Aunt Muriel lost her husband, Clarence Adams.
 who was a 47-year police officer with the Buffalo Police Department. So we just keep them in prayer. Thank you. Any others? Hearing none, we're glad to report that we don't know of any of our soldiers who have lost their lives, but for anyone who lost their life protecting the freedom of other countries or our country, we now pause in these chambers for all of the names that have been spoken for a moment of silence.
 thank you maybe see well I don't believe all of the blue shirts are here because they're so interested in the council meeting so we will they share with you to councilmember Rasheed in C wire thank you mr. president have the
 incredible people from eight days of hope come down please as well as Lynn Jackson from M&T if you would just please all come down many of you probably never heard about the hope until this year and you probably heard a little bit bottom earlier in May and excuse me early in March and 8 but this month you probably heard so much about him you're like who is this group and
 And it's led by a gentleman to my right, Steve Tiber, and his incredible, and I got to go back to his dad because that's where the seed started, the disaster in New Orleans. And they took upon an effort that would change the lives of many. And they are doing such a tremendous job in the university district.
 and yesterday I was able to go to the worship service with them and I heard from person and family after family about the ways that Hope has made and you know we in Council always like to put brick and mortar things up like the big buildings but in some cases there are people who are struggling that are outside the lines for us to get grants and those things and those people struggle in the dark and I can talk about one lady, Mrs. Comerford
 29 years in the military, could not get alone to Ruth. Eight days of hope has come and rescued her. And they've rescued her not by themselves. They have 1,600 people who have come to the city and volunteered. As a matter of fact, there's a couple, Rita and Dan, who came from Michigan, just got married. And they decided, we're not going to go on a honeymoon. We're going to go to Buffalo to help people. To love and serve.
 And believe it or not, there's many more stories like that. People who have come from California, flew to California, to Buffalo. And you know that ticket is expensive, right? There's no cheap ticket. And they come to love and serve. So I just can't say enough about this organization
 and this gentleman to my right and those volunteers. And I ask my staff to come down as well because we were all part of doing something incredible in the city of Buffalo that I hope was just this is a seat that we're planning that others will be able to benefit because this is what the city of good neighbors does, but this is what God does. So I want to thank Steve Tiber and his family in eight days of hope for this incredible, incredible impact in the university district. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 On behalf of the 152 volunteer leaders who live in 31 states and the 1,600 volunteers who decided to come to Buffalo, it has been a joy to love and serve families in need. This is the first time we've done anything like this, and we are believing that the doors have opened up for us to do this year after year. I want to just say a couple quick thank yous. First of all, I want to thank the mayor, the council, all the leaders.
 City of Buffalo, the Parks Department, the inspectors, the garbage, the people who take care of trash. We have worked from Hawaii last year when the volcanoes erupted, Hurricane Michael, Florence, Harvey last year was a busy year. This has been the easiest place
 to work with. You have removed obstacle after obstacle to allow us to do what God called us to do. What's interesting about Eight Days of Hope, we're interdenominational. So it's the body of Christ. Different ethnic backgrounds, different denominations from around the country wanting to love and serve families in need. I want to thank publicly my friend, my new friend, Councilman White and his team are outstanding. Outstanding.
 unbelievable I mean you are outstanding we could not do it without the resource and care we want to thank our 55 local churches of different denominations who have volunteers here with eight days of hope I want to thank people who travel from far from up close I want to thank our partners our sponsor we could not do this unless somebody said we've got your back
 We can't do it alone. We were not going to bring dollars raised for Hurricane Harvey, or even last week we were in Louisiana with Hurricane Barry, to Buffalo, New York. And we met with this organization. Within 48 hours, they said, we want to partner with you. And so I just publicly want to thank M&T Bank. I banked at M&T Bank 40 years ago. I bank with them. I'm thankful for their partnership. Thank you.
 Next year, get ready, Buffalo. I believe, and I'm always, everyone says you're so aggressive. I've always been on the low side, but I believe. Thank you, Councilman. M&T Bank and the 55 other leaders. Thank you.
 And I want to give M&T Bank an opportunity because, again, you know, we talk about banks in our community and their impact on our community. And M&T, I've had numerous conversations with M&T, and M&T is doing a tremendous job. But I think this by far tops it off. So I want to give them an opportunity to talk and talk.
 Thank you. First of all, I want to thank everyone here. I certainly want to thank Council President Fridgen. I come in here and it feels like family in a weird way. So many familiar faces, the work that we're doing. At MNT, we believe if our community succeeds, we succeed. Me as a human being, I believe if our community succeeds, we succeed. I think everyone in this room would agree if our community succeeds.
 That's what this was. I've never seen anything quite like this. People coming together. People would think that's often what that's about. To come here, travel thousands of miles to help activate in a community that actually needs it and conversations day to day is absolutely fascinating. So on behalf of the bank, that's not just a convenient slogan. That's really what we believe.
 And we've been here. We're going to continue to be here. I don't know if you made a promise for us or not on what next year is going to look like. As excited as I am, and we are at M&T Bank for what has happened, what's happening right now on the streets of the University District. We're excited about the renaissance that's happening in Buffalo. What I was nervous about personally was when you think about the renaissance in Buffalo, who are we forgetting?
 right? Is it inclusive? Are we working together that maybe weren't brought forward before? And this makes it inclusive. And this is an effort that I can see us going forward with to make change and effect positive change for our community. So, on behalf of NC, thank you. Rasheed, for your tireless work. A round of applause for Rasheed White and what he's doing here. A round of applause for the beautiful people here. Steve Seibor, his team. It's absolutely incredible.
 And folks, give yourselves a round of applause because what's happening here I've not seen anywhere else. And to see people activate across colors, lines, denominations to be able to do this together is absolutely fantastic. Thank you for all you're doing. I'm really excited about what we're going to continue to do, though.
 Wherever they're at next year, I want to be like the little kid who I saw on the news. He was jumping in the back of the dirt and he was pushing all the dirt down with his body. I mean, that's just the boss job right there. I want to lay in the dirt truck and push it out. Thank you, Eight Days of Hope, for being so incredible and being in our city. Let's thank him one more time. Thank you.
 All right. I wish we could just go to dismissal now. Just hit the gavel and go home. That's good stuff. All right. We'll give them a second to exit on a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Mr. Scanlon. The minutes of the stated meeting held on July 9th, 2019 are approved. All late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Hearing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not been able to review an item. I do believe we are coming out of order. Mr. President, motion to take items 77 and 78 out of order. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 77, Dish Charge 19-1062, Joe Joseph Tower, LLC, Pilot. Motion to adopt items 77 and 78. Second by Council Member Farrell. Mr. Chairman, motion to take items 1 and 11 from submission out of order. Take 1 and 11. Okay, second by Council Member Golombet.
 item number one out of civil service appoint Commissioner of Public Works parks and streets items all right this item is before us and the I don't know your title right now the acting commissioner is with us councilmembers this item is open is there any questions any comments comes from what yep yep
 motion to approve and appoint Mike Finn all right and move by councilmember Wyatt second by councilman of the Lombard you want to do a voice vote voice vote all of the council council member Farrell little councilmember franzek Michael Finn councilmember go on back Michael Finn council president Bridget Michael Finn majority leader Rivera Michael Finn
 Council Pro Temp, Council Member Scanlon. Michael Finn. Council Member Wingo. Michael J. Finn, P.E. Council Member Wyatt. Michael J. Finn. It is unanimous. Welcome to the... Applause Applause
 and if anyone here is pictures please feel free to come close close as you can I'm Michael J Finn
 You solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Commissioner of the City of Buffalo, according to the best of my ability. Welcome to the...
 Thank you.
 I just want to take this opportunity to recognize both the Common Council and the Mayor for their support with me. And I also want to thank, most importantly, my family. My parents are here today with my son, good friends of mine, the Panapantos, and most importantly my wife Ashley. Without all their support I wouldn't be able to do this. So thank you. Thank you everyone. Can we have your parents come down and take a picture? Can we have your parents come down and take a picture? Can we have your parents come down and take a picture? Can we have your parents come down and take a picture?
 Let the parents come down with the children, take a picture. We want to make sure that this is chronicled for history. Cannot miss this moment. I heard Deidre coming down. I thought she was in your family. You all resemble each other. Wonderful, wonderful.
 good news and I know that the Finn family would love to stay for the entire meeting but we do understand it and we'll see you at another time thank you for being here all right all right the development item number 11 public here for longship parts of motion open the public hearing motion to public open the public here second by councilmember friends at the if there is anyone here to speak on this item all right
 If there is no one to speak on the item, motion to close. Motion to close public hearing. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. On the item, I did have a question earlier, and I did meet with folks from Harbor Development and did find that there was actually an appraisal, saw the exact appraisal,
 also understand that the place will be open with public restrooms which is in addition to that area and we discussed tying in canal side with the Michigan Street corridor as far as signage so that when you're in the corridor you have directions to the african-american heritage corridor which is right around the corner and if you're in canal side you have directions
 back to that African American heritage corridor. It was accepted on that suggestion, and so we'll follow up with that so that we tie those two historical areas together and not make it one and done when people come to our city. So that's very important, and they agreed on it. So I'm happy to support it.
 Next item? Did you have anything, Councilman Fransman? No, no. I think it's a great project, and I'm glad you have those addendums to attach to it. It'll be a good educational tool, but also something that'll be, I think, entertaining and fun for people as well. Absolutely. Thank you, sir.
 all right item number one climate resilience planning grant resolution motion to approve items one through eight second by councilmember wing oh item number nine controllers response to Buffalo's current fiscal stability motion to send finance councilmember
 Item number 10, Interfund Loan Niagara Street Phase 3. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fierletto. Item number 11, Appoint Deputy Controller. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 12, Appointment of Deputy City Clerk. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 13, Approval to Extend Contract with Personal Computers. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 14, Notification Serial 11. Motion to approve.
 278 install motion to receive and file stick with councilmember the Lombok item number 15 african-american cultural center phase 2 environmental motion to approve items 15 through 32 say my counselor Wingo
 Item number 33, appoint General Mechanic. Motion to send to Civil Service, items 33 through 36. Second by Councilmember Franzek. Item number 37, drug asset forfeiture wire transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Franzek. Item number 38, permission to accept 2019 gun-involved violence. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item number 40, appoint Fire Lieutenant. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember White.
 41, appoint special assistance, a fire commissioner. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Brooks, I'm Scanlon. Item number 42, dance hall license, pro group. Motion to approve items 42 through 45. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item number 46, property manager license. Motion to send legislation, items 46 and 47. Seconded by Council Member Fierlito. Item number 48, sidewalk cafe license, 601 Main Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White.
 item number 49 appoint supervisor a building construction ocean to send the civil service second by council member Wingo and a number 50 purchase an auction scrap of vehicles and equipment motion to approve items 50 through 52 so my cousin or the lumber item number 53 appoint senior account clerk paper
 Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 54, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 54 through 58. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 59, notice of appointment.
 motion to adapt single by councilmember friends at item number 60 notices of appointment motion to send civil service setting by councilmember friends I had a number 61 notices of appointment season off line motion to receive and file it
 my councilmember Wingo I don't number 62 naming a city park to memorialize Anthony Leach Douglas ocean ascend the CD my councilmember Wingo and a number 63 letter letters of opposition to beering 249 Alice Street motion send legislation second by councilman fair little I don't number 64 2019 in your report motion to receive and file item 64 and 65 my councilman for 11 a day
 Item number 66, moving customs inspections to Canadian side at Peace Bridge. Motion to send to CD item 66 and 67. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 68, petition for a traffic study at Hurdle and Elmwood. Motion to send to CD, DPW, and the Mayor's Office. Seconded by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor.
 Thank you Mr. President. I want to commend the West Hurdle Association, Margaret Chypaniuk and others. They were able to collect about 500 letters calling for a traffic study at the Hurdle and Elmwood neighborhood. I'd like to see it expanded more so also to include the Elmwood neighborhood.
 Elmwood Amherst in the Grant Amherst neighborhood. You know with the development that's been going on on Chandler Street, with the other development that Rocco Termini's done, with Uniland, and with a lot of the other proposed and current development,
 I'd like to see us address this earlier rather than later when all of a sudden people say, oh my gosh, there's 25,000, 30,000 cars a day. You know, there's traffic congestion. What are we going to do here? So I'm hoping that DPW and the mayor will seriously consider doing an all-inclusive traffic study for that entire neighborhood. Thank you, sir. Next item.
 item number 69 petition for special parking permission at 296 so BF key motion to send to legislation city planning board item 69 through 71 say my comes over friends at civil service item number two appoint member a commission on citizen rights and community relations motion to approve items number two three four and five all right second by councilmember beer I don't ever six notices of appointment
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Revere. Finance. Item number seven, proposed agreement between City of Buffalo and Buffalo Olmstead Parks Conservancy. Motion to approve seven, eight, and nine. Second by Council Member Wingo. Community Development. Item number ten, Beverly Great Business Exchange Center. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item number twelve, permission to accept grant. Is there a public hearing with this?
 So we accept the grant? No. Mr. Grant? It was in committee, so it came out of committee as approved. Yeah, we approve. Motion to approve item number 11. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 no this is 12 we did 11 already so 11 I'm sorry number 12 that was my apology council member second by council member Wingo item number 13 public health outreach concerns motion to receive and file 13 14 and 15 second by council member Fierlittle item number 16 Joe Joseph tower LLC pilot
 these are unmarked the district representative we can approve it okay there is no I'm sorry there's no public speaking at a council meeting unless it's a special circumstance we need to find out first what's going on and why this is here
 All right, so the place, just so that we can understand the place that we have deliberations on these items is in committee, because I don't want to start the precedent of the public speaking in the council meetings when this should be discussed in the committee. The 16 is from the Office of Strategic Planning. We have Corporation Council just let us know why this is being discharged, if you have any idea. Thank you.
 Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. No, I'm not sure why it's being discharged. So Council Members, state it for the record right on the mic so that we understand and the public understand. The annual action plan amendments I believe was after because we had the workshops after the meeting and then basically it's time sensitive so that's why they need to get it down for HUD funding. I think the question is on 16.
 that's property manager license and I believe that was just for an approval and went to committee and so is the chair chairman so this is okay you okay with I'm fine with it if the district council all right so let's let's act upon item 16 just so that we pull all these out read item 16 again and get item 16 Jill Joseph Howard LLC pilot all right what's the motion
 motion to approve second by councilman friends at item number 17 annual action plan amendment I believe that one we could approve as well mm-hmm yes both of them gonna prove them both yes seven seventeen and eighteen seventeen eighteen second by councilmember fair little thank you for the explanation
 legislation item number 19 full store license 1538 Broadway motion to approve items 19 and 20 second by councilmember wingle item number 21 zone and map amendment 709 Amherst that item urgent came without recommendation the motion is now to approve second by councilmember Wyatt
 Item number 22, special use 299, aka 301, Parkside. Motion to approve item 22 and 23. Second by Councilmember Fairlam. Item number 24, special use 2131, Seneca. I refer to the District Councilmember for the purpose of a motion. Motion is to deny item 24 based on inconsistency with and nonconformity to the Unified Development Ordinance, in particular chapter 11.3.3-E.
 in the approval standards associated with the granting of a special use permit. Thank you, sir. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. I'm going to state this again. Discussion happens in committee meeting. It does not happen in the council meeting. Unfortunately, you can speak to a clerk. I'm going to say this one more time, ma'am. Unfortunately, and we'll have somebody from the clerk's office come to speak to you, it is not the rules of the council that the public speaks at the meeting. So please send someone over. Next item.
 Item number 25, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 175. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fira Leto. Item number 26, special use for 3053 Main Street for a tavern. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Wyatt, who will submit the conditions to the record. Okay.
 Okay. Item number 27, zone and map amendment 139, 145, 151, 157 Buffalo River and 23 Lott Lane.
 Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 28, 1911 Seneca for tobacco sales. And I refer to the District Council Member for the purposes of a motion. All right. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. My motion is to deny item number 28 based on inconsistency with and nonconformity to the Unified Development Ordinance, in particular Chapter 11.3.3-E and the approval standards associated with granting a special use permit.
 second by council member scan item number 20 I'm sorry you made the motion second by councilman friends I don't know 29 food store license 2272 Seneca that item originally came without recommendation the motion is now to recommit second by council members game claims committee item number 30 chantal Burton 25,000 motion to approve item 30 through and including 74
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Wingo Hesford. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just one brief statement regarding item number 41. Yes, sir. When an individual is wrongfully charged for a crime, I believe there should be more follow-up with the individuals who wrongfully accused this individual. Now, in this particular case,
 the individual who was initially responsible for the wrongful incarceration of this young man has since retired. But had he still been on the department, still working with the police department, I think there should be, moving forward, some type of...
 investigation as to see why that actually happened so that we can curtail this from happening in the future and even though this situation has been settled I still believe that there's something there there's something that has to be done regarding the wrongful incarceration of people period especially when the folks who
 are responsible for the wrongful incarceration of these individuals are still employed.
 In this instance, the person has retired. But I would definitely like to see something in the future regarding if the individual is still employed with the department or with an agency, there's some type of follow-up investigation on that individual on how that actually happened. Maybe that can serve as a disincentive for folks just to frivolously attack you because of the color of the skin or whatever other bias that they have regarding an individual. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay.
 Councilman Wyatt has asked several times to have follow-ups so that we know if there was any retraining or that kind of thing, regardless of what department it is. We're playing out a claim that we can make sure that there is some follow-up. Okay. Number? Next item. Item number 75, claims committee agenda. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Resolutions. Item number 72, period project day fee waiver. Motion to approve. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. No, we approved all the way through 74 right there. I don't know why it says so. All right, next item. Item number 73, support Buffalo and Erie County Naval and Military Park. Motion to adopt items 73 and 75. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak. Item number 76, Trailblazing Final, Genesee Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak.
 item number 79 renamed Riverside Branch Library motion to the second by councilmember Golomba which one did you all right so 79 is actually going to lay 79 is going so let's rescind the motion to adopt second by councilman Wingo and now this the motion is to send the legislation by councilmember Lomba
 item number 80 councilmember Fontana excused from meeting motion to adapt like my counselor what item number 81 fee waiver resolution for the ninth annual stop the violence memorial celebration motion to approve item 81 through 86 second by councilmember Wingo item number 87 ordinance amendment chapter 454 tow truck motion send legislation on the legislation second by councilmember Wyatt
 item number 88 true community development broadway owners alliances motion to adopt uh i need to be recused from this item and motion to recuse council president second by council member wingo and then the motion is to adopt so she needs to adopt second by council member why item number 89 condemnation of the president of the united states of america's racism
 Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Mr. Chairman. Council Member Revere. This resolution is to denounce the racist remarks and xenophobic remarks that the President made against four women of color, three of which were born here in the United States. He said in one of his tweets that they should go back to the country where they came from. This kind of
 hatred and racism cannot go uncontested. It cannot be normalized, trivialized. We need to speak out when elected officials make those kinds of statements. And we as a body and every legislative body
 In Erie County, the state of New York and across this country should do the same. We should not legitimize those types of comments. It sows hatred and fear in people. It appeals to people's worst basic instincts.
 and it is scary that the President of the United States could put people at harm by making those kinds of comments. So today, I ask every legislative body in Erie County across the state to speak on behalf of all those immigrants and refugees. The United States is a country of immigrants. Buffalo was driven by immigrants in the 1800s from settlers from Ireland.
 And early part of the century when settlers, when people from Western Europe, Italian Americans came here. So today where you have Somalis, Burmese, Bhutanese, every nationality that comes here, that drives and helped drive our economy. We should not normalize that kind of behavior unless from the President of the United States.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Can you please add me to the resolution? Council Member White is asking to be added to the resolution. Council Member Wingo is asking to be added to the resolution. Great work. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 90, fee waiver for Castro Family Picnic. Motion to approve items 90 through 95. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 96, the City of Buffalo Poet Lorette. Motion to adopt.
 singing by President Procter & Scanlon. Roses are red. Violets are blue. Councilman Wingo is thinking of you. Now consider that my application for... Is that your application?
 very deep thought from probably one of the deepest thinkers on this council who has a vocabulary that is extensive of roses are red council member wingo you have the floor he's gonna have to beat Sean Mulligan because he came in and did a haiku earlier today in the office so thank you council president bridgen and thank you councilman franzek for that relief but I want to just thank all of my colleagues for
 uh... seeing necessary passing the need to adapt this uh... resolution because i do believe that uh... we need someone who could be uh... the voice
 and use that poetic expression for some of our major events in the City of Buffalo to speak to some of the issues poetically because again this is universal language, art is a universal language and I think it's very important to use art in this way to ensure that the world knows that the City of Buffalo takes art seriously and we've gotten a lot of positive feedback
 from the community thus far regarding this poet laureate because it is a bold move, it's a progressive move by the city to actually have someone who will speak poetically and share the sentiments of the community. And the young lady, I have to give her credit, her name is Jillian Hainsworth.
 her aunt sits up here but I have to give her credit Jillian Hainsworth when she was interviewed by one of our local television stations was asked the question how do you prepare for your poetry I had an event that she spoke at that had to do a lot with women empowerment of which a piece of that was recorded and put on the
 the TV piece introducing that segment. And she asked her, how do you prepare for your pieces? And her response was, the first thing I do is I go and I ask people how they feel about certain issues because I want my piece to be reflective of not just what I feel, but what everyone feels. And she talked about how the position to be someone who advocates for something,
 I really respect this young lady and her desire to ensure that it's not just a position to show off how you can wax poetry.
 But yet it's a position of a person who is advocating for something. She said whether it be fighting for people of color, whether it be fighting for women's rights, whatever your agenda is, she said she just wants whoever assumes this position with the city of Buffalo to advocate for somebody or for someone or for something. I think that is very commendable.
 i commend jillian hainsworth for bringing this to to my office i appreciate for bringing it to my office i'm humbled by the fact that you thought that we could do this
 here in the city of Buffalo. So thank you to all of my colleagues for allowing us to adopt this resolution, and I'm looking forward to working with our Commissioner of Arts, Mr. Barr, to ensure that this actually comes to fruition. Again, thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Franczak. Yes, thanks, Mr. President. I believe the United States had poet laureates, Robert Frost, Maya Angelou. In countries where democracy does not exist...
 poets are extremely important in voices of resistance and raising consciousness in countries where there are dictatorships. They actually arrest and silence poets. In the Ukraine,
 Stalin murdered the Ukrainian by like a players who would sing with poetry the story of Ukrainian people and he actually had them executed they were killed and so in many countries even till this day people people are arrested and killed for poetry poetry in
 in many ways is more important in other parts of the world than the United States. You know, you don't hear people talk a lot about poetry. But even in our Buffalo tradition, I remember knowing some poets on the East Side, writing about the East Side. I remember Manny Freed, who passed away, he was a brilliant man, who had wrote plays in Buffalo about the working class, and he approached me once about
 whether the House and Un-American Activities Committee had information on him, and Commissioner Kurlikowski, the police commissioner, said, well, we didn't have anything. If we did, we'd give it to him. He sponsored poets all the time, and I remember him sponsoring a gentleman that I mentioned in our In Memoriam section a few months ago. Phil Pawlowski lived on Quincy Street in Broadway Beltline, and he would write poets about the East Side for years.
 And I was glad that his poetry and his photographs were saved by Mike Mully, who did a book on the Broadway market recently, a photo book. He's an artist who lives in Allentown. And I went to Phil's house because I knew he wrote all his poetry and I said, gee, I can't, I've got so much stuff at home, I can't take all this stuff.
 And so I'm glad that he took a lot of the poetry, a lot of the writing, a lot of the photographs and things of that nature. So even if you drill down to our communities, you'll find that the head of the poetry room at UB was Mike Byszynski. He was involved with Manny Friedman at that time. So I remember them reading their poetry at soirees on the East Side. But they talked about everyday people, wasn't some...
 something that was esoteric. It was, you know, the lady that was a Rosie the Riveter or the person that they knew or the person that, you know, had to work on the railroad or the person that had a swing shift. In fact, one poem was called I Was a Swing Shift Zombie. I remember seeing that about this guy that, you know, after a swing shift, he'd go to the bars. And so it was about real life and real people. So it does have an important impact in Buffalo. And perhaps Mr. Wingo may want to pursue
 I don't know, maybe the English department saying having a group of people that could have a competition. They submit poetry and they could recommend somebody to the council. I think it's a good thing that Mr. Wingo did that everything we do isn't always, we've got to fix the street, we've got to chop the tree down, we've got to get the drug dealers off the corner. Sometimes it's something that speaks to the soul of the city. Thank you.
 When my, I just got a new computer and I was able to download all the information from my old computer to my new computer when my old computer was retired. I hope when you leave there's a way for you to download all the information that you have in your head to one of us. I volunteer if there's a scientific way because I knew you were going to have facts about that resolution. Thank you for that contribution.
 next item item number 97 trailblazing sign from miss Mary Lee Park motion to approve items 97 98 99 second by councilmember wing oh item 100 Commissioner of the motion to adapt items 100 and 101 and by councilmember Wyatt
 Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, file on civil service, Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development, Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 2 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your district?
 Council Member White? Can we go back to item number 17? Item...
 number 17. excuse me community development motion revisit item 17. second by councilmember wingo there were some additional changes as far as streets can we approve this with conditions or is it too late for that for this particular item well what i mean we could go back but what is the conditions well to add additional streets because i was supposed to be able to add additional streets that be to be um for sidewalks and paving
 Is that out of CDBG money? Are the streets eligible? I thought he just listed every street that was eligible. Well, they were supposed to get back to me on what those streets were. They never got back to me, so I'm just going to add the streets, and then they can decide if they're eligible or not. The only thing I want to be cautious of and make sure for the record is if they are not streets that are eligible, you can put them...
 You can add them that you want them to be considered, but if they're not eligible, they would just fall off. Yeah, that's fine. That's fine. All right. So I just wanted to send a document for that. You don't have them for the record now? No, I can bring it. I wasn't totally sure that this was going to be approved today. All right. So we would have to revisit that item and then put it back before us to approve with the additions. Yes.
 The only question I would have is, was it part of these amendments or the amendments that come in September? The additional funding that comes. I don't know if it was part of those additional amendments that would come down the road. I don't know.
 I'm gonna have come corporation councils speak to assistant corporation comes to Karen Gordon I would say for item number 17 we would approve it with a condition that where possible additional streets that are eligible for this funding would be added to this item number okay for approval
 I'm good with that thank you all right so let's do this then call the item we already you called the item to get it open so we send the former motion to recent the previous motion second by council member what now the motion would be to approve as stated by corporation council I'm not moving all the way back through with a condition that where possible additional streets would be added to item number 17 for approval second
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Any other announcements? Last thing. Regarding the claims, Corporation Council was supposed to add another item for Ms. Chambers. That was not added, so I wanted to know how can we expedite this because I promised that family, that Corporation Council said it would be a late file to the council. It wasn't added.
 I would say in this situation the most we can do if the if the president is obliged next week if we can do a a special session because at this moment I don't know if we can add it on the floor in fact I don't think we might be able to add it on the floor it has not come before the body previously and we don't have any details of I mean if you could provide it now and we can go into it we can't we can't add because it's not on the public agenda even as a late file now yes it's not even there
 we would have to stay here and somebody have to go get it and all that what i would suggest if you accept this we i'm not going to call a meeting next week we probably will have to have a meeting this month
 in August possibly for a union contract and any other little cleanup stuff that we have to do and if we get it into that meeting we could do that but I would say if you had told us earlier I could have got it we could have had corporation council but fine thank you all right anything else all right announcements any announcements for your districts
 Council Member White. I'm hogging the mic. I just want to invite the residents of the University District to our quarterly breakfast, which is going to take place this Saturday at Gloria Park Center from 9 to 12. Please call my office to confirm at 851-5165. But this is our quarterly breakfast. We will have eight days of hope. We would have hopefully someone from Public Works to speak to the
 regarding the speed humps that we're proposing at the breakfast. So we hope that you'll get in contact with us for this quarterly breakfast at Gloria Parks.
 Thank you. Any other announcements? This being our last meeting, scheduled meeting for the recess and we have one committee meeting left before we go on recess and possibly council members we may have to have a very short meeting somewhere in the middle of the month but we'll let you know how those negotiations are going. Alright? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Wingo.