Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franczak. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgin. At key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Foreign President. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Howard Chaplin, Reverend Al Warner. Mr. President, it would appear from all those assembled that they all want to see us before we go on break next month. And so we've become the most popular spot in City Hall today. As we gather, there are certainly some serious prayer points. There's going to be a special remembrance for young Ryan Nicole Davis and Dr.
 A prayer, I believe, of protection for the children of our city during the summertime is absolutely essential. The hit runs have been happening that several of you have addressed publicly. I think we need to legalize or the police be able to find those if possible. I was given a few thoughts from...
 Young Ryan's grandfather, Leonard Lane, who retired firefighter, president of the Fathers Not for Profit, said this of the tragic death of his granddaughter. We just have to hold tight to our children. If you have children, you just have to hold them tight. Love them now. They're a gift from God. And we've got to treasure it. It's interesting that those words come from Psalm 127 that talks about the strength of a city
 It says, children are a gift from the Lord, they're a reward from him. Children born to a young man are like arrows in a warrior's hand. How joyful is the man whose quiver is full of them. He'll not be put to shame when he confronts his accusers at the city gate. There's a scriptural promise around children as gifts and treasures.
 And tragedy happens when those treasures are stolen from us. So I want to pray for those families that are grieving, but I want to pray even now proactively for safety of our children this summer season. Would you join me? Father, right now we lift up the family that we're focusing on today, the Davis family. We thank, Lord, a loss and tragedy that has happened to way too many families in this city. And some are especially vulnerable as children are playing outside on the sidewalks of neighborhood after neighborhood.
 Lord, I ask your supreme protection over the children. Lord, the next generation and the next generation among us, extra protection, divine and supernatural on their behalf. I lift up the recent state of hit and runs and arrests still to be made. Lord, we want the streets of this city to be safe. And for those who bring safety, we ask that they have eagle eyes as they look at these situations.
 protect the citizens, young and old, of Buffalo, New York. Thank you that your scripture gives great promises. We join our hearts and prayers with your promises for the future of this city, generation upon generation upon generation. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Council Members Moritz, Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. President. We did just hear from our chaplain, Al Warner, regarding the death of Ryan Crowe Davis. She was 20 months old when she died. She's been gone from our presence for a year this month.
 Lenny Lane is a community activist, he is a community advocate, he does a lot of work in the community and we just want that family, the Davis family and the Lane family to know that they are cannot thoughts and prayers, who have forever cherished Little Ryan's memory. We will also continue to do the work that will be pleasing not just to God but to the community at large of itself. I would just like to remind the community that we need to be diligent in our efforts as our children are playing over the summer.
 to not allow them to play in the streets where we have high traffic and also even in the parks. I would like to also ask our city residents to not drive in areas that are designated for people. It is very important for us to ensure that the grass maintains a good quality
 a safe place for people to walk and not worry about vehicles. I would also ask, I know this is a memorial period, but I would not like to see any more tragedies happen in the city of Buffalo. I would also like to ask all of the residents in the city of Buffalo not to drive in or park on the sidewalks.
 Again, areas that are designated for pedestrians. We would like for this never to have happened, but in the long run, we want to make sure that everyone is being safe and being very, very diligent and cognizant of the fact that we have little people playing, and that's what little people do. Children play, and we want them to be safe while they're playing. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Glumberg?
 Thank you, Mr. President. We lost Donald Pavlik, a Marine, Korean veteran, just missed out on the greatest generation by a couple of years. He was very active at the AMVETS post on –
 The American Legion poster, rather, on Amber Street. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. Thomas Delstad passed away, a longtime Riverside and Black Rock resident. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his daughter, Robin.
 And last but certainly not least, Anne Obermeyer. Anne was a fixture at our monthly breakfasts that we do at the Polish Cadets. She's leaving behind her husband, Bill, and she's the stepmother-in-law of our own Peter Merlo. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends in Black Rock.
 Thank you. Mr. White? I heard our condolences go out to George Morey, who is the Block Club president for Millicent Avenue, and the passing of his wife, Carol Morey, on Saturday, July 8th. Mr. Brother Morey is a regular attendee of our breakfasts, and we just have our extreme condolences to him and his family.
 Commissioner Wingo. Apologies, Mr. Chair, but I would just like to just piggyback on what Mr. Wyatt has just said regarding Carolyn Morey. She was a great friend to the Wingo family. George Morey helped us remodel our house. They are upstanding citizens. They were very active in their block clubs. They are very active in their church. Just great, great people. And we did drive
 draft a resolution, a memoriam for the Morey family at the home going celebration of Carolyn. But I just cannot express how deeply moved and how much Carolyn will be missed by the city of Buffalo and by, I'm pretty sure, George Morey.
 her husband. They are in our thoughts and in our prayers, and I cannot imagine, I don't want to imagine what he's going through at this point, but we just continue to keep him lifted in prayer. Thank you, Mr. Perry. All right. Hearing no others, we also remember our men and women across this world who are fighting for the freedom of not only our country, but for others around the world. We pause for a moment of silence.
 Council member Scanlon. Thank you Mr. President. Yes sir. Good afternoon everyone. As council members on a day to day basis we come in contact with countless people throughout the building and every so often you encounter an employee whose combination of work ethic and knowledge and commitment really can be a great help.
 boost the morale and effectiveness of an entire department. And we have one of those people with us today. So if I could, I'd like to ask Maria Garza-Pain and her husband, Russell, to please come down. She has no idea. Clearly she had no idea she was coming up here today.
 Honestly, anyone who's here in chambers or maybe watching at home who's encountered Maria, whether it be in person, on the telephone, via email, or one of the many, many community meetings she's attended over her three plus decades working here, can tell you that those characteristics that I mentioned are absolutely true. And I want to thank you on behalf of myself, the other council members, and our predecessors for everything that you've done for the city of Buffalo.
 Because of that, we have this proclamation that I'd like to read. Maria Groza Payne began her outstanding career with the city of Buffalo on January 3, 1984, as a legislative aide serving the constituents of the Delaware District for nearly six years. She then joined the Department of Assessment and Taxation as an assessor trainee. Her exceptional work ethic was quickly recognized, allowing her to be promoted to the position of real property appraiser.
 before accepting yet another promotion a year later to assessor, ultimately preparing her for her final position as principal assessor. Throughout her career, Maria has helped thousands of property owners obtain their senior citizen, veteran, basic star, and enhanced star exemptions, offering the same assistance to disabled homeowners and providing vast knowledge and guidance to the many developers who came to her for assistance with their proposed project.
 Maria has gained the highest respect of not only the members of the Department of Assessment and Taxation, but her many associates throughout the city of Buffalo and Erie County, all of whom rely on her immediate assistance that is given freely and always accompanied with a clear, concise, and well-founded resolution. Thank you.
 So now, therefore, we members of the City of Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that Maria Garoz de Payne has distinguished herself with exceptional work habits, and on behalf of the property owners of the city, we offer our most heartfelt congratulations on her retirement after 34 years of dedication and loving service and extend our wishes for many years of health and happiness. Thank you.
 And just on a personal note, honestly, from day one that I started here, Maria has just been an absolute wealth of knowledge and a tool that myself and my staff have relied upon time and time again. So, again, thank you for everything. I don't know if you want to. Thank you so much. I didn't expect this at all. My career started with the Common Council, so I really am a character. Okay.
 Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to say when I started here, Maria started around the same time, but she was working for then-Councilmember Al Capone on the Delaware District. And so we got in. My staff was Greg Olma and Andy Gombieski, so we all came in. I remember your office was next door, so we often went to you for advice. What are we supposed to do? I mean, how is this place supposed to work? And she always steered us in the right direction. Later, she was known for the assessment, but my first...
 A pleasant experience with Maria was with her work with the Common Council. And now, Council Member Franzek has the floor. And Council Member Golombek. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're here with Council Member Golombek.
 Guest of honor in the presentation standing in the middle here is Mr. Yuri Hrstyshtyn, who many people know. We'll get to his Ukrainian activism in a minute because he's a super Ukrainian activist. But he's very well known for his community-mindedness and activism. He lives in the South District, but he's always planting trees. He's always working. He's involved with block clubs.
 He's helped with many projects in the Fillmore, or I know he was working in the Fillmore District, the central terminal. He's on that board. I'm sure he's quite involved. He lived right on the Buffalo River, South Buffalo. He's very community-minded, but he's always working. But he's also a very active...
 Ukrainian activists in the city of Buffalo, not only at the Dnieper home in Council President Pritchett's district, but also in the North District, there's a center there, and the St. Nicholas Ukrainian Church in my district is very active in the community.
 And so what we would like, and Joe Blumbeck teaches history at Buff State, including Russian, Polish, and Ukrainian history as well, so he's very, very knowledgeable. And over the years, the Ukrainian people have been fighting for their own identity. You know, the interesting thing is that historically people, you know, they were oppressed, yes, by the Poles. The Poles and the Ukrainians did along great in the city of Buffalo these days, but there were tensions.
 The Poles tried dominating them. The Russians certainly tried dominating them. They didn't even call them Ukrainians, they called them Little Russians. We're not Little Russians, we're Ukrainians. We have our own language and tradition. There was tremendous oppression there. Certainly in the interwar period many Ukrainians were killed under Joe Stalin, a lot of them
 of starved forest collectivization. Many Ukrainians came to the United States, certainly the city of Buffalo, where they found homes that they built strong communities. And so 26 years ago they formed an independent nation, which is the independent nations got a fight to keep it. Of course we know
 who's meddling in our elections, we know what the Russians are doing. And certainly they live right next door to Ukraine, so there's actually a shooting war in the eastern Ukraine. So they are independent. We want to see them stay independent. And so we give support to their community, especially here in Buffalo, New York. I will pass the microphone to Professor Golombek for us.
 Thank you, Mr. Franczak. I'm just glad to have the Ukrainian American Civic Association in the neighborhood keeping Ukrainian culture alive in that section of Black Rock. So thank you, Yuri, and to all of your members.
 Mr. President, honorable council members, thank you for the recognition, and thank you for this proclamation, again, recognizing Ukrainian independence on August 24th of this year will be the 26th year.
 I'd like to invite all of you present and watching to celebrate with us on that day, Thursday evening, August 24th, at the Ukrainian-American Civic Center on Military Road in Black Rock. And then also, again, on Sunday afternoon, August 27th, at Ukrainian-American Day,
 on Genesee Street at Nipraw Ukrainian Cultural Center. So thank you very much again for the proclamation, for the recognition, and for your ongoing support. All righty.
 on a motion by mr revere second by mrs scanlon the minutes of stated meeting held on july 11 2017 are approved you have the late files before you are there any objections to any of the late files i know there's quite a bit with this being the last meeting scheduled meeting before recess one to make sure every piece of business is before us
 Hearing no objections, we will proceed with the entire agenda, not taking away your right to object to any of the late files as they come before us. We know that we have a few items out of order. Mr. Chairman, motion to take items 13 and 14 for CD and 86 and 88 out of resolution.
 All right. Those items are before us. Item 13, public hearing or banner approval hurdle right away. Motion to open the public hearing. Seconded by Council Member DeLumbeck. The item is before us. Is there anyone here to be heard on this item? Come down, come to a mic, state your name or the record. Thank you.
 And just as a point of order, because we do have a rather lengthy agenda, I'm going to ask that all speakers would speak three minutes or less on the item to give fairness to other speakers because we have another public hearing in the chambers. Policy is set. Sir? This is the dashes right away item, I hope. Pardon me? This is the dashes right away, sir. Okay, thank you.
 My name is Jim Wozanski. I live in the University District. There are two documents attached to this agenda. One is a resolution for sale approval from Councilman Ferrelletto dated July 11, 2017. The second is a letter from Christy Arnelson dated July 17, 2017. I hope you have a letter from Ms. Pam Landell of the University District and some of the objections she has to this.
 If you don't, you really should read it. Each document, previous to this, names a different appraiser for the subject property. I question which one of these is correct. You have two different appraisers. The statement that this sale is a type 2 action is incorrect. Correct.
 The New York State DEC clearly states, acquisition or sale of public lands by local government is subject to seeker. This is an unlisted action and requires either an EIS or a negative declaration. In order for the Common Council to make the informed decision on this request, the following items should be provided. And these are in Ms. Nelson's document, but there's no substantiation or dispension.
 One, a written purchase request from Dash Properties. Two, a drawing or map showing the property in question. Three, written document from Permits Department enumerating plan deficiencies and violations. Four, written documentation from the Planning Board for the final analysis of the plan. I filed a FOIL on July 14th and still have had...
 Not had any response. I just stopped up in the office and was unable to get any answers. Along with the purchase request from Mr. Joe Dash, I asked for a written statement and documentation from the Office of Strategic Planning Land Use Committee indicating why they have no objections to the abandonment and sale of the right-of-way.
 I asked for a written statement and documentation from the Department of Public Works, Parks and Streets, why they have no objections to the abandonment. This is a big surprise to me. I asked for a written statement and documentation from the Sewer Authority indicating why they have no objections to the abandonment.
 I also ask for evidence why the redevelopment of an existing store and construction of a new market cannot be accommodated within the applicant's existing property depth. In the Christine Nelson document, she states, the acquisition is necessary to accommodate the redevelopment of an existing store and construction of a new state-of-the-art dashes market.
 The requested right-of-way purchase is essential to accommodate the required depth of the new market. Number one, there is no development of an existing store in this project. Number two, there is no required depth. The new co-op, a block away, fit readily inside of its property without going outside of it. The applicant has chosen this depth. There was no requirement for it.
 The applicant is planning a store at Elmwood and Hatch. That property has less depth than is being proposed here. Can you just wrap up your statement? Sorry, the three minutes is up. That's it? That's three minutes. Okay. And most of the information, was any of it new that you've already come before the council and expressed? Was any of that new that you weren't able to share? No.
 I can't was any of the information that you are sharing because you've been before the committee before on dashes is there any new information that you did not get in in your three minutes. Because unfortunately we will not be able to hear the entire document you can submit the document for the record okay. I have some items but I have.
 Good afternoon. My name is Larry Gottesman, and I am a resident of the Crocker Park. The 120-year-old Crocker Park neighborhood runs directly below Hurdle Avenue along the length of Huntington, and it runs pretty much from Starin to Main Street. I'd like to make a few statements. First of all,
 my observations on this. And by the way, this has been the only public hearing regarding the right-of-way. We did not get a public hearing at the planning board. We did not get a public hearing in front of the community development board, nor was there one ever actually declared. So this is a very unusual situation. I appreciate the Common Council's time to come and speak here. I would not have otherwise tied up your time, but this is the way this particular item has been scheduled. I don't fully understand the whys or wherefores, but we're here nonetheless.
 I want to point out there's been in fact no abandonment. Hurdle is an active major arterial and that this location is adjacent to Starin and is a similarly vital pedestrian, transportation and utility corridor. There's even a bus stop located within this right of way. The applicant has already received regulatory relief and a lot,
 with exceeding the allowed maximum by over 300 percent, rear setback by an essentially infinite 9,000 percent, side yard setback by 85 percent, reduction in ground floor front facade fenestration transparency by 14 percent, a complete pass on having rear yard parking allowing side yard parking of over 200 feet instead, and allowing the city's 200 feet of right-of-way to count towards their own parking lot landscaping buffer requirements.
 If the applicant can't achieve its objectives without taking the right-of-way as well, then there's something fundamentally wrong with this application, with this project. The Hurdle Avenue right-of-way is critical to the current infrastructure and to any future improvements or development in North Buffalo. It's right-of-way that would be permanently lost, impacting not only pedestrians, but also the utilities that lie underneath and ultimately the ground transportation.
 I will skip over the history of how the Hurdle Avenue came to be and the loss of Cornelius Creek. But just to summarize, there is a – it's mostly a conduit for our sewer lines. We have two major sewer pipes going through there, and they support the entire drainage for North Buffalo. And, of course, we have all sorts of electric distribution going through that area and communications as well.
 I want to point out, as Mr. Rosansky mentioned, there's been no transparency to allow an informed public hearing on this particular item. Neither the Planning Board nor the Community Development provided any oral or written basis for the recommendation, or in the case of this Community Development, they made no recommendation.
 I also want to point out this is not a Type 2 seeker as claimed by the Office of Strategic Planning in their resolution citing City Code Chapter 168-5B8. This disposition, including sale, lease, or otherwise transfer of city-owned property provided that such parcel is less than 50 acres in size, is a Type 2 action. While this is under 50 acres, it is not a city parcel. It's a right-of-way.
 As such, it could be covered under 168-5B18D, official street map amendments, but it's only for street abandonments which involve unimproved paper streets. It should be subject to at least a short-form environmental assessment. I have a very quick, just two items to add on to this. Similarly, the...
 Neither the city nor its agencies nor the applicant have demonstrated that this project should be granted extraordinary taking of public property. If this project was providing some desperately needed critical service, it might be understandable. The claim made that this store provides vital relief to a food desert is disingenuous. The neighborhood it is located in is one of the city's more affluent, and its residents typically possess their own transportation to allow them to shop throughout the city and region. If this was a genuine attempt at providing food relief, it would be located in the east side or even at Main and Amherst. I'm going to move on to the next speaker. You submit your comments for the record.
 Thank you. Next speaker. Hearing none. Mr. Desire. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Fairlove. Deferred to the District Council Member. Motion is approved. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Next item. Item 14. Public hearing approval of air rights easement over Goodrich. Item is open for public hearing. Item is open for public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Is there anyone here to be heard on this item?
 We can end for the record and talk about the rest.
 Good afternoon. Mark Romanowski, Hopkins Surgeon Romanowski, here on behalf of the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus with respect to this application. I'll keep my comments brief. We've been before the council several times with respect to this. This is really kind of a final piece in an exciting development on the north end of the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus, and it will allow a critical connection, pedestrian connection, between the ongoing newly constructed parking structure and Children's Hospital, which...
 I heard from Clyde it's going to open early, so we're all excited about that. So this will help facilitate that. We've gone through the abandonment process that we've gone through previously with other connectors, and everything with this is consistent with that process, as well as we've received planning board recommendation at their last meeting. Unless the council has any further questions, that's the only comments I have on this application. Anyone else here to be heard on this item? Any comments from the council? No.
 Thank you. Motion closed public hearing. Motion closed public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Approved. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 86 is a discharge item from legislation. Motion to adopt the discharge.
 Motion to adopt the discharge second by Council Member Franzen. Item 88 is discharge item from claims committee. Motion to adopt the discharge. Motion to adopt the discharge second by Council Member Franzen. Can we take one item because I know we have folks here from Roswell that have to get back to healing folks. I want to take if we can. Do we have to receive and file the first item before we take 100? Yes.
 All right. Can we take item 100 out of order? Motion to take item 100 out of order. All right. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Pardon me, Mr. Memmich. Chapter 399, smoking. This is item which would ban smoking in public parks except...
 in designated areas. I want to thank all of my colleagues for support and also Roswell. I know there's some folks here from Roswell who actually brought this to light, that the city of Buffalo did not have a smoking policy as it relates to our parks.
 And so Roswell wanted to put up some signs when we found out that there was no policy at all. This is what really started these wheels to turning. And so we hope to get immediate signage of this from the mayor so that this can become law as we are enjoying what should be a healthy experience in our city parks. Thank you.
 So I'm going to ask that after this is voted up or down, that our department take this immediately and leave it in the mayor's office. So that when he's back, he can sign it or wherever he is. That we hope that we will get that signature and able to move forward. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. From the top.
 I'm one point member of the MHA board motion to approve items one through four second by council member Golomba on a five submission month of reports 311 calls motion to receive and file items five six and seven second by council member Fontana on a made permission extend designated developer Bell Center motion is sent to CD second by council member Wingo on
 Item 9, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Progetto. Item 10, inter-fund loan LaSalle-Seawall construction. Motion to approve items 10 through 15. Second by President Progetto.
 Item 16, money owed to city by BMHA. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Farnsley. Item 17, appoint senior accountant. Motion to send to civil service items 17, 18, and 19. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 20, open data portal contract. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Farnsley. Item 21, notification serials. Motion to receive and file item 21.
 Second by Council Member Glumba. Item 22, changing contract City Hall improvements project. Motion to approve items 22 through and including 48. All right.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 49, appoint Assistant Corporation Council 2. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 50, appoint Director of Employee Relations. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Columbo. Item 51, mobile food truck. Lloyd's truck number 3. Motion to approve items 51 through 57. Can you go to 52 because 53 is going to have some conditions on it?
 So you want to approve items 51? 51 and 52. 51 and 52. Second by President Pro Temp. Item 53, public dance hall license, 1420 Maine. Motion to approve with conditions. All right. The conditions for this is that this will be a temporary license until September 30th, 2017.
 The applicant did apply. Unfortunately, it was misdirected, so I haven't met with the applicant. In fairness to the applicant, so that they can get the process on, I guess they had some events planned.
 planned, we agreed that we would revisit this so that the applicant could come before the council to talk about the dance hall as we do with all dance hall requests in Ellicott District. So, again, that will be until September 30th, 2017.
 Next item 54 restaurant dance class 363 military motion to approve items 54 through 57 second by council member for your letter. I'm 58 response controller fire audit motion to send to finance second by councilman Fontana item 58 a permission to purchase used equipment. This is late file Mr. Chairman brought down by Mr. Sunderland. It saves the city $8,000 motion is to approve.
 Absolutely. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 59, contract amendment, passport parking. Motion to approve items 59, 60, 61, and 62. Seconded by Councilmember Franczak. Item 63, item returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 63 through 65. Seconded by Councilmember Fierle. Item 66, appoint chief of staff to common council. Thank you.
 Motion to adopt items 66 and 67. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 68, notice of appointments, temporary provisional permit. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 69, New York State Public Service Commission public hearing information. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 70, central staff task list. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Tempore.
 Item 71, parking meters on Tonawanda Street. Motion to send the CD and public works items 71 and 72. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item 73, Cherry's Wrong, request for increasing awareness. Motion to receive and file items 73 and 74. Second by Council Member Colombo. Item 75, concerns cancellation police oversight committee meeting. There's a motion to receive and file, but I'd like to comment on this item. Second by Council Member Colombo. You have the floor.
 We had scheduled, beginning of the year, two meetings that were locked in. One was in January, one was July 18th.
 As we know, the police department canceled the July 18th meeting. Certainly we weren't happy with the cancellation so close to recess. I did speak to Commissioner Durenda. We have scheduled a new meeting, a new date. It's going to be September the 26th at 11 a.m. And in the process, I've also spoken to Commissioner Durenda and to Council President Lueb.
 regarding setting up a working group that works under the police oversight. And we will be sponsoring a resolution establishing this working group of professionals that can help the police department with stats and data and surveys and analysis. I think it's going to be beneficial to the Buffalo Police Department. It's going to enhance the professionalism. And they can also meet in between meetings.
 There's nothing that prevents this council from holding meetings in between the two meetings that have been established. But I have worked with groups interested in establishing a working group meeting. And it's something I'm looking forward to once we come back. We'll establish this task force that works under the Police Oversight Committee. Once again, for those people that had...
 made plans to come in July 18th and were disappointed by the cancellation. It had absolutely nothing to do with this Common Council. It was totally at the hands of the Buffalo Police Department and their administrative staff. And, Majority Leader, I know that the Police Department desires to bring in all of the brass. I just feel, and this is just one council member, you're never going to be able to schedule everybody
 And I think to expect that you're going to bring in all command staff is we'll never have the meeting. I think that the commissioner or the deputy commissioner should be able to show up. Most of what the items we've talked about, we already have asked for certain things, but they should just bring it and bring the answers, and what they've got to go back and work on, they have to work on. I don't think that we have a lot of...
 People who are concerned that we don't have the meeting, and I think you said it correctly, we're ready. We're ready to have the meeting. But I think we have to send a message to our commissioner that he does not have to bring the whole command staff. Mr. Chairman. Or a deputy, preferably him, the commissioner. I think it's based on the items that's before us.
 If you're going to be talking about sex offenders, then perhaps he's going to have to bring his lieutenant to the sex offense unit. If it has to do with district-wide things, he brings his chief.
 If it has to do with training, he brings in Commissioner Beatty. So it all has to do with whatever's on the agenda and part of the conversation for that particular meeting. We've never asked him to bring his whole command staff. That has been his decision to bring his command staff. And I think it's based on his comfort level explaining some of the things that perhaps other department heads will be able to better explain. Right. My concern is...
 If every time we have a police oversight meeting scheduled,
 If their schedules are not making it, then we want to cancel. And I don't think we should be doing that. I agree with you. I think there's a solution to this problem if he is going to cancel the meeting. And that came from a meeting I had this morning with a group. If he's going to cancel a meeting, then he should schedule the meeting for an earlier date. If I know that I'm not going to be here July 18th, then let's have the meeting June 18th.
 but let's have the meeting either ways before we go on recess. So we certainly want to make sure that if he does cancel a meeting, at least give us due notice or schedule the meeting before that. And I would just suggest whatever we put out to the public of when that meeting is going to be, the meeting needs to be.
 And if one person cannot make it, there's deputies. And the reason is because a lot of folks will beat up on the council and say we canceled it. We did not cancel it. But we also have to then insist that when there is a meeting scheduled and it's public,
 You've got to have the meeting. And if Darius can't make a meeting as the chair, the meeting still goes on. Every other Tuesday we have this council meeting. Every other Tuesday there's a committee meeting. It can't stop because of one person not being able to make it is my whole point. I think we're in agreement, and we hope to share that with Commissioner Durand at the next meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next slide. Thank you.
 No applause, I'm doing your work. I'm doing your work. That's what you hired me to do.
 Item 76, Buffalo News Editorial, Buffalo Man Accused of Firing into Crowd. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 77, Conditions for Property Manager License. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingold. Petitions, Item 78, Zoning Map Amendment 154, Greenwood. Motion to send to Legislation and City Planning Board, Items 78 through 82.
 Second by Councilmember, I was about to have you. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Committee meeting. Civil service. Item one, appoint associate accountant. Motion to approve items one through four.
 Somebody comes in for a load. If I could just pause for those folks who are leaving. I want to thank, now I didn't even know what the item they were here for, but I do want to thank them that, you know, recently we've had some things happen in this chamber when people came because they were concerned about an item, and I want to thank you for coming, listening, being a part of the process, not disrupting this chamber, but just being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's how you do it. I make that for you too. Hmm?
 Yeah, because if I would say something, if they had a meeting, they were here because they're concerned. And I didn't even know that, to be very honest. Good. Next item. Item 5, appoint personnel specialist 2. Motion to approve. Second by the majority leader. Item 6, notice appointments temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by the Majority Leader. Finance Committee, Item 7, Audit of Erie Basement in the 2016 season. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. I made permission for approval of contract renewal of G4S Secure Solutions. Motion to recommit. Senate Finance. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item 9, Approval to Purchase New Police Vehicles.
 Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Can you develop an item if we could just put a notation? If they do plan to stray away from the chargers, which have been fairly successful...
 and move towards the turbocharged Explorers, I think the council should know that because we need to know the rationale behind going towards a whole other vehicle, mixing the fleet again. We'll have four different cars in the fleet at that point if we go to another vehicle at this time.
 We've never had four different cars in the fleet at any great extent. This would create four different vehicles. I'm very leery of this turbocharged engine in this Explorer, so there's a lot of information I think we need to know because we get blamed in the end. Right now we're driving Crown Vicks with 200,000 miles on them. Those vehicles were known commodities. They were known to go 200,000-plus miles.
 An Explorer with a turbocharged engine, in my opinion, is not known to do that without great expense to that engine. So I think it's important that this council knows what we're going to buy. This is a blank check, essentially, to go buy police vehicles. They can buy whatever they want. They could buy...
 Chevy Impala's if they want We just don't know what they're gonna buy so I think we really should know what they're gonna buy and the report back to the Council should be it should be given. Okay, thank you, sir That's that community development committee item 10 reporter sales to not turn company real estate Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, this motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Revere. Item 11, 854 Allicat Street, request air rights easement over Goodrich. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Freer, 11. Item 12, Vertal Avenue right-of-way, a banner and sail. We approved that already, didn't we? We did.
 Yeah, we have to... Yeah, this was public here. This is a different... All right. Oh, 12 is separate from the 30. Yeah, okay. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Frioletto. Item 15, HUD Annual Action Plan. Motion to approve. Seconded by the Majority Leader. Item 16, Establish Transportation Working Group. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Pro Temp. Legislation Committee, Item 17, Use 317 Hopkins.
 17 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve with conditions set by the district council member with a one-year sunset to be revisited. Seconded by the majority leader who has to come. I'm sorry.
 by President Pro Tem who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the history at this address and some issues that were there and some concerns by the immediate neighbors, we decided to approve this with a one-year sunset on it along with some conditions that will be filed with the clerk's office. So just so everyone's known, one year from now we'll revisit it just to make sure everything's going well. Okay. Great. Thank you.
 Item 19, use 202, Rhode Island. Items 18 through and including 22, the motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 23, proposed rules for small cell attachment. 23 originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt, and on this item, the two things that we asked for in committee before putting up the cell phone towers was public engagement, and they have come back with in this document that there will be public engagement. So these cell phone towers will not just be put up in the neighborhood. There will be a sign put on the pole that is being proposed saying,
 And the applicant will be responsible for having a public meeting in which Public Works will also attend. They have to send out notification, I believe, 100 feet around the pole and have the public meeting within a certain radius of the pole itself, which I think makes all of the sense in the world of not bringing people down here, let them go right to their own neighborhoods. And...
 they will pick up the cost for that. So there will be a postcard sent to the houses, a notice on the poll, a public meeting that will be held. On the revenue part that we talked about, part of the revenue was already estimated in the revenue of the city budget for this year. So that will be something we can go back and ask. But because we know that these –
 cell phone attachments will make money. My discussion with the administration today was we want to make sure that in some ways they are a community benefit to the communities that are being affected, whether that's light poles or something. But if you're going to bring these things and the money's going to come in, what I don't want to see happen to it is it just goes into the general fund and kind of disappears.
 the community should benefit in some way. Council Member Wyatt is right. Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to make sure I heard what you said. You said they had already anticipated this revenue in the budget? That's what I was told today by finance. Okay. So they're going to come back with us, give us information, and then we'll go forward. Thank you. That's what I was told, that they had anticipated this as far as the revenues that we needed.
 Thank you. So we put it on the table that we want to know where this money is going. Council Member, thank you very much. I guess I choose to believe that that was part of the revenue because it was never discussed during the budget process in terms of new revenues. But I agree with you. At some point, we should use that money as a public benefit, perhaps as...
 uh for more light poles replacement poles in the city of buffalo we spend millions of dollars and we just want to make sure that doesn't get lost that there is some public benefit yes and i do want to come in now and i did tell him i would love to have gotten the money this time uh but i do want to commend uh the administration for going back i met with tom turpack a few others who were there and this public engagement piece i think that that's
 That's huge. They came back with it quick, and the public, I believe, will be well served that they will have a voice about what goes up in their community. You don't just wake up one day and there's all this attachment to the polls in your neighborhood. So I want to thank them for that.
 All right, next item. Item 24, food store license 3172, Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fiorinetto. Item 35, public dance hall 318, Pearl Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 26, property managed license. Motion 26 is motion to approve with conditions. Oh, that's all right then.
 Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 27, property manager license. 27, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 28, property management license, Robert Marvin. 28 is receiving file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 29, property manager license, Lisa Fusina. 29, approve with conditions. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 30.
 Item 30, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 196, fortune-telling. 30 through and including 33. If there are no objections, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Fortune-tellers can now write fortune-telling books in Buffalo. You can have a baseball game after this is signed into law before 2 o'clock and go to the movies. Which, if you did it before now, you could get fined and go to jail. So anybody got any fortunes? Yes.
 Council Member White, you're on the floor. Yes, sir. I was trying to get your attention for item number 29. The motion is to revisit item number 29. Seconded by Council Member Friar-Leto as before. Yes, sir. We had Ms. Fusina here for the property manager, and there's a lot of properties in my district. And I asked her, I'm actually sending her information on some of the properties here.
 And I'm going to be quite honest, there were a couple that I was very disturbed by, and I'm sending it with conditions for her to address those things. I know, like I said to her when she was here, I understand that it's not perfect, but certainly when I get feedback from the residents that they've contacted you a number of times on very serious matters,
 flooding in their basement, no response, long electrical cords from one area of the house to another to power a dishwasher or stove or dryer. Those are very serious issues. So the conditions for this particular property manager I would like to have back in writing and maybe even possibly have her come back because, again, I need to hear from the residents. I'm not able to go inside each one of their homes and find out what the conditions are, but from the outward appearance –
 speaks volumes, but in this particular case, I got a chance to speak to a woman who was up in age and that there was no response to her. That is not something I'm going to tolerate. That's why I want to make certain that property managers, that we at least look at them, talk to them, find out what's going on because I don't want to approve a license for another slumlord. That's not going to happen. Not on my watch. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good job. Council Member Fontana. Thank you very much, and I want to thank the council member for looking into those concerns
 We are charged with approving these licenses, and I guess we're receiving filing once they, I don't know if that's because they asked for it or if we just didn't pass muster.
 He didn't live in the county. Oh, he didn't live in the county. So he didn't pass the ordinance requirements. But when it comes down to the FUSINA license, if any resident does have a concern or a problem contacting, I know I'm a city council member. I know when I call people, they normally call me back. But every time I've called Lisa, I just call her this week because the house came in on Herb Street.
 supposedly under her control and had some drug dealers in it, so I texted her right away. She texted me back within 10 minutes saying, I don't have that property. I haven't had it in a few years. Here's the new person I was able to contact. So she's very responsive to my calls. So if a resident is not getting that response that we get, they should call us.
 And then we will call the property manager directly and then ask why they haven't gotten back to them. So I don't know if the staff over there is not relaying the calls, but Lisa is always a phone call away when I reach out to her. Plus, you know where she lives. She can't run. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 All right. Next item. Item 34, ordinance amendment chapter 399, smoking. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item 35, ordinance amendment chapter 175, fees. Item originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve. Second by Councilmember Blainley.
 Item 36, ordinance amendment chapter 440, telecommunications. Same motion approved. Second by council member Revere. Item 37, planned unit development 229L. Now, did we not approve that, Mr. Majority Leader? We approved that discharge, I believe. We did approve it. We did approve it. All right. It was approved. The discharge was approved. The discharge was approved. We adopted the discharge. Right. The item was going to show up in resolutions. Item 38, crime prevention. Did we approve it? Yes.
 Well, this here is a discharge, so if this is the item, wasn't the item in the resolution section? No, we just discharged it. So if we just, then the motion is to approve. Approve. Second by Council Member Rear. Because you had already discharged it, so now we're approving it. Right, exactly. Item 38, crime prevention and rental units. 38, motion receiving file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Claims Committee, item 39, claims for payment unapproved by Otterer.
 Say what? Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit. Second by President. Which item is that? 39. 39. That was the other one. Right. We had discharged. That was another discharge, and we're sending it back. So we discharged it. Now we're sending it back home. That's the one you were referring to. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. You have the floor. This item is informational. It came from the Comptroller's Office.
 We did speak with Corporation Counsel. They will provide us a prior year invoice so we can make good on this. But right now this item, I don't know if it's a discharge or a receiving file if they're going to send us a prior year fiscal invoice. All right. Well, state of the... It's a receiving file. MS. Lauren Howard is the... MR. Motion is... Motion is... I'm sorry. MS. Lauren Howard is with Corporation Counsel. If it's just informational, then it should be receiving file.
 It is a receiving file. We'll have another item coming before us. Got it. Second by Council Member White. Resolutions, Item 83, Endorsement and Approval, Preservation League. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 84, Fee Waiver, Habitat for Humanity. Motion to approve Items 84 and 85. Second by Council Member Golombi, Poets' Floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With item number 39, I'd feel more comfortable if that would go back to the claims committee rather than being received and filed. All right. Okay. So we need to revisit it then. Let me finish up this. What did we just do?
 item 85. so is your motion to revisit item 30 39 from claims all right motion is to revisit item 39 revisit item 39 second by councilman frialetto now what was your comment on 39 yeah i was i would prefer that we send this back to committee rather than receiving filing it did we
 received received received all right councilmember this is an outstanding issue related to this informational and I hate to see it be received and filed and then not have an item to discuss in claims.
 So that's, Council Member Gwomack and I were talking, both thought maybe we just send it back to the committee. It's not harming anyone going back to the committee. Okay. Anybody have any problem with that, Council Member? I don't have any problem at all. We're going to be voting on another item prior fiscal year invoice, so no problem at all. At some point we'll receive a file then.
 So we rescind the motion to receive the file, seconded by Council Member Franczak. And now the motion that is before us is to... Send it to the claims committee. Send it back to claims. Seconded by Council Member Villalobos. Item 87, waive park rental and special events fees for Linwood Preservation District. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 89, access to FBI database for summer camps. Motion to adopt 89 and 90.
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 91, fee waiver for sixth annual stop violence celebration. Motion to approve items 91 and 92. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 93, support for Evergreen Health's consolidated funding application. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 94, sixth annual stop the violence. Motion to approve items 94 and 95.
 Second by Council Member Fioletto. Item 96, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt Item 96 and 97. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 98, Budget and Personnel Amendment Law. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fioletto. Item 99, Appoint Marriage Officer. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wingo. Can we revisit Item 90, please? Motion to approve.
 Motion to revisit item number 90. Second by Council Member White. This is a formal request of the police department to provide a listing of the checkpoints that have already occurred so that we can start to look at some policy
 to ensure that checkpoints are equitable around the city, that we don't just have one area that always has these police checkpoints. And so this is the formal request for it. I know that, I don't know about your offices, but my office has received a lot of,
 calls, people stopping me in grocery stores, are concerned not about the checkpoints themselves, and I want to be clear. There's some areas and there are times that checkpoints are needed, but they should be equitable. They should be all over the city on purpose. And although we don't want to set policy about strategy, because you never know what the strategy is, I just think that it's important that after the police check,
 that it is public, you know, what was found, how many tickets were written, how many, you know, that data actually we found in the research is supposed to be provided, I think, quarterly and then yearly.
 And right now we don't get any of that data. There is in, on the books that the police department is to submit a full report to this council. And I think that needs to occur because then there's transparency and we're able, my goal in this is not to bang on the police department, it is to build trust.
 Because where there is no information, often there is misinformation.
 We have to have the facts, and we need to start going from facts to ensure that there's community trust, community is assured that our police department is working with that type of integrity. I think it's important. So this is about working together because I know how some will misinterpret this. Well, they're going after police officers. This isn't about going after. It's about facts and data and knowing rather than assuming. Thank you. Next slide. Motion stands. Let us go.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Council Member Wingo, you had a floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I do believe that the police checkpoints are very useful. I do think that they serve a purpose. But I think the key word here today is equity and that we're not just targeting certain areas in the city of Buffalo. I do believe that they serve a great purpose as in finding illegal guns out on the street. But as far as, you know, the...
 concentration of police checkpoints in certain areas of the city, people being ticketed for non-criminal offenses, taillights being out or registration expired, things of that nature that they would not typically have gotten pulled over for, or maybe a taillight but no registration or something like that. But I do want the public to know that I do not
 We are abusing the checkpoints. But I do want to commend you, Mr. President, on this resolution asking for the data. Because I do believe that data informs decisions. And if we can make informed decisions on strategy, I believe that these will be more useful, more useful than what they've been seeing in the community. And I do believe that they are useful in the fact that they...
 We have a police presence in our communities, and we do know that the police are working. It's evident, and the police stops. So I don't want people to be discouraged because there's a police check. I do want people to be encouraged and know that the police are doing whatever they can to try to ensure that we're getting illegal guns off the street.
 or whatever type of remedy this is yielding for the police department. But, again, I just want to commend you, Mr. President, on this resolution, and I do want to just go on a record as publicly saying that I do believe that these are useful. We just want to make sure that we have that key word, which is equity, making sure that we're utilizing this strategy accordingly.
 across the city of Buffalo and not just concentrating on certain areas. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And the Partnership for Public Good made a very good suggestion, and I don't know about, you brought up about things like a tail light. And so they talked about some municipalities that give you a ticket
 like to get it fixed. So, in other words, they give you a ticket, but it's not a ticket that you've got to pay a fine. So they say, here, you've got to get this fixed in two weeks. You get it fixed, and, you know, for a purse of friends. I thought that was rather interesting. I think we should explore something like that, especially, you know, if it helps, you know. I'm driven to not know my inspection sticker, was it.
 there and I went right away, but I would have got a ticket. Period. So I think that some of this is great public service. Like the police officer went viral the other day that went to a call for kids playing football in the street.
 I think that it's just wonderful. So he gets out of the car. So they start filming him, I think thinking there might be a little confrontation. And he says, where do we line up? And he starts playing football with them. And I'm not sure whose district that was in. Does anybody know whose district? It's all online. It was on the news. We need to find out the district because I think that the more trust we build like that, the better it is for our city and our community.
 Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I absolutely agree, and I was really happy to see that. I think we need to have more of those type of things, and I think they can occur. I was told that the police have started doing more patrols and walking, and I'm elated because the residents want that.
 And I think that's how you build that trust. That's how you build transparency. So to see that officer out there playing with those young men reminded me of myself because that's what I would have done. Because I've gotten out of the car a number of times in my district when I've seen young people playing basketball on the street. And I just told them be safe and at night move it.
 Because our young people need something. And I'd rather have them playing football in the street, you know, being safe, than being out gang banging and whatnot. So I'm glad to see those things. But even as we talk about this transparency, as I propose this whole red light camera thing from the council, there's data that can be gathered. There's information that can be gathered that can be very helpful.
 So I hope that my colleagues will at least have an open mind to this because, again, it's about making our communities safe. It's about creating other avenues of safety that aren't necessarily the police being on the street because, you know, once those police officers leave the traffic duty officers, that traffic can curse again and the residents still have to deal with the speeding and those type of things.
 So I just wanted to announce again that our meeting is going to be taking place on Thursday at 11 o'clock right here in Chambers so that your voice can be heard on this traffic red light cameras. Thank you. All right. Is there someone else? All right. Announcement. No one else? Announcement. Just on that one point, too, if we could also ask for the policies for towing. I had a resident one time that was unable to produce his license, left at home.
 So instead of letting the wife drive home, they towed the vehicle on him. And he has it all on video. I saw the whole video. I couldn't believe that they made the wife not drive. I also asked another officer if it's illegal to drive without your license, and they said that the car should not have been towed. So sometimes people's cars are towed in these checkpoints, and there's quite a bit of expense and trouble to get it back. And we'd like to know if they're getting towed properly or not. Like you mentioned...
 you know, a loud muffler, things like that. My son received one of those tickets a few months back, going to my dad's place, and he was given a
 violation notice of some sort. He had to fix it, and then you have an officer of the law, a police officer, verify that it was fixed, any officer. And then he sent that back in once the officer signed it. And it was done, over with. So it accomplishes what you need to accomplish. So that was a good idea. But the towing is where I'm interested to see also, because I don't know if people's cars get towed for not having their license on you. Towing companies shouldn't be making the money. It should be the resident that gets to keep a couple of them.
 Any sirs? Any announcement? Yes, Tuesday, August 1st is National Night Out, where the community amplifies its vigilance and work with the police department, fire department, and public safety and their neighbors to know their neighbors, know their neighborhoods.
 In the interest of public safety in my district, there's always quite a few very good ones. The Field of Dreams in the St. Stan's area, Marba Threats, the block clubs are on Coyton Detroit Street. Trinity Block Club off South Elmwood is always very active in National Night Out. Klein Hands Music Hall, there's a group that meets there from all those adjacent neighborhoods. Ann Paris on Sycamore on the east side always has, she has food, she has drinks.
 entertainment, singing, and a lot of public outreach. And so those are good for neighbors to interact with each other in the interest of public safety and city departments. Thank you, sir. Who was next? Councilman Fonten. On the same vein as Mr. Franczak, next Tuesday is National Night Out starting at 6 p.m. The announcements for Lovejoy are going to be in Kaiser Town at the St. Casimir Center.
 We go from 5 to 8 there every year. Big crowd at Kaiser Town, one of the biggest in the city of Buffalo. Not to be outdone over in the Lovejoy Village at Hennepin Park. There will also be a national night out this year again, headed by the Head East Group, Michael Cacciatore, President, and my office will be hosting at Lovejoy.
 at the Hennepin Park Center. Up in Schiller Park, Gwen Hunt, the president of the block club there, is hosting a national night out over on Academy and St. Mary's Roads. They always have a great time. It blows off the street. They're having the bounce house this year. So anyone that lives on Academy and St. Mary's, feel free to come over. Cortesia over on Fall Street is going to be having another block club party this year as well. Our good friend John Leverett.
 and many others over in Walden Heights will be having a party this year in the park, and over on Brinkman Street at Brinkman and Sumner in the Mary Jean Sloan Park is this year's National Night Out for Brinkman and Sumner Streets. Now, if you live close by any of those streets, feel free to come over. There's going to be free food at all the events, and I've...
 Have so many this year that I've called my son into duty. He will be a few of the events subbing in for me He's 18 now he could work and they might not get the older fontana, but they'll get a younger fontana at the event So we're gonna have a good time. It's always a fun event and it's nice To know that people are really taking part in their community. Thank you. Thank you very much today Oh
 Mr. Wyatt? Thank you, sir. I'm just going to make a bunch of announcements. I feel like I'm on power to the people. Wednesday, July 26th, I'm on UB. We have UB on the green. We're going to have the Kenny Hawkins Band, thanks to the University Heights Collaborative and their efforts to...
 make you be a little bit more sensitive to community, so that's going to be taking place tomorrow. On August 27th, my office will be having our second annual, third annual, University District Back to School on August 27th, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Martha Mitchell Community Center at 175 Oakmont. We also have an event that's going to be taking place, our first annual Art and Epilepsy Awareness Event, benefit concert, right at the University Theater.
 on August 25th. Pre-sale tickets are $20. And I'm just announcing that because this is the first event that Neal Mack is putting in play regarding epilepsy. He's going to have some celebrities...
 from Channel 2 and others that are going to be there, but I hope that people will come out and support this. This is something that's very much an issue in our community, epilepsy, and this is going to be an awareness event so that people can be aware. And thank you for all the council members who are supporting and sponsoring it. Thank you, sir. Council Member Lombard.
 I got one last thing. You got more? I'm sorry. You got another one? All right. Come on. I want to acknowledge this individual, Derek Barton Fisher. He's the son of Addie and Willie Fisher of Weston Avenue. He was granted a United States patent on July 4th. Derek is a 50-year-old, presently works as a mechanical engineer and resides in the city of Buffalo. He developed a concept method.
 and apparatus for generation, transmission, and storage of electric energy. He graduated from Buffalo State College and is a product of Buffalo School's Hutch Tech. Just congratulations to him and his family. All right. Thank you, sir. Council Member Glummet. Thank you, Mr. President. On August 5th, this week from Saturday, we are going to be having in Black Rock Riverside what we're calling 14207 days.
 We've talked about trying to get back to a neighborhood in the community and in a neighborhood that's been going through a lot of changes over the past few years. We've worked with our local neighborhoods, the ethnic neighborhoods, the ethnic restaurants, the traditional restaurants, we have the All Saints Lawn Fete, we have the Tour of Gardens,
 There's a whole host of things that are going on in the Riverside and Black Rock sections of Buffalo. 14207 is our zip code, roughly going on from 9 until about 11 o'clock. So if anybody's free and they're looking for something to do on August 5th,
 Check us out on Facebook, 14207 Days. Thank you to Jim Montour, Sharon Adler, and a lot of other people here in this building for putting it together. Thank you all. A lot going on. This is our last meeting. But today is also the last meeting of our Assistant Corporation Counsel, Lauren Howard, who will be leaving city government to pursue another career.
 And I am really, it's bittersweet. You know, she came up in the council after she came out of law school. She wanted to be in the council. It was her request to be our lawyer. Can I say what you're going to pursue? Art? So in her heart has been to pursue art.
 And hopefully I've been a great influence to help push her out of the door into her dreams. Because I definitely pushed her to live your life. And we'll miss you, but we also have a...
 recognition signed by all nine council members and we just hope that your whoever will be replacing you will be as pleasant as what you have been but we encourage you to live your life live your dreams live who you really are and be who going how it is and taking this huge step from law which you always be a lawyer's on the enemy but from law to the arts is living your life
 Lauren Howard, Oregon Council. You guys got me fresh out of law school. I'd only been admitted to practice law for maybe six months, and you were very patient with me. You felt my interest a little bit. I just wanted to say thank you, and I want to thank the staff and the third class for teaching me how to do my job. Yes. Thank you. Motion. Motion.
 Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilman Fairlady. I'll see you in September.