Item number 14, Interfund Loan 509, Michigan. Item number 15, Interfund Loan Allen Street Phase 2. Item number 16, Niagara Bridge Rehab. That's an Interfund Loan. Item number 17, Interfund Loan Dewey Avenue Bridge Rehab. Item number 18, Interfund Loan South Ogden Bridge.
 item number 19 into fund loan maine humboldt kensington item number 20 into fund loan curb and joint rehab item number 21 permission to enter into agreement natural upcycling food waste collection item number 22 change order cold spring construction item number 23 permission to accept funds and enter into agreement with erie county urban initiatives
 Item number 24, report of bids group 1012, Bailey and Virginia resurfacing. Item number 25, report of bid Allen Street reconstruction phase 2. Item number 26, permission to hire consultant Foyt Albert. Motion to approve items 1 through 26. 2 through 26, second by council member. Excuse me, that's 2 through 26. Second by council member Nowakowski.
 Councilmember White. Thank you Mr. President. I just want to take the time to acknowledge two of these items. Number one, I want to thank our
 legislative chair April Baskins for her investment in taking a percentage of Erie County's funds for infrastructure myself and majority leader met with her and she's committed to making certain that we get a share and she's done some great things in the dollars that she's going to invest it's going to be go a long way to helping in our infrastructure improvements and roads and things in our city so I want to thank her for that as well as I believe my colleague councilmember Nowakowski
 notified was notified by mr. Finn that the money that he put forth with his resolution on infrastructure and the school zones is part of number 24 so we thank the administration for the efforts and getting that underway so that we can again make our make sure our commitment to the people or non-punitive measures takes place before schools that happens on September 1 thank you
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also wanted to join in and thank Legislator Howard Johnson, who worked with Council Member Bowman and yourself to talk about how they can work and use urban initiative fundings to work in tandem with the projects we have in our district, which are a huge help. There's parks and roads that will be done in my district with the assistance of this.
 funding and commissioner finn and nolan skipper did contact me and tell me that within an item here is also money for slow streets and the slow streets initiatives there is a lot of work to do that but i'm happy to see that there is a contract here on the table that's for approval thank you councilman bowman thank you councilmember revere thank you very much mr chair i'd like to also
 Chairman April Baskin for meeting with us and making City part of the county budget in a sense of infrastructure as you know
 We hear a lot of road work being done to the Aurora areas and other parts of the county. And to have our legislators fight for dollars for the City of Buffalo and our respective districts as Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt mentioned, we are going to designate money for the Niagara District and University District and I'm sure Howard is allocating money for the Fillmore District and perhaps the Lovejoy District and I'm not sure what other districts, but
 It's refreshing to know that we have that kind of relationship with our county legislators, and they're making the city part of their priority as well. Thank you very much. Absolutely. Motion. Hearing nothing else. Motion. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. So are we going to be down here?