Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Testing. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 Thank you. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner, on our first meeting back in over a year. Thank you, Council President, and it is good to be back. It appears we're doing old home week, even though we're not in Williamsville, with former colleagues in the chambers. It's been quite an adventure the last year.
 to see more of where each of you lived during our Zoom meetings and the decorations and everything else that's there, but it's good to be back where the people's business is best done. Deb would be here, but she had cataract surgery yesterday, so she's praying for you from afar. Coming into recess, I would have wanted to do something a bit more lighthearted than I'm going to do, but my heart is heavy. Anyone who dies is heartbroken.
 for so many. But when kids die, that heartbreak just multiplies and the burden almost is overwhelming. Psalm 84, 5 and 6. What joy for those whose strength comes from the Lord who set their minds on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. When they walk through the valley of, in the Hebrew, Baka, which means weeping or the valley of tears, it will become a place of refreshing springs.
 I know a couple of weeks ago at session, we remembered Commissioner Barker's son. But this last Saturday, Deb and I were at St. John Baptist in a more than packed out church. And for many in the council and Deb and me, Commissioner Otis Barker has been a personal friend for a very long time. And I have kids the age of his son that passed. You might understand when I say I got physically sick.
 and just so much grief. And when I saw Otis, and he was doing everything you have to do at that moment, but those eyes that dance so wonderfully in my brother, there wasn't any of that left right now. And he's in the valley of tears, the valley of weeping, and his whole family. And then when Shaquille Walker Jr., that three-year-old who died...
 I also, so I've got kids Commissioner Barker's son's age and I've got grandkids the age of that young three-year-old and again my heart was broken because we're supposed to as adults protect the next generation and the next generation and when we don't there's a sense of pain that extends in the whole community. So today as I lead us in prayer we're praying obviously for every one of those family members and friends that are just
 brokenhearted, grief-stricken, grief-overcome, valley of weeping and tears. But the scripture goes on to talk about a place of refreshing springs. And that's what I want to pray. And I want to pray, Council President, years ago, you came up with the phrase, enough is enough. I want to pray enough is enough with you today. Would you join me in prayer, Father? You know how heavy on my heart the valley of weeping and tears is for some of our friends.
 You know what they're experiencing today, and we ask that you would draw close as only you can and do as a father who loves each of us intimately with great fervor and expression. Lord, pour divine, heavenly love into brokenhearted people. And Father, I pray enough is enough. Lord, I pray a turning back of the death of the next generation and the next generation in our city.
 I pray that tomorrow I know there's going to be a prayer service for that. And I know that many of the council members in their neighborhoods are having community anti-violence task force and all kinds of other things that they're bringing to the forefront. Give wisdom, give grace, give creativity.
 that we can turn back that wave and Lord today we choose as Ezekiel to prophesy life over generations to come in Buffalo. Thanks now for this session this time. I pray you bless it abundantly with your divine presence and guide us we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you Dr. Warner. Councilmembers any memorials?
 And normally we would be standing, I just realized we sat. We've been away for so long we almost forgot our, well at least that portion of the procedure will return to that in our next meeting. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to remember Thomas Mentowitz of the Kysertown neighborhood. He was always an active member of our community, lived a long time resident over in our Kysertown neighborhood so our condolences to his family.
 then also Lisa Marcyniuk who was a special education teacher at the South Buffalo Charter School she had health issues and she had lost her battle, but she was always a very welcoming face for the students of the charter school and you know She touched many lives so her her works will live on in those students. So she'll be sorely missed. Thank you. I
 thank you sir and i'm just having a little trouble hearing so we're trying to adjust that anyone else as dr warner mentioned baby shaquel walker jr who was funeralized at the true bethel church on saturday and i just in a note i want to thank his parents who gave
 his organs away upon his passing. And now there are three people who are enjoying life
 because of the decision of Shaquille's parents. And that's a big decision to make for young parents. And for them to care enough, it showed a great deal of compassion. So we want to remember all of those. And of course, if there are no others, men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and for others since our last meeting together, we pause in these chambers for a moment
 of silence. Thank you, colleagues. Today we are privileged to have in our chambers not only two former council members,
 but two former council presidents. And everybody has on red ties today. All of the presidents who are present in the room. And it's not often that you would get two to return. We already have one picture of Council Member Franczak and I wish Council Member Fontana had brought his today. You do have it?
 oh it's in the building good maybe somebody could grab it uh from if it's in one of the offices because his portrait um is here and uh we will be making room and working with the arts uh division to make sure it is placed properly on the wall here in these chambers and maybe even come back and we do it another day
 The reason that I asked you both to come and our clerk, we've been working on this for a while. But what happened is that during COVID, we weren't getting the supplies and we didn't want to do it during COVID anyway. First of all, I want to thank you both for your tremendous service and long term service to this city and what you have done.
 Each council member has these that are given out to us, which identify us as city lawmakers. And we have a silver one. I don't know if you all still have your silver badge. You do have your silver badge. Well, we wanted to honor you who have retired honorably from this council with a new gold badge.
 This one is much better because it also has the picture, or you can put your credit cards in it. But we just wanted to honor you. Thank you, sir. Council members, anybody have anything you want to say? Because it's not just from me. Council President, I'm relieved because Council Member Bowman and I didn't know if you were reappointing them back to the council or...
 But now that we know what it's for, it's for two honorable men. And Council Member Bowman and myself throughout our short term as council members still keep in contact with these two gentlemen. And they give us advice. And I know that they will continue to. So it's very worthy. Absolutely. Anyone? Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, I'm so appreciative to both of you.
 council president and majority leaders. When I came on in 2007, I wanted to hit the ground running. And the two people that I relied on heavily to learn how to, the rules of order, just what the processes were. I could always count on Dave Franze to lecture me on the charter.
 And I could always talk to Rich Fontana. He could always talk about finances, almost everything. He was an expert in everything. And so I know they served their constituents well. And the fact that their replacements are here today and people that they've supported and worked with is a testament to you and your ability to hire good people. So thank you for your service to the city and the help that you personally gave me. Thank you.
 I really, really am happy to see both Mr. Franczak and Mr. Fontana. I have learned an immense amount of this job from both of these gentlemen right here in this room today. I am honored to have been able to sit next to council member, former council president David Franczak. He has always been straight with me.
 And I really appreciate that. And I always can appreciate his candidness and how straightforward he was with his explanation to me in more private settings of why he would vote one way or the other. And then, of course, there's Mr. Fontana. You know, Rich and I and my wife and DeeDee, we all went out to eat, you know, not too long ago after the pandemic was over, of course.
 And you know, you learn a lot about Rich if you sit next to his wife. And we just enjoyed ourselves so much, and I am just so grateful to have been able to serve with both of you gentlemen, both Star Wars in this field of work and public service. I look forward to working with you all in the future.
 in the future as rich you work for the department of transportation so you've been doing a great job at keeping the entrances and the the on-ramps uh clear of debris in the master district at least because you know the 33 runs directly through my district but we really thank you for that and last but not least uh council member uh franzek the cigar you left at my house
 someone stole it. So I never got a chance to try that. So we'll get that together one of these days. I appreciate you and thank you for the opportunity. Thank you, sir. Council Member?
 Thank you, Council President. When I joined the council in 2012, Council Member Fontana was the council president at the time. And my first seat was right here, two over next to Council Member Franczak. Council Member Fontana was instrumental in helping me learn and, as Council Member Rivera mentioned, hit the ground running.
 and he was there and I learned so much about community and what it means to serve the residents of your community and your district, regardless of what that might be. So I thank him for that and thank you for your service to the city of Buffalo. And to Council Member Franczak, he's someone that you kind of learn, sitting near him, you learn through osmosis at times almost. You know, you just, there's so much...
 history there and so much knowledge that he owns around about the city of Buffalo and I was just always so grateful for His commitment to this city to her charter and to this this body and To ensuring transparency and things of that nature when it comes to this body So I want to thank him again for his commitment to the city of Buffalo It's two incredible council presidents three incredible council presidents that I've been had the fortunate the
 that I've been fortunate enough to serve with. So I thank you all very much. Thank you. Council Member? Thank you. Just wanted to say I knew both of you when I was a staff member on the council probably
 eight years before I served on the council. And you guys were always great, whether I was on a staff member or I was a council member, you treated me the same in both capacities. And you were always there with any type of questions and always provided guidance. And Dave, especially with history of items. And it was just really a pleasure to work with both of you for several years. I just want to thank the two living legends for your commitment.
 You know, I don't say that lightly. You have to do this job for a minute to kind of recognize the attitude it takes and the commitment and you both have demonstrated that. And Councilmember Franczak, I probably never really paid close, close attention to how you talked about the legislative branch and the importance of the separation.
 But I clearly hear, it's like a dad that was telling you this and that and you just never really paid attention. All of a sudden it hits you, it's like, that's why they were telling me that. So I really appreciate your education to us and I think that every new council member should understand that clearly. Because there is a real opportunity if you understand that. And council member,
 I don't know what to say about Mr. Fontana. He continues to be a cheerleader for me. When I was Chief of Staff, he was someone that always encouraged me and I truly appreciate that. You are somebody that knows talent and I don't take that lightly when the things that you've said to me, but again, the example that you both have set,
 speaks volumes for us as a body. If we want to be in office as long as you and made the type of difference that you two made, you've set two great examples. And Rich, I can just say, I mean, both of you put two people on staff that are tremendous and that speaks to your leadership. And I thank you and commend you for your excellence.
 Thank you. I just like to you know congratulate both former council presidents becoming members of the gold badge club, so Congratulations, but I think it speaks a lot to you know you have almost 50 years here of public service and experience in the city of Buffalo so You've made a large impact and you could hear from all the council members how much you've impacted their service as they continue Their their journey so congratulations and good luck. I
 Yeah, just like to say I was shocked that I found out that we were using stimulus dollars on solid gold. We didn't vote on that, but that was arbitrary.
 but i had the opportunity to work with both of these gentlemen i met rich first i think between 97 and 99 when i was just active in the neighborhoods and i knew david from the mid 1980s early 1980s from polish american stuff i think i worked on his second campaign in 1987. did that coincide with gorski
 Yeah, it was a year that you and Gorski were running together. So I've known both of them a long time in different ways. And it's interesting, I used to like, and I still do because David and I share an office at Buffalo State College, but because of COVID, we haven't seen each other. But I always enjoy listening to his stories. And I remember I was sitting there one day and Nick Bonifacio was majority leader at the time. And David went on one of his
 And he started talking about several different things. And Nick leaned over to me and he said, you know exactly what he's talking about, don't you? It was something about Potemkin villages. And I put my head down and said, yes, I do. And we got a chuckle out of that.
 But David and I, I think, have been very interested in historical and Polish ethnic and other things, and that was something that brought us close together, even though politically we weren't always that tied together on the council. Quite often we were on opposite sides.
 for numerous reasons. But it was a pleasure to serve with both of them. And someday when I'm in their spot, I'll look back on the days on this council of serving with men and women, my colleagues now and past colleagues, with much honor and much distinction. And the two of them did an outstanding job. Council members, would you like to report? Thank you, Mr. President. It's like deja vu all over again.
 Mr. Fontana and I leave the council and all hell breaks, pandemics, riots, speed cameras, crime. I mean, you know, maybe you got to bring us back. We shrank the council, Joe, right? Maybe you got to expand it again. But let me say this is that, you know, I remember coming here when Chet Gorski was council president and Delmar Mitchell, George Arthur, Jim Pitts. But I
 Council President Pridgen is very high up in that pantheon of excellent council presidents because he knows how, he is a, understands a human soul. He knows how to talk to people. He knows how to bring people together that might be fighting. I remember Damone and I were hollering at each other on the floor about something in the budget. He brought us together in a room and he made peace and he made a good budget come together. So he deserves, you know, all the credit that he receives.
 And all of you have shouldered a Herculean burden under unprecedented times, times that I don't remember experiencing out of my 30-plus years on the Council, a pandemic. I mean, 100 years ago, my great-grandfather died of the 1919 pandemic, but you had to deal with it here in 2020. The pressures on the city budget, the disruptions that happened in the city, the
 and marches for social justice and otherwise. And so you have really done a – all of you have done a phenomenal job in shouldering these terrible burdens. And the thing that I think that's great is you maintain the integrity of the Common Council. I very much enjoy seeing the independence of the Common Council that Mr. Wyatt had mentioned.
 And I think that's very important, regardless of what happens politically and who is in the second floor, that you maintain that independence. And just as a final thought, I've spoken to all of you, and I feel close to all of you, and I always will for the rest of my life.
 is that I think it's very important that our founding fathers in the Federalist Papers talked about the idea of serving the whole commonwealth of all of the people in our republic. And we have to be careful of a tyranny of a few, of a tyranny of extremism.
 And that tyranny attempts to dominate the will of a majority in a society. So as long as you always maintain your own voices, don't listen to the last person that spoke to you as well. Listen to everybody. Listen to your constituents. Get a sense, but then you make the ultimate decision. But in a – political rhetoric today is very exaggerated.
 and just beware of looking out for the majority and not you know having our city being controlled by the tyranny of a few or a mob thank you thank you very much council president in my farewell speech in these chambers I stated that I was very confident in the leadership of this council boy you proved me right
 done an excellent job excellent job and very trying circumstances all the council members stepping up so proud of each and every one of you and as David said lifelong friends forever you know I was 16 years old and I met Delmar Mitchell at his house in Olean I might have told you the story so bear with me but Tony Masiello state senator mr. Tarantino Tarantino foods my uncle Tony and myself drove down to Olean to get the endorsement for Tony Masiello for mayor and Delmar Mitchell
 the door to del mar mitchell's office was taken the day he left and brought into his house in olean so council president every time you walk through that door that glass door it's a different door the original door is down in olean new york so knowing him and knowing that someday soon my picture will be put up with del mar's is quite an honor as well as chester gorski who was in the kaiser town community i used to shovel for them for the wife as a kid so i used to know the family
 George Arthur and all the council presidents up until the current day, as well as working with Jim Pitts for all those years as well. Jim's excellent council president. So I just thank you for this. My original badge I gave to my son, my oldest son, because of all the stuff he had put up with over the years, and me being the councilman. So I gave him that honor. So this is a truly fitting honor to myself now to have the gold badge. And I promise I will not use this to arrest anybody. Thank you, council president. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 i want to thank you all for i know that the tv audience was able to to experience that and i know we took a little time but i think it was worth every second of it for the many years that these gentlemen have served our city and continue to be a part of it all right
 Council members, you have the late. I'm sorry. Not a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon. The minutes of stated meeting held on July 6, 2021 are approved. You have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review an item. I believe we have one item majority leader taken out of order.
 84 motion to take item 84 out of order second by councilmember for your letter item number 84 discharge item 21 887 from legislation committee a motion to adopt second by councilmember white item number one city of Buffalo American rescue plan proposal this is a late file
 All right. This is a late file that has been brought in from, I mean, sent in from the administration. I believe every one of you have received a copy of it that asked administration to send you. I do want to say this again, as I said in caucus, that this is only a proposal. So anybody who sees this hour moving this to a committee, it is not set in stone. The mayor has said.
 Council so that we can make sure that sometime in August, unfortunately, we're going to have to come back together for an in-person meeting to actually ratify this budget and move it forward. So for the next two weeks, we are going to work feverishly to ensure that we have a budget that is
 that this is a budget for the money that this city has never seen before. So if you want to send it to finance, we can send it to finance, but council members, we've got to work like now.
 So we can't wait because it must be submitted to the federal government by the end of the month. So I don't want to wait until two days before and then we're scrambling back and forth. So I've already sent everybody email, compiled a document to share with the administration. And then once I get everybody's if there's something that you feel is very important to your district or to the city.
 please put it in there councilmember wingo thank you i just want to make sure that the community whoever's watching this knows that the buffalo transformation fund on the city's website link does work
 I know that my office has submitted a few ideas through that resource, as well as myself. And reading through this, I can see that two of those ideas are actually in this document. So I want the public to know that this document, if you go to the City of Buffalo's website, cityofbuffalony.gov,
 under the mayor's tab will be Buffalo Transformation Fund. There will be a form that you can fill out. Fill out that form. The form does work. Again, my office has filled out the form for some constituents. I filled out the form. Those ideas, a couple of them I recognized are in here. So I'm just going to encourage everyone to please, if you were not able to go to that meeting last week Thursday, was it last week Thursday?
 Yeah, my days are off. Was it last week? Yeah. Well, if you were not able to go to that meeting, then please utilize that link on the city's website. And it's a little tough to find. So let me encourage you when you get there, it's not on the front page. So there is a menu that goes from left to right and you have to click over to move that over because you won't see it.
 Yeah, so make sure you click over and once you click over, I don't know, once or twice, then it comes up because I searched for it for a little while and Chief of Staff let
 someone else had their councilman Freeland yeah thank you I just want to say it's my understanding that what's filed here is just a draft and several organizations and groups such as art and cultural institutions in the Delaware District and other portions of the district I know are advocating for some of the funding and it's just my understanding that this is a draft this is a
 working piece and from what ultimately is proposed by the mayor may include some of this not include some of this and it's very flexible so I just am hoping that my understanding is the same understanding as everyone else absolutely that's my understanding so we are not and that's why it's going to committee and obviously we only have one more committee meeting before August and that's why it's so important that we feverishly get this done
 And then just a procedural question or clarification. The council does not vote on this item, correct? Not on this item. Okay. Because this isn't a final document. But when it's final, does the council? Absolutely. We will vote on the final budget. Okay. I'm almost positive. Is that correct? Okay.
 We'll check and make sure, but I would hope that we would vote on the final document. Yeah. We would ultimately, yeah, thank you. We would ultimately obviously have to vote to approve any expenditures down the road, but if Corporation Council could find out for us what actions we do need to take with regard to this plan once we do receive the final version. Absolutely.
 Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to make some clear be clear I know that there were some items in the proposal that included building of
 community centers and I believe some of the conversation that was said to us by Congressman Higgins office was that was not something that was allowable now I'm not going against any other councilmember I think that if you can get it I know myself and councilmember Ferraletto has been pushing for a multi-use facility in our districts but I really would like to know that answer if that's something that's allowable because I know that the mayor has gone and said that this was something that's gonna happen and I'm excited if it is
 But we just want to make sure, because I know that what we were told, that if we make any expenditure that is not allowable, we will have to pay that back.
 So I just want to be clear and make certain that if it's something that's allowable We absolutely want to do it but from the conversation that we had that was not something that was allowed But if we can make it happen and it's not something that's going to come back on us We absolutely want to do it. So I know that mayor's office is working with Corporation Council On each item they've been working and back and forth With the federal government to vet those out. Thank you. I
 Anything else, Councilmember Williams? Just for clarity, did the councilmember say that the proposal is proposing to build new facilities or renovate? There's several things dealing, one is building several and then the other, and I don't know what by heart is to improve several of them.
 On page nine, I've only seen that it says community center renovation program. I don't recall them building new centers, but I could be mistaken. And I think give us some time, everybody time to read it. It's going to finance, and then we can dig down further. Okay. Anyone else? All righty.
 So that you got a second on that? Motion to send to Finance. Motion to send to Finance, second by Councilmember White. Item number two, Fulwell Apartments LLC Pilot Program. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number three, Local Landmark 680 Amherst Street. Motion to send to Legislation. Second by Councilmember Ferreira. Item number four, Extension for Canuca. I'm sorry.
 And we probably have to go back to our old way. I can see you if you click in, and then that way I won't – I still probably miss you because we're still getting our sea legs back. Councilmember Golombi.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanted to mention on this item, this is the Volkers bowling lanes at the corner of Elmwood and Amherst, which has come back to us with a recommendation for landmarking. I'm sending this to committee because while I think that as per form,
 they have answered all the questions and approval is most likely warranted what i do have some questions on is the entire location of the bowling lanes if it is possible to only landmark
 the hotel version, you know, where the bar area would be, that's actually on the corner of Amherst and Elmwood, which has the two bowling signs on either side of it. So there's some legal questions I have, and also I've got a call in to an architect that I have a great deal of respect and esteem for, and I want to find out if the architectural design
 Sturdiness of the building, you know would be harmed if we only saved the one portion of the building Because I have questions about the two bowling lanes that were built. I think in 1941 in 1951 You know while I understand the historical nature of the corner building, you know the rest of the building I'm just not so sure on but these are legal issues that I want to make sure that we wrangle through and that we make a final decision
 on this so um this will be something that we'll probably decide upon sometime in uh september thank you mr president thank you sir anything else next time item number four extension for kanika partners llc motion to approve with conditions items four approve item five item six i'm not sure if that's an approval or not yes motion to approve item six as well
 Thank you. Second by Councilmember Bowman. And on item number four, which is a building on High Street in the Fruit Belt that when the RFP went out, the RFP was specific that the building had to be saved in some form. Sometimes the developer says they're having problems saving it, and sometimes they don't.
 At the end of the day, I'm not interested in leaving a building that is falling in, a building that has no windows, a building that has no doors, a building that has population of children around it. And so I do not agree with a one-year plan.
 uh... d a developer can't do it needs to go back out for our p and see if there's someone else out there who can do it uh... but holding that building for a year i believe will end up with demolition by neglect personally i would be okay if it was gone comes from a glum beckham probably fight me on it because it is a landmark building however at the end of the day if they're not going to do anything with it they need it
 Yeah, give it back. We need to take it back and find somebody else who does. So that's why that's for three months. Those are the conditions. Second by Council Member Fira Leto. Item number seven, report a cell. Oh, we already had it. We had it. We still, oh, we don't have to do roll call now, right? Because we're in person. I mean, relearning how to do the council is very tough.
 This is our first meeting back. We're ready to roll call. Matter of fact, I was looking for my Zoom camera, wondering why you all weren't on the Zoom. So...
 Next item. Item number seven, report a sale, 556 and 560, 7th Street. Motion to deny. Motion to deny. This may come back before us because I'm being told that the developer has money, has the plans. We just haven't seen it. So we're not going to start selling multiple lots and not seeing the proof. So we'll deny it and then they can send it back if they have that.
 Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number eight, Administration American Rescue Plan Act.
 Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number nine, certificate of necessity budget transfer for JFK Park police cameras. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. And on this item that's going to come up later, I'll just bring it up right now for people who are watching in that area. We've had several murders over near JFK in the basketball park.
 There's been a lot of crime at the football. So all this is is removing from my discretionary to buy the cameras for the basketball courts. And the neighbors are ecstatic and for the football field over there. So thank you for that. Did I give a second? All right. Next item. Item number 10, Allen Street Phase 2 Reconstruction. Motion to approve items 10, 11, and 12. Second by Council Member Golombet. Thank you.
 Item number 13, cash flow report for May 2021. Motion to send finance items 13 and 14. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 15, certificate of appointment for a community advocate to the controller. Motion to approve items 15...
 46. second by councilmember wingo item number 47 appoint director of fire personnel motion to send the civil service and my council member wingo corporation council item number 48 sean gaskin 150 000. motion to send to claims committee motion to send the claims committee uh is it all of these items uh 48 through 56
 Six. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. And to move things forward, I think that there's going to be a claims committee before next Tuesday.
 so that we can have a special meeting next Tuesday to do claims and for Commissioner of Public Works some last-minute items so do we get those out of the doors that he'll send you this week so that we continue in our construction efforts so we can count on a special meeting next Tuesday
 Item number 57, food store license, 1129 East Ferry Street. Motion to send to legislation items 57 and 58. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 59, mobile food truck catered to U Kitchen. Motion to approve. Seconded by...
 Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 60, restaurant dance license, Bella's Parkside Tavern. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Who has the floor? Thank you. Do you need the conditions read out or just submitted to? You can submit it. Okay, just want to make sure. Thank you. So this is a tavern. What time are you making them close? Five? Nine p.m. on weeknights for music. Item number 61, University Emergency Medical Services.
 Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 62, performance bond waiver for purchase of police vehicles. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Motion to approve items 62 and 63. Second by Council Member White. Item number 64, advertisement for Citizens Advisory Commission or reapportionment. Motion to receive and file item 64...
 through 67. second by councilmember norkowski item number 68 concerns for a salvation army proposal for 960 through 970 main street motion to send the cd item 68 through 72 second by president pro temp scanlon item number 73 council transcripts
 Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 74, support for a vacant city-owned lot cover initiative. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 75, special use permit 478-L for outdoor dining and tavern. Motion to send legislation to City Planning Board. Second by Council Member Ferreira. Submission list, community development. Item number 1, report is still 244-MAPLE.
 Motion is to deny item number one. The motion is to deny, second by Councilman Farilletto. For the record, this is being denied because of the asking price from the city for this lot, as was explained to us by our head of real estate last committee meeting, that the appraisal is based on, part of the appraisal based on closed properties, not those in contract.
 What we found out is that there were more than five, I believe, properties that have been closed and
 And at the average closing of a lot for this project has been $100,000. So to sell it for $9,000, it begs of a reappraisal before selling it, according to what we were told how an appraisal. So that may have been an old appraisal, but we want this to go back to real estate for some new numbers. Item number two, trailblazing sign for Jonetta Ramelco.
 So community development motion is to approve second by councilmember Wingo legislation item number three national fuel gas distribution motion to approve items three and four five with conditions and six and seven Six and seven second by councilman Bolton. Yeah alright say goodbye council enrollment and
 Item number eight, ordinance amendment chapter 479, adopt the street and park program. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Scanlon.
 Just a note for, did I, I gave you a second? Yeah. For item number seven, which was approved, which is the right to know law. There was a substitution. And I want to thank the clerk for just bringing that up. If the Corporation Council can just give us a bird's eye view, because I think there's some misunderstanding of what the right to know law is. It is not that a officer, let me let you give a bird's eye view on it.
 Thank you. Karen Gordon, Assistant Corporation Counsel. So this right to know law aims at protecting against the civil liberties of the individuals in the City of Buffalo, protecting their civil rights in the encounters that they have with the police department or individuals of the police department. Its hope is that by requiring individuals that are stopped
 violent traffic, so for vehicles that are stopped in motion, by requiring the police officers to at least provide a stop receipt to those individuals, especially in instances where those stops do not turn into an arrest or a summons or a fix-it ticket, that it will just encourage more transparency, more clarity, and give, I guess, the public more trust overall in the system. And so it does not...
 take away any rights and it does not make it more easy for individuals to skirt the law it just provides a layer of transparency through the provision of the stop receipts and also the business cards that police officers would be required to issue when they stop individuals on the street you know
 for inquiry, questioning, and so forth. Thank you. And they have to offer it, but not necessarily. What we didn't want to do, and some of the changes were made so that police officers in the field aren't standing there filling out paperwork all day, or if they're in an investigation, asking somebody for their name.
 um, an address because there's many neighborhoods. I don't want you coming up to me asking my name and right now to a receipt and all that. So a lot was adjusted by with suggestions of the district attorney's office. I want to thank the minority bar for participating. I believe Councilman window. Did you co sponsor this?
 This one, the co-sponsor also on this. And I'm going to say for the record, this is not, I keep saying everything that we've written so far is not punitive for police officers. This is about how do we build more trust? How do we, how do we ensure that, that the police officers and those good ones who are in the street are,
 are respected and we know who they are and that the people are respected and so at the end of the day i want to thank everybody this law went back and forth and back and forth and we just kept adjusting it to make sure that police officers aren't out there being uh clerks and also that people are have the opportunity to know who stopped me so that i believe it's a good law councilmember wingo thank you mr chair the uh
 The right to know law, the spirit behind it is to increase accountability with police officers. Police officers who are already doing what's right have nothing to worry about with giving folks their name and everything else regarding the stop. The right to know is, like you said, is not punitive.
 But this is a measure that is put in place to provide some level of accountability that will restore the relationship between the police and the community. And we need this system or this law to be put in place so that we can begin rebuilding that.
 that trust trust is not just given trust is something that's earned and I believe that this is something that is going to be pivotal in the relationship building between police community. That will ensure that folks begin to trust police officers again because again vast majority of officers are not bad but we do have some folks out there who are.
 Not as good as the rest, I should say. But at the end of the day, I really do believe that the rights to know law is a good step forward.
 in the right direction that will rebuild the trust and restore faith in our law department that they're not just being targeted, folks are not being targeted, and that when police officers do pull people over, they do have a legitimate reason. And then there's a record of that stop so that the constituent, the resident, the driver, whoever, the citizen can then have a reference number to that incident.
 It just keeps a lot of people honest, and that's, I think, what the spirit behind this is, and that's why I was happy to co-sponsor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Appreciate those comments. Anyone else? All right, next item. Item number 9, Ordinance Amendment Section 413-60, Inspection and Approval. Motion to approve Items 9 and 10. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 11, Special Use Permit 2227 South Park for Tobacco.
 Motion to recommit items 11 and 12. Second by Council Majority Leader, yeah, Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 13, Full Store License 360, William. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 14, endorsement of right to know law.
 Motion to receive and file items 14 and 15. Second by Council Member White. Item number 16, special use permit 311 Bryan Street for tavern and outdoor dining. This item's in the Niagara District. I think I had something that said approved with conditions. Motion is to discharge. Motion is to discharge. All right.
 This is the actual item. So it's approved or approved with conditions? It's going to be approved. I want to read some of the conditions. We had a number of residents that were in our committee meeting with some concerns. And we did try to mitigate as best we could between the neighbors and Mr. Constantino.
 The conditions are, and we'll submit them, is no music being piped into the patio, increase in the garbage totes that they have, no obstruction of egress or ingress. Hours of operation and days of operation will remain the same. And the last one is one year sunset. All right. That motion is to approve with conditions that have been read into the record and that will be submitted by the district council member.
 Police oversight item number 17 reports to the council motion to receive and file a dumb 17 through 21 second by the majority leader Resolutions item number 76 fee waiver for Springer Avenue National Night Out Black Party motion to approve items 76 through 78 second by councilmember Bowman item number 79 non-punitive traffic common measures to replace speed zone cameras, mr
 Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. President. As you know, this is our last meeting before the August recess, and we'll return back in September, and so will school. And this has been a long, arduous process with speed zone cameras, but they will be coming down in August. So this resolution speaks to the transition of speed zone cameras being replaced with radar speed signs.
 So far, council members, you know, in tandem with others have purchased almost 42 speed zone or speed radar signs to be used.
 Taken down and replaced directly in tandem. So when they are in DPW is to install them, you know as quick as they come in this process to me does not need to be complex as they come in they should just be replaced simply and on July 14th DPW has been given that list and
 those areas that have been requested to have those signs replaced with radar speed zones who which it has shown and studies have shown that it naturally calms down traffic I know it comes or you know it slows me down when I'm going around the Buffalo you know the zoo in our areas of the 198 when you're when you're getting off the 33 so
 I know that I have remained consistent and when I said that I was going to vote against the school's own cameras I said that I was going to replace them with non-punitive measures because I
 We don't want anyone to speed and I said that from day one and now it's nice to know that you know We have the funding available and our discretionary funds and that council members have joined in with us To purchase those and to when you take something down replace it with something to slow down traffic to keep Students safe as they as they return to school. Thanks. Absolutely. Thank you for work on it. I
 Anyone else? Councilmember Rippier. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, Commissioner Finn has started the procurement process for
 The speed cameras and there were people asking us only a few weeks ago What is the Common Council doing with regards to what you promised with regards to street calming infrastructure? And I said as a council member, I can only speak for myself that those That I would request from our member item money our initiative dollars that those cameras be put up and
 the neighborhood. We have to have those street cameras up and before school starts that is the goal to have those street stripes those cameras up and those neighborhoods that need speed bumps the rate of the speed cameras and those neighborhoods that need street calming as well because some of us ordered speed cameras or the speed
 that you can put in a certain neighborhood for a certain period of time, conditioned person or people and then you can move those cameras to other areas. These cameras have the ability to catalog data which is very important because that
 wherever the data tells us that's where their speeding is happening perhaps that's where police department need to do a little better enforcement so we've lived up to our commitment to the community we want to make sure that the procurement process moves expeditiously we want those speed readers up by the start of school so thank you very much to the Common Council members especially councilmember Rashid Wyatt because I think if we
 If we think of speed, speeding, and we think about cameras, we think of Councilmember White. I saw him on Facebook, so I see him everywhere now. He's a hero to a lot of people out there, so thank you for all the work you've done. Thank you. Anything else? Calm, sir. You're calm.
 First, I want to thank my colleagues for their support on this. And a lot of people have given me a lot of accolades, but you know, Councilman President, we can't do anything without six votes. So I thank them for standing with me through this whole process. And again, this is all about the will of the people. This ain't our will, you know, some of us may want to keep these cameras, but the fact
 how it impacted folks we had to take notice of. So I want to thank the folks who stood and continued to fight in the right way to address this. And, you know, I had to get a little emotional about it, but, you know, that's our job.
 It's my job to fight to the end for the folks that put me in office. It's not my will is their will So again, this could not happen without my colleagues This is actually a second resolution that was already in the first that councilmember. Noakowski. Thank you for putting it forth Was already there. So again, I'm just hopeful I know we had conversation with Commissioner Finn on that we can put this to bed and we can really focus on our
 We talk about safety for our children. Let's show that it's about the safety of the children. It's not a political thing. It really is about the safety of children. So, again, I thank my colleagues for their support and us doing what the will of the people is. Thank you. Absolutely. Anyone else? All right. Next slide. Item number 80, wage special event fee for Buffalo Niagara LGBTQ. 80? 80. 80.
 Motion to approve 80 through 83 second by council member Wyatt. Item number 85, Kleinhan's Music Hall Consolidated Funding Application. Approve. Approve. And can you turn on your mic for me? Is your mic on? Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 86, Opposition to Selling a Portion of Busty Avenue.
 Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to CD. Second by Council Member Golombak. Mr. Chairman, the state of New York is interested in selling two blocks of Bustay Avenue north of Vermont Street. They want to buy it from the city. West of that are two parcels of land owned, maintained by the Peace Bridge. They're green space and they're beautiful.
 And it's a buffer between the neighborhood and the Peace Bridge to the west of it. For many years, the residents have fought the Peace Bridge, trying to bring some certainty as to whether or not the plaza was going to expand. After years of not hearing anything, now we're hearing that they're interested. We've done everything we could to keep the Peace Bridge within the footprint that they're at right now.
 They reconfigured the plaza so traffic can move smoothly in and out. We did the connection project so that traffic could get right onto the Peace Bridge directly and off of the Peace Bridge going north. We did the pre-inspection. We supported the pre-inspection on the Canadian side so trucks weren't idling on the bridge or on the American side. Truck traffic and vehicle traffic is less today than pre-9-11.
 truck traffic to the United States from the Peace Bridge coming into the United States is less pre 9-11. There is no reason to encroach into the neighborhood. Those people have lived under the shadow all these years of uncertainty. Should I invest? Should I put money into the property? And here they are again worried that the Peace Bridge is doing something. So my resolve is Peace Bridge, New York State,
 Tell us whether or not you are planning to expand. The City of Buffalo, our resolve is no, we won't sell the property. We resolve that our state leaders represent the neighborhood that's there right now and the people that are frustrated and alarmed that they're going to look out their door and out their porch and out their window into a parking lot filled with trucks or even a duty-free parking.
 This is unacceptable. We want this administration, our Public Works Department, to refuse. If the state wants to fight it, let them fight it. Our state representative, this will go to our state representative, because people are just tired of this. I've been on this council 13 years and this has been going on long before I was a common council member. They're thinking about demolishing homes and crossing over.
 And every time the community is alarmed. So let's put this to an end. Let's tell New York State. Absolutely not. I will not vote to sell any portion of Bustay Avenue to the Peace Bridge or to New York State. Thank you.
 thank you council president um council member rivera knows his residents and the challenges that they experience more than any of us do and um having dealt with projects in the past that could possibly encroach on some of my residents i can understand completely where he's coming from and i don't think anyone could have sent it better than he just did so all i was asking is if you could please add my name to the resolution it would be okay with the sponsor and i totally agree with you and i'd ask that my name be added if you would allow me to be added councilmember nolikowski
 And as a former staffer to Councilmember Rivera, I've taken those calls and heard those concerns from his constituents, and I'd like to be added as well. Excellent. Councilmember White would like to be added, Councilmember Glumbeck, Councilmember Bowman, Councilmember Ferreira-Leto. Councilmember Wingo, the entire council would like to be added to your resolution. Peace Bridge Authority...
 They couldn't get out of their own way even about building a new bridge. And now here they come back again and do they want the property, don't they want the property? End of the day, sometimes you think it needs to be scrapped, the whole authority and done again. We've been through this, we've been at the crossroads. And Clean Air Coalition was one of the first people to bring me into this talk.
 about putting truck traffic right next to a neighborhood, you know, figure it out, figure it out, but stay out of the neighborhood. So thank you, Council Member Revere, for your leadership on this and the entire council supports you. Council Member Scala? I think if you want to scrap the authority altogether, start with your colleague from the North. No comment.
 Thank you all everyone is at it. I don't know item number 87 chapter 4 13 streets and sidewalks motion to approve item 87 88 and 89 second by president pro Temske item number 90 Commissioner of Deeds motion to adopt items 90 and 91 second by councilmember Wingo item number 92 fee waiver for Buffalo funk fest motion to approve items 92 through 82
 98 second by councilmember Wingo item number 99 has been withdrawn item 100 trailblazing sign for miss Mary Lee parks correction motion to approve second by councilmember Wingo who has the floor Thank You mr. chair just on 99 that was withdrawn I want to just thank all the council members who actually did well spoke to who supported
 the our funds to reduce gun violence in the city of Buffalo that is a serious issue and the reason why this resolution was withdrawn even after I spoke to all of you is because after we got the report from the mayor's office on what he's actually going to spend on gun violence the Neil Dobbins get it correct I want to get it correct
 the Neil Dobbins and this is just a proposal to but the Neil Dobbins restorative justice and public safety fund is Actually more than the amount that they had spoke about in the press release. So Again, just want to thank you all for your support To show that this council is going to do everything that we can to support the reduction of gun violence but
 We are withdrawing that because of the inconsistency with the information that was on here with what is in this proposal. And if they just feel the need to give more funding to the Neil Dobbins Restorative Justice and Community Safety Fund, then they can do that too. But thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, and I've spoken before, and I want to make sure the public knows that this is a proposal. It does not mean that $6 million, $5 million, or $2 million will go to any initiative until this council
 has met, deliberated, worked with the administration, and we figure out what's going on. So I just, I want to be clear there, and so that we don't confuse the public that this means that that is what is going to happen. We will work together. Anything else?
 Next item. Did we call item number 100? Did we call item number 100? We can call it again. Yes. I thought we did. What is second? Second was Council Member Wingo because it was his item. Perfect. Thank you. Item number 101, exploration of city manager model governance. This is a late file. It's a late file. There was no objections. Council Member White, you're on the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I put this forward after thinking long and hard.
 You know, my background is in management finance. I've worked for organizations and prepared mission statements and accountability plans and reward and recognition things. Did so many of those things. And coming to the Senate government, I was really taken aback how dysfunctional it is.
 dysfunctional to an extent that he just talked about an issue that there was a conversation about how this money and how this plan would be rolled out that the council and administration would come together with a formal plan but they still decided to submit something a proposal why
 We were always this pull, push me, pull me. We're always behind the guns. We're always on the opposite side of delivering for the people. That's our primary responsibility. Not to, as former Council President Franczak said, to the 1% or those who have well to do, for the will of the people. My antics for the school cameras was indicative of the will of the people.
 Many of my colleagues are responsible for the will of the people. For decades, we've had a strong mayor governance that has really not moved the needle on the real issues of the quality of life of people we represent. We can talk about downtown and the nice, shiny objects and the beautification, the canal side, all that's wonderful.
 But at the end of the day, the people who we represent, many of them are from the east side, west side, and feel like they've been marginalized. They don't feel like they've been heard. And a lot of times it's because of the strong mayor form of government. The mayor feels he can dictate all the issues and we kind of follow.
 In my role, after I became acclimated to what my role really was, I recognize that it's my responsibility as elected official by the people to do their will. As much as I would like to do a whole lot of things my way, it's their way.
 I think the situation we're in right now, where we have a zero fund balance and then had to fight to put forth legislation to fund a fund balance that is manageable for a multi-million dollar organization, there's no organization of our size that I would have ever worked for that would have allowed for us to function without a reserve.
 It's things like that that, again, lend itself to the dysfunction and some of the real numbers when we talk about poverty. Since 1980, we look at poverty numbers from 26%. And here we are in 2000. That number is 31%. Even though we have less population, what do we do? And, Council President, you say this to me quite often. What's the resolution? You're a lawmaker. You're a lawmaker.
 You can moan and cry and complain, but you're in a seat of power. What are you going to do with it? So I'm putting forth this resolution for us to explore another means of delivering services to people. People who are professional. A city manager is a professional. He's not someone that's concerned about elections and those things. His job is professional. Outcomes for the people who report to.
 Your city manager will be elected by the common council in conjunction with the community because he still has a role or she has a role to interact with the community. I think if we continue to go with this form of government, we're derelict in our responsibility because I am sick and tired of hearing the moniker, the third course or fourth course or fifth course. Why?
 Why are we still poor when we've had billions of dollars come through the city of Buffalo? Why are we still poor? I scratch my head and say, would any organization
 continue to function at a deficit, knowing that they've had issue after issue. They would fix it. A CEO worth his salt would be fixing this problem. They wouldn't be complaining. They wouldn't just be interested in getting their payday. They would be interested in getting the payday of the will of the people they represent. So I hope that my colleagues would explore this because again, the city of Buffalo is a poor city.
 Why do we continue to do the same things we've always done to get the same results we've always gotten? Yes, we can talk about the shiny objects downtown and some of our districts have gotten some positive things that they can tout. But the majority of folks and many of the people that I represent on the east side feel a certain kind of way. That billions of dollars have come through the city of Buffalo.
 but their community has not changed. I can tell you where I lived many years ago, right near Burgard High School, and I can tell you Burgard High School, where I live, is not the same community, is not the same area. And that's no disrespect to anybody. My comments are based on a system, not an individual, a system that continues to deliver, not deliver, for the community. And if we continue to stay on this path,
 We are what they call insane. It's insanity. We cannot, we must not, and we should not. So I thank you, Mr. Chair, for this, and I hope that we can adopt this for the Common Council staff to revisit the pros and the cons, and also to hear from experts.
 to bring experts in. I'm hoping that once this is done, that we have many conversations about the benefits of a new formulation of governance. It's not about an individual. It's about a process. It's about a system of delivering excellence to the community. Thank you, sir. And just to be clear, this is for asking for an exploration. Yes, just for exploration. So again, I don't want people out in the public to think we're getting ready to vote on a city manager. It's asking to look into it and bring back a report. Council Member Glumbert?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I remember it was about 12 years ago I did the same thing that Councilmember Wyatt is doing right now. I had representatives from the
 International City Managers Association come in and they talked in front of the council. I think we had a special hearing. There were a couple of other local meetings. I was working at that time with Human Resource Commissioner Len Mattarese, who came out of the city managers type of government. And while I was never 100% solidly sold on the city manager form of government,
 I was very supportive of the discussion. And in retrospect, I was always sort of glad that it never really took off. Because one of the criticisms, as I read into it more on my own, was that things like the city manager form of government came into existence in the early 20th century when
 There was a fear of people that were living in cities, people like us that are sitting here, black people, ethnic people, et cetera, and the old white Anglo-Saxon Protestant ruling elite saw themselves losing power. And so there was an attempt to sort of corral
 government so that it wouldn't be power to the people any longer, but it would be power to an authority. And that was one, you know, while I'm still somewhat ambivalent on the city manager form of government, we should take a look at what the rationale was for
 you know, for those governments, because we were just criticizing an authority that is nebulous. And Mr. Scanlon mentioned that I've had my issues with authorities because they're nebulous. And, you know, when you attack an authority, there's no real person that you're attacking or whatnot.
 You know, but I commend and I support this 100%, but I hope that we get some of the history of that as well. Because when the ICMA people came in to give their talks, they never talked about that. That was me reading a couple of things on my own, and when I brought it up, it was like, wow.
 Oh, that's what it was 100 years ago. That's not really what it is today. But while it has its pluses and its negatives, the closest I could explain it to would be like sort of the Board of Education. You have nine school board members that select a superintendent. And the problem then, of course, is that I voted for a school board member, but I didn't get to vote for the superintendent.
 that's one of the criticisms that you have with the city manager form of government. You know, well, I voted for you, but I didn't vote for them. And, you know, so I commend it, and I think it's very, very good to explore it. And that's why I wanted to make it plain that what Mr. White is asking for is let's look at it. I don't think it hurts anything to look at it. Council Member? Thank you.
 Thank You council president I'd like to be recorded and then I get up on this a Council member the the sponsor mentioned council member Wyatt mentioned a few times a couple of things. I just wanted to respond to and He mentioned that no Organization or business that he would have worked with would let its reserves dwindle down to the point it that they have I just want to remind everyone that
 this council also plays a role in that process and if we go back in six seven years ago i recall being the first one down here yelling about the reserves and the reserves being used and no one seemed to want to take um agree with me at that point and i was yelling about it then but again this council approves any budget that is proposed to it so again this council is if that's a major point of contention that then
 Think we also have to realize that this council is complicit in that As far as the concern that someone a mayor being concerned about elections and things of that nature I'd rather have someone be appointed by thousands and tens of thousands of people then I believe he referenced the council member referenced being appointed or Selected by the council where you only need five people you only need to I
 and that i think that quite frankly leads to what could lead to some nefarious behavior when you only need five votes instead of tens of thousands of votes so again for those reasons some others i i don't agree with the city manager position in this instance so i'd like to be recorded in the negative court council member in the negative council member wingle
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. You can record me the negative as well, because as I'm reading this here for the first time, I'm not necessarily seeing how this would be any more equitable than what is already in place. And Council Member Scanlon had already spoke on one of my points, which is this body votes on all of the budgets every year that the mayor presents to us in May.
 We have a hand in that. And then for this council to select a city manager, that means we will become that person's boss, which means there is no more balance of power, which takes away the city executive branches independence, which means we now become managers of the city as a quasi board of directors. That then becomes an oligarchy.
 because now you have the masses being run by a select few, the nine of us. I am not willing to do that. I did not sign up to be a manager. I signed up to be a legislator to write policy laws, and that's why I would like to be recorded in the negative, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? All right, second button. Mr. President, I can just make one final comment. Yes, sir.
 You know, we legislate and we're responsible in certain areas, but then we ask for information, and we can't get information. We have to make decisions based on documentation, information, data, and we don't get that information.
 So I understand and respect my colleagues as their choice not to support, which I truly understand. But there's numerous instances. There's not one or two or three or four or five or six or seven or eight or nine or 10 or 11 or 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 or 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 or 20 or 21 or 22 or 23 or 24 or 25 or 26 or 27 or 28 or 29 or 26.
 31 or 32 or 33. There's not just that many instances. There's so many that we should look at this. So thank you, Mr. Chair, for adopting and researching. All right. Thank you. This is going to, where are you asking for it to go? Legislation, please. On legislation. So you're just asking to send the whole thing to legislation? Yes, sir. All right. Any other discussion? Council Member Rivera? Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As I listened to the back and forth,
 conversations both for it and against it i think that's a good thing i think to have this kind of exchange of ideas and models it doesn't mean we agree to it at the very end
 We can say no for the very reasons that some of the members mentioned here, but at least there's an exchange of ideas, input. And I think that's very important as well, that we do look at things. And at the very end, we can say, hey, I don't think it'll work for us for the very reasons that people mentioned here. So at least for the sake of having us look at it and discuss it, how far it goes, I really don't know.
 I'm not on one side or the other on this right now, but I'm willing to listen and to learn a little bit about it and the history, as Councilmember Golumbik mentioned, I don't even know the history of it. But it's something I'm willing to listen to. So thank you for at least bringing it up where we can have that discussion. And I tend to agree with you. It's a study. It's just looking at, because it might not be this model, and out of looking at different forms of government,
 this city might create something brand new or it may leave it the same and now we know why we left it the same but i agree with the majority leader that this is healthy
 it's beyond healthy it's responsible to have the dialogue to have the input uh so I do look forward uh to um the study now you said you wanted to just send the item did you want to adopt and send the reminder I wanted to send okay yes sir I doubted I'm the rest to a legislation thank you Council member and and again we record Councilmember Wingo Councilman Scanlon negative
 Councilman Freeland. Thank you very much. I just had a quick question for Corporation Council. If the city, and I'm not to get ahead of ourselves because I know this is just to look at, but if the city was making a change to its model of government, isn't that something that would have to go to a referendum eventually, just so we know the process? Assistant Corporation, Assistant Corporation, Councilor Karen Gordon. Yes, that's correct, but that's way,
 Like in the long run, because there are so many steps prior, the city is still governed by the Constitution of New York. We have to look at that first and whether or not that would permit and what it would allow before we even get to the point of eventually if, you know, something like that has to change, of course, it would be a referendum issue. But I guess we're not there yet.
 Thank you. Did that answer it? And I wasn't on the council, but I was a, I don't even know if I was pastoring then, when this council changed the amount of council members that was here. And I know that he said it jokingly earlier, you know, I was very much against this council downsizing and many of the areas that downsize now are turning it around and adding because it was just too much work on some of the towns and villages.
 And that's just about looking at government and different ways to do it. But, you know, this is going to committee and be a lot more discussion. People can write white papers on it. I think it is important to hear and to learn and to figure out, do we stay the same? Don't we stay the same? But ultimately, the persons who would figure that out would be the citizens, the voting citizens because it would, it's an uphill battle because you got to get state and you got to get people, but we learned something in the process.
 Anything else? All righty. That's second by Council Member White. Your mic went off. Can we get our clerk another mic, or she will get it herself. Next item. I think even the mics are not used to being back in chambers. I mean, everything is not used to it. Item number 102. Thank you, Malcolm. Request parking commissioner to issue ticket refunds. Motion to Mayor Wiener.
 Item 102 motion to adopt Senator to legislation second by councilmember white was the floor. Thank you. Mr. President. This is extremely important again The cameras we voted was passed by law on June 15th and people continued to get tickets after that and it was stated that the
 because the reason they got tickets because the legislation in the write-up said september one well i don't think anyone expected us to give tickets over the summer and we were told that we had to notify the vendor of the termination so
 that you would not think that people would continue to get tickets, but they are. And so I think as the right thing to do, because we passed that legislation on the 15th of June, that anyone who got a ticket after the 15th of June should be made whole. And no percentage should go back to the vendor. It should be the person being made whole. Because we passed a law, it was not
 approved or denied by the mayor and therefore the camera system should have been stopped on that day. I am told by a number of folks that they believe the cameras are still on, they're still taking pictures. So in this resolution, I'm asking that the parking commissioner comes before this committee next week and answers to us those questions that are these cameras still on? Are people still getting tickets?
 I'm hopeful they're not because I believe that he has the authority to approve those tickets before they go out. But I would like to hear from him and how this is happening and when these tickets, the refunds are going to go out and if there's any ticket that has not been.
 that has been processed at the 15th, and it's voided, as well as an update on what we initially requested on the tickets from October that people got the money. So on the next week, I'm hopeful that the public will be aware because I've seen on Facebook where people are still confused. They don't know, is this thing off or is it on?
 as the legislation is written it should be off but i can't tell you for certain because i have not been to every camera um but again i'm looking forward to the parking commissioner coming and giving us an update on where we are in that that matter thank you yes thank you for letting me co-sponsor this with you um i do think it's important that when we voted and it's very clear and i know there was some comment about
 which date was correct. And our Corporation Counsel is here. I think one date was basically about the equipment coming down and the other date was about the tickets. So because there is not... There was only one date? Which one?
 All right, so we are corporate and corporation council can opine if you'd like to because I think that if there is only one date, then we have to figure that out and make sure because what our corporation council you.
 I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. Chair Williams. Chair Williams. Thank you, Chair Williams. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak. I'm going to ask the Chair to speak.
 absolutely but there were some the reason i supported this is that there was a question on when the camera should be on and who was authorized to have it on and i believe by the compromise that was made it would have necessitated the council member to make an exception of the hours
 And if that did not occur and those hours were changed by the administration, then it went against the compromise that was worked out. And so that's why I was willing to support it so that we can dig down and figure out who should be getting refunds and who shouldn't. And again, Mr. President, it goes against the.
 the actual resolution said it said immediate passage after we voted and so again the question is again this and this nebulousness of whatever we put forth is always a question back and forth but we could I would love a written opinion on that absolutely thank you councilman Wingo thank you I'm wondering
 I do agree that if anyone received a ticket outside of the window that was allowed when these cameras were turned off, they should be refunded. I do believe that.
 the cameras still have a use to capture information. And I'm wondering if these speed readers will capture the same data that the speed cameras can capture. Speed cameras are cameras, whereas the radars are just radars without the ability to read license plates and other type valuable information that we could possibly use in other applications. So I'm just wondering,
 if my colleagues would be amenable to researching whether or not if the cameras stay up, that we'd have the ability to
 the speed of vehicles, but again, more information. I know that there are folks who are complaining about Big Brother watching, but if you're not breaking the law, you have nothing to worry about. I'm just curious if that's something that my colleagues would be amenable to discussing and looking into. I'm not sure that could happen because I believe the cameras themselves belong to the vendor.
 So we would have to, and I may be out of school, but we would have to then continue a relationship with the vendor. And the vendor isn't, you know, they're going to want to charge us for that. So I'm not sure how, you might want to look into it, but I don't, I'm not sure. Once we end this contract, we have to give them back their equipment. Yeah, okay. Now with the radar, the speed radars, is there a subscription to that program? No.
 I know that the readers have a cost, but is there a subscription? They just upload information free to a cloud and we just download the information from there? There's no subscription because all it's doing is reading.
 how it does if it's doppler or whatever but it's just reading from what i know when i looked at the description it's just reading the speed of that vehicle and just showing it in real time um but i'm not sure if there are other
 If there is other equipment that may capture that information so that if there needed to be further safety measures in that area, there could be. And we can look into that and see the cost and the interest of this council. But the ones we ordered now, I believe, just put out information. Thank you.
 Councilman Freer, go ahead. It doesn't have to do with speed, but one of the things that I sent in the email to you and the administration with the funding is I know some municipalities, and some people say it's great, some people say it's other, is a technology that tracks, supposed to track gunshots. And I believe the administration is looking
 into it. The technology is called ShotSpotter. And I know I've heard there's different people have different opinions on it. And it's not, I don't think anyone thinks it's a one size fits all approach. But speaking of technology and looking at things, I think I'd certainly support looking into that as one tool in a large toolbox of addressing violence and other ideas.
 And I know the DA reached out to many of us on that, and so if you could include that in your request, it would help me, because I'll forget and I'll go asking them for shots fired. I don't know what the name of it is. So thank you.
 councilman thank you in response to councilmember ferletto uh that was already submitted into the proposals uh that were given to uh the mayor through the buffalo transformation fund website and i do believe we saw that reflection in the neil dobbins uh crime safety fund that they have for the city of buffalo and that is actually included in there once i've read
 read the description, conformed with administration staff, that is actually something that they have included. And a shot spotter, just so we're all aware of what that is, it's technology that allows information to be immediately uploaded to the crime analysis center so that dispatch can then give the information directly to the police department who can then go to the location where the shots were fired without any delay.
 folks deciding whether or not they want to be involved and the shots fired phone call or not. So it allows us to have more specific data, data where we have these hotspots in the City of Buffalo and hotspots are just areas in the city where we have a concentration of crime. It can help us to better determine where these hotspots are, where shots are fired, where they're fired more prevalent in that case because of the appendices that we received.
 that coincided with the proposal that the mayor sent us. I'm not sure if it was Appendices A1 or 2, I think it was page number 2, in the appendices that shows you in the legend the yellow circles were where shots were fired with injury. No, no, no. Yeah, yeah, injury. The red circles were where shots were fired with fatalities. And then the blue circles is where just there were reports of shots fired. There were no blue circles.
 on that map. So what we want to do is make sure that, you know, we have technology that will aid the, you know, law enforcement in finding out where these
 shots are being fired from maybe you can then ascertain other information based off of location things that they have in their ability thank you mr chair and i think that the da wanted to make sure we had it included because a grant is expiring i still want you to put it in the in your request document because as we are massaging this budget if that's something important from the council i want to make sure that that's presented so that that part would not be massaged out
 Yeah. Anything else on that? Okay. Item number 103, transfer of funds, police furniture and equipment. Motion to approve. Second by council member Wyatt. Councilor- Yeah, can we revisit item number seven in legislation? Item number seven in legislation?
 Second by council, moved by council member Rivera, second by council member Scanlon. It's in front of us. Thank you. I would like to be recorded in the negative on this. I am not categorically against the right to know. There are a few components of it I'm not completely comfortable with. I think council member Rivera made a very good point earlier talking about
 discussing ideas, throwing ideas back and forth. I have some things I want to talk to the sponsor about and moving forward, maybe we can revisit this down the line. But just as currently constituted, I'm not completely comfortable with it. So I just for the time being, I'd like to be recorded in the negative and hopefully down the road, a brief comeback and readdress this local law. I hope we don't have to come back and readjust. It's going to be law, but I got you and I appreciate your comments. Please record the motion.
 Yeah, please record Councilmember Scanlon in the negative on the right to know. Thank you. And Councilmember Golombet. Oh, did you want to speak or no? He just said, that meant negative. Record those two in the negative on that item. Anything else? Yes. So the committee meeting, we can still do virtual right with.
 So we originally were going to do the committee meeting virtual But it seems as if we must come back now into chambers because the governor's order has expired so we will from here on out and
 uh be uh here in the chambers and the yeah exactly uh president pro temp put up this like the fingers crossed fingers crossed a lot of prayer we will be here the public is allowed because we don't have access to them through zoom
 But yeah, the public is allowed. There are some restrictions still here in City Hall, although I'm not sure what they will be on that date. So just make sure you have your mask to the public just in case, because I don't know how things are changing and the number, you know, things are fluid and things could change overnight as we saw during the pandemic. So we will be here, live and in living color.
 Announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on claims, Monday, July 26, 2021 at 11 a.m. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, July 27, 2021 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil services, Tuesday, July 27, 2021 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, July 27, 2021 at 1 p.m.
 Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, July 27, 2021 at 2 p.m. And special committees, Committee on Education will be Tuesday, July 27, 2021 at 11 a.m. All the following meetings will be still streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Council members, any announcements? All right, hearing none, I'm not going to delay. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Brian J. Bowman.