Okay, we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. Here.
 President Pro Tem Scalin? Present. Council Member Wingo? Present. Council Member Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag, the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you. I thought,
 I would start today by quoting a well-known ordained Baptist minister, the late Congressman John Lewis, and the thoughts that he had on Luke chapter 6. These are his words. I'm deeply concerned that many people today fail to recognize that the movement was built on deep-seated religious convictions, and the movement grew out of a sense of faith, faith in God, and faith in one's fellow human beings.
 We'd ask questions about what would Jesus do. In preparing for the sit-ins, we felt that the message was one of love, the message of love in action. Don't hate. If someone hits you, don't strike back. Just turn the other side. Be prepared to forgive. That's not anything any constitution says about forgiveness. It's strength from the scripture, reconciliation. I'm deeply moved by those words, really.
 I'm deeply moved at his passing and the legacy that the late congressman leaves behind and those of you who serve in public office. And what his words remind and stir in my heart and soul. And the ordained Baptist minister in him that comes out so wonderfully in that quote.
 Last night I had an unusual opportunity. Reverend Terry King from Saving Grace Ministries reached out to me. He had a group of mostly Caucasian pastors who he wanted to bring to the Underground Railroad Church. And many of you have been to the old Michigan Street Baptist Church. And we couldn't go in because of COVID, but we gathered outside. And Bishop Henderson, come on now, Bishop Henderson, Bishop Henderson.
 He's been doing this a very long time. Some of you have been on his precious tours and to see him, frail as he is now, mask in place because of COVID, but taking us back to the living history of this city that's so wonderfully framed at the Michigan Street Baptist Church as a primary stop on the Underground Railroad. Just a couple of thoughts that came to me last night as I stood there.
 The first was that that church is living history here in our city. This isn't a museum they built to put artifacts in. The church itself stands as a living monument, a testimony of how it was that this church held safe runaway slaves that had made huge sacrifices and faced death.
 either being deported back or and arrested. But they fought for freedom and came through our city in that
 freedom flight. And it was interesting, Bishop talked about the white grocer up on the corner that if they couldn't find the church, they were told to go to the white grocer and he'd direct them because there were a whole lot of people involved in that struggle in our city. And finally, the Native Americans that rode the boats filled with escaped slaves across the Niagara River to freedom in Canada.
 You know, this city, when it worked together across all those lines, was the freedom portal. And I believe that's still our call today. Bow with me as we pray. Father, thank you so much for the words of the late Congressman Lewis. Thank you for his fight for civil rights. And Father, for what he framed and modeled along with so many of his friends and colleagues. Thank you for all those that stood for so much.
 and the price they paid for freedom. And then last night at the Underground Railroad Church, I was reminded of all those and the price they paid for freedom right here in Buffalo, New York. Lord, thank you that that fight still continues today. Show us your way, your path forward to being instruments of change.
 policies and procedures in place to make Buffalo a better place for everyone, all, and that, Lord, any that are down, any that are on the bottom side, even as some of these leaders have modeled for us, Lord, we even step now into your words in Luke chapter 6, like Congressman quoted.
 Thank you, Father, for this meeting. You know, it's very full and there'll be busy staff in all of all the offices for the month of August. But Lord, I pray even now that during that month, you'll grant some rest to everyone that's involved in making this city better. Thank you, Lord, that you're with us today in your precious son's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members in the memoriams. Council member Golombeck.
 Thank you Mr. President. Nancy Pohanczyk passed away this past week. They were former Riverside residents. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her husband Gene and their daughter Melanie who works for the Buffalo Police Department as a report technician. Died very young, early 60s, mid 60s, but also Mildred
 went by Pat Denver passed away, a longtime Black Rock resident. She's going to be sorely missed by her family and friends, especially her husband, Richard, and her sister, Donna Spinda. That's a big name in Riverside because of the involvement that her and her husband and her family have had. These are going to be two people whose shoes are going to be very difficult to fill.
 Thank you, Councilmember. Anyone else? Councilmember Bowman. Thank you, Council President. I'd like to take a moment to remember Sarah Gangel, who passed away at the young age of 25 last week. Her mother, Sandy Robinson, and Pastor Luther Robinson are community leaders in the Lovejoy neighborhood.
 Sarah was instrumental in helping them open their business, the Speakeasy Restaurant on Lovejoy. And her family's passion for community service really rubbed off on Sarah, and she was always willing to help in the neighborhood. So we just wanted to take some time to remember Sarah and her family and lift them up at this difficult time. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member Wyatt? Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to honor the legacy of John Lewis, losing him.
 brought to us, to me, a reality about our civil rights moment. He was the youngest speaker during the March on Washington, and he was the last living speaker from that time. And as you've seen in the news stories about his life,
 You couldn't help but to understand where we are standing here today. And it seems to me as he passes on, he passes the baton to us,
 at a critical juncture in our country, that we should be standing up and fighting and be unafraid to take a beating or to be beat to our death for others. And he did that. And he was very passionate. He wasn't the most eloquent speaker, but he had power. His family called him preacher, which I was amazed at.
 And if you listen to him speak, many times he sounded like a preacher because he spoke with much vigor and enthusiasm about his conviction.
 And he was awarded by the first African American president, Barack Obama, the highest honor as the Medal of Freedom. And I just want to read an excerpt from what the president said on that day about this man and that on this day that we will remember him and his legacy.
 There's a quote, it's been inscribed over a door in Nashville, where students first refused to leave lunch powders 51 years ago this February. And the quote said, if not us, then who? If not now, then when? It's a question John Lewis has been asking his entire life.
 It's what led him back to the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma after he had already been beaten within an inch of his life days before. It's why time and again he faced down death so that all of us could share equally in the joys of life.
 It's why all these years later, he is known as the conscience of the United States Congress, still speaking his mind on issues of justice and equality. And generations from now, when parents teach their children what is meant by courage, the story of John Lewis will come to mind. An American who knew that change could not wait for some other person or some other time, whose life lesson is the fierce urgency of now. God bless Congressman John Lewis.
 Thank you, Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We want to acknowledge the families of Johnny Mae Thomas, who passed away last week. She was laid to rest yesterday. And the family of Bernice Jenkins Lawson, who passed away just a couple days ago. She'll be laid to rest on Thursday. Just to reflect on the sentiments that we've already kind of shared regarding Congressman
 John Lewis, I wanted to read a post that I put up on Facebook the day that I had come to the knowledge that he had passed away. And this is on my Facebook page. And I quote myself, says, who will be the conscience of Congress now? Although Representative John Lewis held this moniker for decades, he was still more than that. He was a physical embodiment of a civil rights movement that we could touch, hear and see.
 He was a constant reminder that struggle makes you stronger when you can forgive and move forward with purpose. He was the epitome of advocacy in public service, and his legacy will write the our story for generations to come, establishing the gold standard of civil rights work. To answer my own quandary of who will be the conscience of Congress, we will. But more than that, we will be the conscience of the country, and we will honor
 our beloved Representative Lewis by voting in mass to restore the sanctity of the highest office in this republic to an individual who understands its power, accountability, and responsibility. Rest in his presence, Representative Lewis, and I'm a gratitude Councilmember Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr. There were only two people in the country that I had wanted to meet in my short 40 years
 And one of those people was Representative John Lewis. The other person is, of course, the first African-American president, Barack Obama. But there have been colleagues of mine who have gone to Washington, who have met Mr. Lewis, who have shaken his hand, who have taken pictures with him. And just to be around him, I could only imagine the aura that he gave off.
 The country should be condoling, should be in condolences. We should all offer the country condolences, I'm sorry, for the loss that we are experiencing through John Lewis. And as I think about all of the role models that we have left, he left a huge void. He left a huge void. That's not to say anything less of anyone who we still have with us, but the loss of John Lewis will leave a huge void.
 So I'm asking that all Americans everywhere pray for the family of John Lewis and pray for us younger elected officials who looked up to people like John Lewis. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Anyone else? I'll just say rest.
 All right, hearing none other, we always remember our men and women who have given their life since our last meeting. And of course, during COVID, we are thanking our essential workers who have really been the frontline of this battle. For all of those who've been acknowledged, this council pauses for a moment of silence. Thank you. Thank you for the appropriate words for all
 So that the public understands, we first apologize for signing on late. We had several items that came to us that are very important that are going to be moved to the top of the agenda. And when we do that, we have to regenerate what's called regenerate our agenda, which we have to wait on the computer. But all council members were ready for you at 2 o'clock, but we had to wait on the computer to regenerate that. But I want to apologize to the public for that.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on July 7, 2020 are approved. Council members, you finally have the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are in front of you?
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right, to pause the meeting if you need to review an item. There are, as I just said, two items that the majority leader is going to take out of order because we do have our attorneys on and they are of utmost importance. So we're not going from the top. What's the number we're calling? Council President, we're going to take items. Oh, I'm sorry. Did we do the roll? Yeah, we did. Go ahead.
 Council President, we're going to take items 46 and 45 out of order in that order. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 46, City Hall and Buffalo Police Day Quarter Security. This item is open. Thank you.
 This item is open and we have Corporation Counsel and representatives from the law department who are going to briefly explain because this is a late file, and I know the public may have not have had a chance to peruse this item. I would ask that when Corporation Counsel or whoever is coming on Ms. Chambers, that you would just briefly describe the item and then why this item is in front of us.
 Good afternoon, Council. Thank you for having me today. My name is Kevette Chambers. I am the Senior Deputy Corporation Counsel for the City of Buffalo. Thank you for reviewing the item. The first item that we're reviewing today is the request that was submitted by the Police Department to rescind the prior award of the contract to secure a remedy. The
 The reason why this is being rescinded is because the department will no longer continue with the procurement of services through Secure Remedy and instead has filed an extension for G4S.
 So we will ask that that initial approval be discontinued. The vendor has already been notified that the city will no longer be continuing with the contracting process with them and that we will issue a new request for proposal in the future.
 Um, uh, corporation council, just so that the council members who are just getting this, and I know this question is about to come at, come to you right now. Is there a reason that we're rescinding this contract?
 Well, the contract was not actually formalized. It was merely the approval to enter into the contract. And what was stated in the item is that the vendor, unfortunately, was not able to satisfy all of the requirements that were contained in the request for proposal.
 So because of that, and to ensure that there was no gap of services, because the council has previously approved a 30-day extension with our current vendor, and they could not guarantee, and in fact, they were not able to actually secure it, then that's what really stopped that procurement with that vendor. All right. Council members, any questions? No.
 of council member white council member and council president i appreciate them rescinding this because it was a mess from day one and for us to accept this i think it's in the right because g of gf4s was mistreated and they weren't
 treated fairly. I don't own stock, none of my family works for G4S, but they were done wrong. And I put forth a resolution asking for the information on this process because we were deceived by the police department. We were deceived by the police department.
 And for that to happen, we should not sit on our hands and not go without investigating what went wrong. Because how do we deal with the issues that we're dealing right now? And many people complain about the trust of the police department.
 We are an elected body and we were presented misinformation. And although some in the administration would say the council member called their person a liar, if you review the video, they did lie.
 So I want a full investigation of when we're wrong because it's not right. And if we allow this to happen and that the council has been deceived, what else will we let happen to us? Responsibility. We have the authority to make decisions and we cannot make sound decisions without good information. Right.
 Good information, trusted information, especially when it comes before a body that we all expect to be trustworthy. Thank you, Mr. President. Council Member Revere. Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with the approval to rescind.
 the contract with Remedy. Over the year that I've worked with G4S, I have been impressed by their professionalism, the quality of work. So when they didn't apply, it certainly brought up concerns to many of the council members, and I think we've all have spoken on this. I
 the security of City Hall and the Police Department is essential. These are armed guard that provide services to all of those facilities, including the general public. So I am happy today, one, to approve the recension, and secondly, at some point, to approve the extension for G4. I can understand the concerns that Council Member Rasheed Wyatt had. I was on those concerns.
 Zoom meetings with the police department and there wasn't very much clarity. And I hope going forward, there's more clarity, especially during the request for proposal as we move forward in the next few months for the new contract that's going to be coming before us after July of next year. So I agree with the approval of the resension. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
 Anybody else? I will just say I agree with the approval. I just want to be clear on the bid process. I don't prefer one company over the other. I just want the best company that wins the bid legally. But I think this had some questions. So the reason for the recension ultimately is that the company who got it, the company
 obviously is not ready to go forward. And so I agree with this also. All right. Motion. Motion to approve. Motion to approve second by council member Wingo.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Winkle? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 45, approval to extend contract with G4S Solutions. Item number 45, approval to extend contract with G4S Solutions. Item's open.
 This item is open. Any discussion? All right. Councilmember Rivera? Mr. Chairman, this is an extension to the contract taking effect August 1st through June 30th of next year. In between that time, a request for proposal will be going out. And as you mentioned before, other folks will be able to bid on it. So motion is to approve. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Who has support?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say much respect to G4S. You know, they were treated unfairly, but still stayed to do the business of the people. And I have much respect for them in doing that. I know that they lost many employees through this process because they didn't work on getting their contract. And so I'm hopeful they'll be able to reassemble those great employees,
 Again, I don't have any stock in the organization. I don't have any family members that work there, but I just want the fundamental fairness for this process. So again, I congratulate them on this one-year extension. They've shown over the last five years, they've done a huge Herculean job in building out the infrastructure for what we currently have and work great with our residents. So again, thank you to them for their patience and hopefully they can continue to do a great job for the citizens of Buffalo. Thank you.
 and there will be a bidding process just so that the public knows a fair bidding process and that does not guarantee that the company who this extension is being given would be the winning bidder
 but just asking for a clear process. And I think the winning bidder, so because I don't want to scare people away going to counsel as in love, we're not with the company, so we don't want to bid because legally you have to accept all bids that come in the same way. Do we have any information law department or of when the RFP, I know we're extending this for a year. So do we know about when RFP will come back out?
 Uh, Kevette Chambers, Senior Deputy Corporation Counsel. Uh, we don't have a definitive date right now with the department. As the communication also notes, we wanted to ensure that the level of services that are being provided currently by G4S is maintained as we go through the global pandemic. So we don't want to deal with a situation where the protocols that we've put in place with respect to, um...
 social distancing, wearing a mask, and other precautions that the building has in place right now for those working in the building and entering the building, that there's any disruption or change in the continuity of what is going on. So it will be looked at on a case-by-case basis. As everyone knows, there are predictions for the pandemic situation.
 increasing in the fall towards the winter. But the goal is to go through that and during that time, eventually put out the RFP so that the start of the next fiscal year, we will be looking at a potentially new vendor. Or if G4S were selected again, G4S. But an open and fair competitive process will be issued again, so that the contract can be reviewed.
 Thank you. Councilmember White? I just wanted to ask a question. What is it that gives someone the option to extend as opposed to re-sending it out for bid? Cavette Chamber, Senior Deputy Corporation Counsel. Again, the contract terms that is normally can take, well the contract terms provide for whether or not there is going to be a single term
 or whether or not there's going to be any renewal. So every contract pretty much that the city enters into, the department will decide how long that contract is gonna be for. Normally a government contract, unless there are extenuating circumstances,
 should not exceed a total of five years. That is the guidance that we've provided to the department. So you have a one year and four options to renew or less, depending on what the department chooses.
 So that's where an extension comes into play. After those extensions have all expired, which is what the case was for this current contract, a new RFP would be issued or a new competitive bid.
 Because I know that we have many contracts that we extend and some that are expired that continue on and there's no issue. But this one in particular, because of the language on it, it said that they could not extend it.
 The contract actually said the original contract did provide for one year and four renewals. What has come to the council is in the event that there is some extenuating circumstance where the departments,
 need additional time to issue an RFP, then they would actually come to you and ask for an extension beyond that time, which is what we're doing here because the RFP was issued. There was an issue with the vendor that was selected, so now we need additional time to redo that process. I can't speak on any other contract without more information as to those specific contracts. Thank you.
 But we're going to wrap this up if no one else, but here's the question. So was this contract ever just renewed instead of there being an, we never renewed this contract. You said they had four opportunities for renewal. The contract came for extension for three times before the council, the council did approve each extension at the start of each fiscal year. But could the contract have been renewed is the question.
 That's pretty much the same thing. We're renewing it, extending it. So we're at the limit with this one coming up, right? We were, which is why the RFP was issued. Okay, I think I'm getting a little confused. If we approve this now, we are not over the contract extension agreement or our agreement.
 We are from the original contract. Those last three terms expired, which is why the RFP was issued. So now in order to issue a new RFP and ensure that there's a continuation of services,
 You have this basic emergency approval that's being done to ensure that the services continue while a new RFP is issued. So I think you just used the word that I haven't heard. It's an emergency approval. This is not something that we would normally do. Under the contract, there were no remaining extensions, correct?
 Under their existing, under G4S's existing contract, it was for a year and three renewals. The last renewal expired at the end of the fiscal year. It expired June 30th, 2020. So they were out of contract and no renewal, no extensions available, which is why there was an RFP. Okay.
 And stop me if at any time we need to be in executive session, if I am asking questions, because I just kind of want to know what gives us the authority to extend if the contract only said a year. Is it the emergency that's at hand? Yes. Under the law, you can actually enter into a contract if there's some unforeseen circumstances. Okay.
 All right. Thank you very much for your answer and for your knowledge. Thank you. All right. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Gullenbeck? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes.
 Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number one, Declaration of State of Emergency 7-15-2020. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number two, CARES Act Emergency Services Grant. Motion to approve items two and three. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Second by Council Member Golumbik. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golumbik. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Okay. Item number four, Michigan Sycamore Historic District.
 Motion to send to legislation. Second by President Pro Tempstam. Item number five, permission to enter into a designated developer agreement for various slots in a fruit belt. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember White.
 Item number six, permission to grant utility easements to National Grid. Motion to approve items six and seven. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Feraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes.
 Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number eight, City of Buffalo Street Light Audit. This item is open. It's not marked. Probably receiving problem, unless someone needs it in committee. Finance, please. Motion to send the finance. Second by council member Wyatt.
 item number nine certificate of appointment for a community advocate council member wingo i've spoken with the the the comptroller's office unless any of my colleagues have any questions regarding this community advocate of which of course they sent an email out regarding some of the information uh we can approve this if we i don't believe that this necessarily to go to committee this person is waiting to work now so uh if it doesn't if no one else has any questions
 we can approve this item no one has any questions already motion to approve second by councilman wingler councilmember bowman
 Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 10, change in contract City Hall fire detection and alarm system. Motion to approve items 10. Would you please continue to scroll down?
 All the way up until 20. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Council Member Winkle.
 Next item. Item number 21, permission to accept donation of repair to Rattling at Naval Park. This is a late file. If there are no objections, motion is to approve. Items 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42.
 Second by Council Member Fairletto. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Fairletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Temp Scalin. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 43, Appoint Labor 1. Yes.
 Motion to send the CD items 43 and 44. Majority Leader Correction, Civil Service. Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 47, Drug Asset Forfeiture Wire Transfer. This is a late file. That one we had approved. So 47 is to finance? Yeah, 47 isn't a late file, but it is to finance. Second by Council Member Freeland.
 Item number 47, Buffalo Firefighter Retirement Incentive Program. We are seeing different numbers. We're seeing different numbers now. Item number 48, Buffalo Firefighter Retirement Incentive Program. Motion to approve items 48 and 49. Second by Council Member Phelan.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 50, Brooke Thurber, 9,500. This is a late file.
 items over. Mayor DeLongo and the claims. Mayor DeLongo These are going to claims. Okay. Um, items 50 through 56, the claims committee.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski and just for the public at the end of the meeting the announcement will be when claims committee will be meeting. After that claims committee there will be a special meeting of the Common Council following that to decide on these claims formally. Next item. Item number 57, full store license 281 Grant Street. Motion to approve.
 Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golumbak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 58, Food Store License 955, Chonawanda.
 That item can be approved council member. Motion is to approve. And before we call the roll, because 59 is it, will 60 be approved also? Mobile food truck, you can approve that as well. So when you call the motion, could you call all those together? Motion to approve items 59 and 60. Second by council member.
 BOLMAN. So going for roll call for items number 58 through 60. Councilmember BOLMAN. Yes. Councilmember FARALETO. Yes. Councilmember GALUMBEC. Yes. Councilmember NOEL-KAUSKEY. Yes. Council President PRIDGEN. Yes. Majority Leader REVERA. Yes. President Pro Tem SCANLAN. Yes. Councilmember WINGO. Yes. Councilmember WYATT. Yes.
 Item number 61, tire handler 1699 Main Street. Motion to send the legislation. Council Member Burton, this item is actually gonna be a denial. It's a denial? Yep. This is the one that Council Member Buengo wanted to speak on for the record. Yep, just trying to find my mute button. This item here, unfortunately, when we looked at the scanned document of the application, it was determined that the signature,
 In fact, on the notification page is not my signature. Therefore, I'm denying this application. I will not accuse him of forging my signature, but I am going to say on the record that is not my signature. I do not approve that page to be signed with my name, Ulysses O. Wingo Sr. Therefore, Corporation Counsel, that is going to be a denial for that reason. It's been stated on the record for the denial of 1699 Main Street.
 Next slide. Did I give a second? Second by Council Member Riegel. Second. Next slide. Item 62. We have two items 62. Just so you know, the contract extension for Toshiba has been withdrawn. The correct item for 62 is appoint inclusionary compliance officer. All right. For the record. Motion? Is that an approve? So we can approve items? Civil service. Oh, that one goes to civil service. Are we at 62? Yes, sir.
 That's withdrawn, you say? No. So there are two items that the computer generated, 62. The contract extension of Toshiba is being withdrawn. Okay, got you. So the 62 to civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 63, approval for parking department to enter into lease of new impound location. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombeck.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 64, Liquor License.
 Motion to receive and file items 64 and 65. Second by Council Member Wynne. Item number 66, appoint legislative aid. Motion to adopt items 66 and 67. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 68, reopening schools. Motion to send this to the Education Committee. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 69, crisis services, recommendation and guidance for assisting Buffalo Police Department with mental health issues. Motion to send this to the CD. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. I'm sorry. I'll make that motion. The document that was filed actually asks for this to be sent to the Police Oversight Committee or CD, but I'm...
 I believe that the preference was the police oversight committee. Councilmember, after several discussions with the board members on crisis services, they were content with either committee thinking that police oversight would be more appropriate by theme, but whatever could get attention for the councilmembers sooner. At this time, that would be CD. Understood. Thank you. Motion stands. Motion stands. Second by Councilman White.
 item number 70 draft the carroll's law duty to intervene law motion to send the legislation most sending legislation second by council member wingo and on this this is uh was sent into us this is not a common council document but it was sent into us to review so it will be reviewed through the legislation uh committee uh just so that the public has clarity on what the council is doing with this
 Item number 71, caucus meeting transcription. Is there a receive and file? Receive and file items 71, 72, 73, 74, 75. Second by council member Scanlon. Item number 76, letter for state legislation for Buffalo Police Department residency. Motion to send the legislation.
 On this item, and second by Council Member Fioletto, this is a letter that was sent to me actually after some discussion with Assembly, the Majority Leader Crystal Peoples-Stokes contacted me about the moves that are being made right now in the state to give the city of Buffalo, in particular, the
 the right to establish a law that would allow us to have residency for new police officers coming in. It is very important law that is going through Albany right now. And I asked for a letter that would explain that as she has sent.
 I know that there are a lot of questions on whether that is right, whether it is wrong. I have weighed in continuously on this, did press yesterday of how important I think it is. You know, we had discussions before about the police department representing the people in the city of Buffalo. And I know that some response against this.
 is that you know some people feel it some new officers may feel it's dangerous to live in the city of buffalo if a police officer feels it's dangerous to live in the city of buffalo um but want to receive taxpayer dollars i i do have i do take issue with that i was just asked by a reporter
 you know, about people wanting to live wherever they want to live. And I totally agree with that, that people should be able to live wherever they want to.
 However, I believe if you want to work for, if you want to be in East Aurora and you want to be a police officer, a new police officer, then go to East Aurora. You want to live in Lancaster, then go to Lancaster. But for many reasons, too many to mention here right now, the relationships, the reason I support this 100% is because of building of relationships
 And I think that's what this is about, at least for me, is how do we build relationships with people and the people who provide public safety? And it would not affect people who are already in the police department. But some people do not realize at this point right now as we speak, there is no residency requirement.
 So two classes have gone through the academy who they don't have to live where they're fed from. And so they are able to get their check paid by taxpayer dollars from those of us who are local, and then they get to go to the suburbs.
 The second thing that, and finally for me at this point, that was presented to me was, you know, people are afraid for their families, that some of the new recruits will be afraid for their families. Well, I think that people in the city of Buffalo, especially in high crime neighborhoods have been afraid for their families every day.
 So I don't think, and they're not getting paid to be afraid. They're not getting paid to be afraid. So at the end of the day, those arguments for me just don't wash because if everybody is doing their job and their part,
 then you do your job and then your neighborhood doesn't have the crime for you to be afraid. I just want to be clear that I give support to this letter and resolution will be coming forward in our special session, possibly to support this. Council Member Wingo, Chair of Recognition.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, we have to go back and understand the exact reason why the right to live anywhere in the state is being challenged right now as far as being a municipal police officer. This dates back to the war, which world war I can't exactly remember right now.
 This dates back to the war when we needed people to come into the city to work these jobs because people were being shipped out to do tours of duty in the military service. That is no longer needed right now. And the fact of the matter is people who apply to be a police officer, you have to live in the city of Buffalo in order to apply 90 days. If you're already living here for 90 days, then.
 What does it really matter if you have to stay living in the city after those 90 days? Council members have to live in the city of Buffalo. We have to live in our district. I couldn't live in Delaware if I wanted to. I couldn't live in Ellicott or University if I wanted to. I couldn't live in Fillmore or Lovejoy. I couldn't live in Niagara. I could not live in any other district other than Mass and District if I want to work for the city of Buffalo representing the Mass. I think this is ridiculous.
 Now, the fact of the matter is they have an argument where they have said that they fear for their families' lives. They fear for their own lives. Well, if you built a relationship with the community, you wouldn't have anything to worry about. I've gone on vacation before. I've left my front door wide open. I've gotten phone calls from these same people that they're afraid to serve and protect.
 Mr. Wingo, you left it front door, but don't worry about it, man. We got it for you. You're good. You're good. Because of the relationship that we have with the community. I believe that we need to make sure that the police officers have these relationships with the community so that we can continue to build this community policing. This community policing is the point. That is the purpose. Community policing. That means the community polices itself. Not that we don't need police, but the community polices itself. And that means the police will be a part of, everyone guessed it,
 the community. So I want to just say thank you to the majority leader of the Assembly, Crystal Peoples-Stokes, and as well to State Senator Tim Kennedy for drafting these letters of support, because I believe that it is absolutely ridiculous that if you need to live in the city to apply to work for the city, why then after you start working for the city, you shoot straight out for the suburbs? I'm done.
 Yeah, I agree. And if you look at it and talk about people being in danger, our city court judges who send people to jail, not just arrest, have to live in the city of Buffalo. And so there are other dangerous jobs, as you just said, our address is public. Everybody, we have to make decisions. So hopefully we'll be able, those who would like to support it will be able to support it soon. Council Member Golombak.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I want to go on the record and state that I want to thank Mayor Brown for pushing this through as well. I know that for the past several weeks, especially, he and I have become especially fond phone buddies, talking to each other several times a week at length about different proposals that are in front of
 of the city of Buffalo right now. And one of the things that we talked about was residency requirement. And I agree with much of what my colleagues said about the importance of having people living in the city of Buffalo. I think that that's one of the big problems that we have in the city is that we have too many people that come in
 collect a paycheck and then leave. And I'm not saying that they're not dedicated and that's whether it's school teachers or whether it's police officers or any other employees. But there's a reason that Buffalo is consistently ranked
 what, number three as the poorest cities of our size in the country. And it's because we give a very, very fair wage to many employees and then allow them to go and live in another municipality. In a perfect world, I would never support a residency requirement.
 In a perfect world, people should be able to live wherever they want to, so on and so forth. But the reality of the situation is that we don't live in a perfect world. And if you want to work for the city of Buffalo and make very, very fair wages, I believe that you ought to be a resident. Now, of course, there's some problems there. You know, if you have a husband and a wife, you know, one that's a schoolteacher in Niagara Falls,
 falls and one that's going to be a police officer in Buffalo. I believe both of those would have residency requirements. So I think that there's ways that we can work around that, you know, when you have a situation like that, you know, and so on. But there's going to be unforeseen consequences of this. You know, what I especially appreciate about this is that in the past, we would have had to negotiate with the union.
 in order to get a residency requirement. I know that we've tried in the past. I've sponsored in the past and co-sponsored with my colleagues to push for residency. And we've asked Albany in the past to support residency, and they have not. Because we have not wanted to have to use a bargaining chip, if you will, when we're negotiating with the union for something that is as much a no-brainer as simply
 allowing the city of Buffalo to make it a requirement that those who work for different departments, in this case, it's the police department, that they live in the city of Buffalo. Now, however, this doesn't address something else. And as much as I do want police officers who live in the city of Buffalo, what I think that also needs to be addressed.
 is the people that apply for exams, for civil service exams, whether it's police, whether it's fire, whether it's teachers in the city of Buffalo. And I think that there ought to be some sort of a
 a help that's given, whether it's a boost in one score. I know that at one time when you took the Buffalo teachers exam, part of your score was an interview with a group of people. And I think that, and this is going to be a little bit complicated and maybe some people are going to be upset with it. But I think that one of the problems that we have in Buffalo, and this is coming from somebody, I'm in the same house pretty much that I've lived in my entire life.
 I've lived in the city of Buffalo my entire life, except for brief times in college and teaching in other parts of the state and the country. But I think that going along with residency, people that grew up in the city of Buffalo feel far more comfortable around people who are different. And I say different in quotation marks, because I can pretty much walk into a room and
 anywhere in the city of Buffalo and not feel awkward because I'm different because the people that I've walked into in the rooms have been just people that I know, people that are residents, just people. Um, I think that when you get brought up in a different community, there is much more of a sense of the other than there is if you're brought up in the city of Buffalo. Um, and,
 You know, if I walk down the street and I see five people walking towards me, whether they're black, white, Latino, male, female, whatever, if they're big people that are coming towards me, I'm going to be a little bit nervous. I'm not going to be more nervous because they're one thing rather than the other. But that's because I grew up in Buffalo. That's because I have friends and I have acquaintances that cross pretty much every ideological, racial, ethnic line.
 etc. divide. But I think that that's something that needs to be addressed is, you know, how do people that have never dealt with the diverse community suddenly get thrown into a city like Buffalo where you have economic and ethnic and racial and religious and all sorts of diversity
 And you don't know how to deal with that. That's not necessarily something that can be taught to you. And I think that this is something that needs to be addressed. And once again, I think that maybe one of the ways to do it is by looking at the way the Buffalo Teachers exam either is or was addressed.
 uh... developed years ago where it took into consideration you know the uh... interview process how you dealt with other people it wasn't psychological it wasn't you know checking to see if you were psychologically balanced or not it was checking to see how you could relate with people in different circumstances so well i think this is a great huge step forward and kudos to the mayor
 and everything else, I do think that we need to look at this idea of residency, where one grew up, and how it has an impact on people that work in the city of Buffalo, and how you relate with people who are quote-unquote different from you. Thank you, Mr. President.
 very, very interesting perspective and I appreciate it. Thank you. Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. President. I support this and thank the Majority Leader for her leadership on this. I'm truly hopeful that we'll have more situations like this because we have a contract that's going to come before us with 800 pages
 And when we're talking about changing systemic racism and addressing the many, many issues that we have with law enforcement, with other entities, we have to look at that. And we need the state's buy-in to address many of those issues. I was so happy to hear the governor say a couple of days ago that if there's not substantive change regarding reform, he's going to do some defunding.
 And I appreciate that because that speaks to the urgency of now to address the many myriad of issues that must be addressed. When we talk about residency and we're giving, we have a contract in which officers, depending on their status, are able to drive out to Orchard Park with a city vehicle with city gas on a taxpayer's dime.
 Oh, no. How do we allow that to happen? That doesn't even make any sense. So I'm very proud that she started with this this first step. I wish it was a bigger step, but we'll take every step that we can get because we know we have a lot ahead of us. So I definitely support this legislation and look forward to signing on for the city of Buffalo and for the residents of Buffalo, because anyone who gets a check for the city of Buffalo should live in the city of Buffalo. Thank you.
 Thank you. Anyone else? All right. I'm sorry, did we finish the motion? Did I give you a first and a second? Yes. All right. Item number 77, request to speak at Education Committee. Motion to send to Education Committee. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 78, Alleyway Center requests approval to receive grant funds. Motion to send to CD. Thank you.
 All right. Motion. Just a question on this. We're sending it to CD. Would that hold up their grant funds? Do we need to send it to CD? Is there a reason? Go back to the item, please. Because it's just them receiving a grant. If we send it to CD, they wouldn't be able to receive it until after September. Yeah. I don't know why it's marked CD. I don't have a problem approving it if it's just an approval. Was there anybody who had a reason that they wanted to go to CD? All right.
 motion is now to approve all right motion um i'm sorry uh city clerk did i give you a second on that or am i okay black you're okay yeah second by councilmember columbia and it's going for approval correct yes all right so roll call councilmember bowman yes councilmember farrell yes councilmember golembeck yes councilmember nolkowski yes council president pridgen yes
 Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scalin. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Committees. Civil Service, item number one, notice of appointments, sent provisional and permanent. Motion is to receive and file item number one. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, Carol Horne's statement regarding injury while on duty. Motion is to send this item to ledge.
 Is that accurate? That's correct. Two and three. Motion is to send items two and three to ledge. Second by Councilmember Friuletto. Finance. Item number four, approval to renew contract with Exxon Enterprise. Finance. Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number five approval to renew contract with Deaf Access Services. Motion to receive and file five, six, and seven. Second by Councilmember Skin. Item number eight approval to renew contract with PAL for Buffalo Peacemakers. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto.
 Council member Golombet? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 9, approval to renew contract with Western New York Polygraph Services. Chairman? Motion to receive and file. Thank you, Council member Wingo. Item number 10, approval to renew contract with Washington Computers.
 Commission to approve. Second by Council Member Golombak. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Temp Scanlon? Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Community Development, item number 11, 2020 to 2024 council...
 CONFALIDATED PLAN AND 2020 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN. MOTION IS TO APPROVE ITEMS 11, 12, AND 13. SECOND BY THE MAJORITY WE REVIEW. COUNCILMEMBER BOLLMAN. YEAH. I'M SORRY. COUNCILMEMBER WYATT.
 I'm gonna approve this, but I'm expecting the additional information regarding the breakout of the dollars that are spent by district. I did get something from Brendan regarding 2016, 2017, 2018, but nothing for 2019. So I'm gonna trust that they gonna give me the information and not play us on this. So we asked for this information. I don't know why we wouldn't have 2019, but we got three years ago.
 but I'm going to support this as far as an approval. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Revere, before we take the word. Mr. Chairman, I agree with Council Member Wyatt. We had asked...
 for breakdowns, comparisons, to see whether or not there is proportion that each district is treated proportionately, not only with CDBG, but we asked them any funds that's intertwined, whether it's Bureau, whether it's CDBG, any money that comes in, we need to know the breakdown, how this money is spent proportionate by districts. And that's the only way I could
 at least explain to my constituents, yes, that we're treated fairly when it comes to all funding that comes through the city, through CDBG, through Bureau, whatever funding source that comes in through the city, we need to break it down to know how it impacts our district and how proportionate it is. So we're gonna continue to ask OSP to provide us with this information. Thank you very much. Thank you. Roll call. Council Member Vollman.
 Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Golombak. Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes. Councilmember Wingo. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt. Yes. Item number 14, comments on the draft consolidation plan and annual action plan. Motion is to receive and file. Councilmember Wingo. Yes.
 Item number 15 reported cell 1315 East Sullivan. Motion is to approve items 15 and 16. Second by President Pro Temp. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes.
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Winkle? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Legislation item number 17, 3148 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. You want to do all of them?
 Down to 20. CHRIS MARTINSEN, Even file items 17, 18, 19, and 20. CHRIS MARTINSEN, Second by the Majority Leader. ELIZABETH WARREN, Item number 21, Special Use Permit 172, Rhode Island. CHRIS MARTINSEN, Motion is to approve this item as well as item 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28.
 29, 30, 31, and 32. Second by Council Member Golombek. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 33, supplemental info for special use permit for 6 Highgate. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Resolutions, item number 79, carry straight concerns. Is there someone trying to be recognized? Yes, Council President. Councilmember Stanton?
 Thank you. I was just, I was sitting here thinking about, I guess we could revisit it. Can we revisit item number 11 in, what was it in? Community Development, the Consolidated Plan and Annual Action Plan. Second by Councilmember Wyeth, the item is before. I'm just sitting here thinking, and I could be wrong, and we'll get the information from Brendan, I would assume at some point. But I'm wondering if the reason we didn't get a breakdown of 2019, if that's the current year we're in, spending the money.
 I don't know, but just so it maybe put that on everyone's radar. That could be the case just so maybe that's not what it was withheld from us. Maybe it's just the fact that we're still currently spending. So we don't have the final answer for that yet. I was just sitting here looking at the item and wondering if that was the case. That's all. Okay. Yeah. It very well could be. Yeah. Thank you, sir. Item number 79 in resolutions carry street concerns. Mr. Majority Leader, can you please make a motion to adopt? Yes.
 Motion is to adopt. Motion is to adopt. Second by Councilmember Noah Komsky. Item number 80, PC Western New York Pride flags. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Noah Komsky.
 Item number 81, trailblazing sign in honor of Margaret Rose Brown. Motion to approve. Yes, I just wanted to speak quickly on this for this trailblazing sign for Margaret Rose Brown Hamilton. In 1997, she opened the New Life Residential Center, a Memorial Drive for women that are in recovery.
 And in 1978, she completed a 12-step program to recover from substance abuse herself. So by her being open and honest with her struggles, she's allowed others to do the same and help them along the way. So that is why I have this trailblazing sign and I thank you for the approval. Thank you, sir. And that was seconded by Council Member Nohcoz. Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Galambach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 82, Carol Horn Pension Inquiry. Motion to send to legislation items 82 and 83.
 Second by Council Member Wyatt. This item basically is asking our attorney, our corporation counsel to answer a question that we have heard out in the community. I want clarity on it. And that's basically the community saying the council should restore and make Cary O'Horn a whole.
 And so what I'm asking the law department to do is to tell this council or to give an opinion on whether this council has any power for that to happen. So I wanna be very clear about what this is about. We have heard from the state attorney general who has sent a letter
 that we received just recently to the Comptroller, again, asking the Comptroller. And that wasn't by our request, that was by the AG's request, was now involved after our request to the AG. So the Attorney General has sent, and in her letter, which we are filing today, she does give support to this matter.
 So that is something significant. So I just wanted to make sure it's corporation counsel that the request is clear of what we hope to hear on. I know there's a date on it. Would you need longer or can you make it by that date? We wouldn't have another meeting or would you be, may you have that answer on Tuesday in committee?
 Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon, I believe we will do our best to try and have that answer for you on Tuesday, next Tuesday's meeting. Oh, that would be wonderful. That way, we would be able to hear exactly what this council has the power to do and what they do not. Because that is the request of many in the community, but I'm not sure what the power is of the council. Council Member Scanlon?
 Thank you, Council President. I think you make a very interesting point regarding this, this, everything surrounding this, this former police officer is that we constantly hear things from the community regarding this in this situation. And
 I am completely comfortable requesting Corporation Council provide us with a written opinion on what authority, whether it's this council or the administration may have regarding this issue. However, like you said, we're receiving information from the public, and there are a lot of discrepancies surrounding the actual reason.
 why this officer was terminated and the amount of service time that should be attributed to the officer, whether it was the police department or a independent arbitrator who was the final decision maker on termination. So because of those facts, coupled with the fact that New York State has repealed 50, I'd like the Corporation Council to include within their response to this resolution, if possible, this officer's records and the arbitration ruling that exists,
 So we can provide that to this council so that this council, including myself, is no longer replying upon hearsay from people from the public and other officers. Rather, we have all the facts surrounding the entire situation so that we can make informed decisions. So if possible, within their response, I'd like them to provide us with the disciplinary records and the arbitration ruling surrounding this officer as well.
 Now that would, I would believe would probably take an amendment for this, unless you wanted to file something that would ask for that, because this doesn't ask for the records of the officer. Okay, then I can file something for Tuesday if need be, if that's the case.
 Just again, because I think it would keep it clean. And because I think there would be some who would object to that. So I think to keep it clean, if you filed something for that, then we can, we can consider that in front of this. Okay. I will do so. And I'll be very clear and I'll, I'll come right to you. Councilman Golombek. I have.
 supported to make Ms. Horne whole in some ways, but I think that the information, we need to know, like you just said, Council Member Tann, let's know what our powers are.
 and let the public know so that if the council has the ability, or like you said, or the administration, then at least we can work from a position of knowledge and knowing and then be able to inform the public in this. So I really hope that we are able to get something by Tuesday. Council Member Golomba?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I have asked representatives from the law department to get copies of Officer Horn's file, especially after the mayor had done the press conference several weeks ago when many of these questions were brought up.
 Because, you know, I think that the general populace believes that just because we're council members or mayors or whatever it happens that we are, that we can wave a magic wand, have a vote, and simply make things happen. My understanding has been that, you know, this was a...
 arbitration in Albany. It was a decision that could have been made in Buffalo with the officer, you know, agreeing to a three-day suspension or something like that, I can't remember, in that the officer in question decided to go to Albany and they went in front of arbitration and it was an arbiter in
 Albany that actually recommended determination. I want to know for sure what happened. I want to see the file. And I think that as Mr. Scanlon said, with the 50A having taken place, that should open up all of these files so that we can know exactly what did happen and what did not happen. You know,
 with the file potentially being able to be put in front of us, we can look at everything, see the timeline, and know what exactly happened, you know, why the officer was let go. I think that there's, and I think I know more simply because I've been on the council longer, and I remember when this issue has come up in the past that it's a far more complex issue than it's just black or white, good or bad. And I mean clear cut. It's not a clear cut.
 why everything happened. It's far more complex. And I think that the residents of the city of Buffalo, I think that the council, I think everybody needs to know this. And I think it's very important to know what our, and as you mentioned, what it is that
 we are allowed to do. We can't just simply vote on giving somebody a pension or changing tiers or anything like that. So I think that this is very, very important. You know, I have a call, I think, with Mr. Ball tomorrow that this was going to be a part of. But as I mentioned, because there's litigation, my understanding has been that the entire file may be
 none of the file is currently available. But I would love to have it clocked in in front of the council so that anybody that goes to our website could take a look and see how complex this issue is and that it's not as simple as just, you know, simply giving this person their pension back by a vote of the council or
 or by the mayor. I thought the mayor did a very fine job at his press conference last month when he spent about 10 or 15 minutes explaining, you know, point by point by point as to what happened. And I think that that's what residents need to know, what really happened and not the myth that has developed. Thank you. Before, thank you. And before I come to Council Member Rivera and then Wyatt,
 You know, the 50A is fine. Here's my only thought, and this is just my thought of this discussion, is that regardless of what her disciplinary record is for past events, my concentration is on that day.
 I remember when City Grill happened and Margaret Sullivan was the editor of the Buffalo News and they started digging into the records of the people who were the victims. And so that was in a way to get rid of what happened that day to those people. And so for me it is about that day more than anything.
 I don't know much about her records of the day before or the year before, but if on that day,
 if I truly believe that a person may have been trying to actually stop an officer from hurting someone, to me that's for me, just for me, what the focus is, why I'm hesitant about adding those other pieces to this. But if there's a resolution that comes forward, we'll go from it when that comes. Councilmember Riviere? Thank you. In fairness, if we're going to request
 the records of Mrs. Carol Horn, then it would only be fair that we request the records of the officer that is at the center of all this. And that is the other officer who has since, not only then, that particular day, but going forward, because there has been incidences where he has been
 been brought up on charges and even convicted so i would like if we're going to ask for records then let's ask for all of the records in order to for us to look at the merits of the whole thing i mean just to ask for her record i think it's totally unfair unless we ask for everyone's record associated with that councilmember why thank you and i think i couldn't agree more with my colleague um and it's unfortunate that mr katowski
 got to keep his pension on bad circumstances, on charges. But Ms. Cario Horn doesn't. And I think, to me, it is simple as black and white. And I know my colleagues say, oh, it's not about that, it's about this and that. But, hey, it's about the facts. Mr. Katowski, who was convicted, keeps his pension. And Ms. Cario Horn doesn't.
 No. So it's a simple fact to me, and it's unfortunate that we are at this point, but I stand with Cariel Horne. She intervened and saved a man's life. It's not about her past record.
 It's about what she did on that day. I agree with the council president. This is unfortunate, but I think a right should be corrected. I think the state AG has given her opinion and we should support that opinion. And I hope that we have the authority to make this woman whole because she has struggled for 20 years for doing something. We are champions today. That's the right thing to do. And for us to go back and revisionist history on her record, uh,
 when the person who was accused of the problems was fired and kept their pension is just absurd. Thank you.
 Council Member Scanlon. Yeah, thank you. I have no problem with bringing the other information into it as Council Member Rivera brought up. That's fine. I don't mind that. I think we should have all the facts involved. But my point is that if the Buffalo Common Council is being asked to weigh in or use authority that we have to maybe alter a decision regarding this pension, we do need all those facts. And again, I don't know what the determining factors for the termination of this office or what were.
 So again, if we have all those records, the arbitration ruling and everything that goes into it, I know you council president, you referenced what happened that day, but I don't know if that was the determining factor for termination. That's why I'm asking for all of those records and the arbitration ruling so that we know all of the facts surrounding the termination that we can now look for. Then we can look into the pension time, which should be attributed, et cetera. I'm just simply looking for all of the facts surrounding the situation.
 Um, I'm sorry. Corporation. Yes. This is the incorporation comes with Karen Gordon. I think given some of the new requests and other discussions, um, it, uh, August 4th would probably be a better, uh, timeline for, for me.
 I want to be clear. What is before us are not those questions. Council Member Scanlon said he will file an item. So we're not asking you on Tuesday to do the 50A. You have one item in front of you.
 And that is, does the Common Council of the City of Buffalo have the authority basically, to summarize, have the authority to do anything in this case to make her whole? So I don't wanna lump those together because there has not been a motion by this council to request those records.
 Okay, but I think the resolution asked for August 4th. So if it's okay with the council, as I said earlier, I'll try my best to do it by next week. But if August 4th will still suffice, I would prefer August 4th.
 Okay, I would, I still hope that you're because we will be out. And that's the only reason we'll be out for the entire month of August. And these situations will just keep bubbling up and bubbling up. I think that the people and it is entirely my fault on the writing of the resolution for that date. But as as we are hearing more people ask, I think that
 I think that if we can get just the one item, it's just one question basically answered. And then when Councilmember, President Pro Tem Scanlon sends his resolution and then we vote on that, of whether there is enough support for what he is asking.
 Okay, thank you. Also, it was brought up by one of my colleagues. I can't remember that there is litigation on this. Has the city been served litigation on the Kareel Horn Matter Corporation Council? To the best of my knowledge, the city has received
 letter informing of new counsel that Ms. Horan has retained. And usually that is a suggestion that there might be formal litigation procedures filed. And so although we have not received any at this point, there could be and in the making sometime soon. So currently, no.
 Mm-hmm. I'm sorry. So currently the answer is no, that we don't have any current litigation proceedings with Ms. Horne, but we have been informed or we've been contacted by her attorney. So I just wanted to be clear because I don't want anybody to run and say there's litigation yet. There is no litigation. There's only the information that she has a new attorney. All right. Any other discussion on this? Did I miss somebody? I thought I saw another hand up.
 All right. So that'll be going to committee and hopefully our very capable corporation counsel and the teams of attorneys that are here in the city will be able to get an answer to the what is asked of that I've asked for the resolution and that has been supported, I believe, unanimously from this council. City Clerk, did I get a first and a second on that or did we just go to discussions?
 You're dead. You got a first and a second. It's going to legislation. All right. Thank you. Item number, no problem. Item number 84, appoint marriage officer. What number are we on?
 84. Okay, before we go to 84, I apologize. Item number 83, and as we talk about today, residency, we talk about residency with the police department. What item number 83 asks is for our human resources, basically department to come to explain to us what do they do with employees who are current employees
 who claim residency. And the reason I think this is important is because if we're going to talk about police and we're going to talk about police residency, then we have to ensure that we are following residency from all of us. So at the end of the day, we need to know what is that process? Has that process been triggered? Making sure that we are not just utilizing a phone bill for residency,
 so that we can ensure that we're being fair. If we're talking about police, we gotta make sure for all of our public employees. Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. Several years ago, I filed a resolution that the council approved. I believe we approved it, asking for an allocation of funding to beef up residency inspectors within that department. So it's something that I'd like to revisit with the council as well moving forward. I agree. Thank you, sir. And I see a lot of heads shaking, yes. Absolutely. Yep. Thank you. All right. Next item.
 Item number 84, appoint marriage officer. Is that an adopt? Yes. Yes. Motion to adopt items 84, 85, and 86. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 87, request for information, armed guard services, City Hall. This is a late file. Thank you.
 Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I spoke earlier about this item. And I just want to ask, if we don't, to our Corporation Council, if we don't get information, what is our option? What other things can we do to get this information that I requested? Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. And this is for Item 87? Yes. Okay.
 At this point, I cannot say definitively that I can give you an answer as to what to do. I mean, you've requested the information. This should provide information. You have the subpoena power that a council has to call individuals to the council, you know, to answer questions. Perhaps you might have to take it to the level of doing that. But outside of that, there's nothing at my fingertips now that I can share with you as another recourse.
 Okay. Thank you. Ms. Gordon, I know you can subpoena people. You can subpoena items, or is that within the law? Please repeat the question. So I know we can subpoena people, persons to appear before this body. Can we also subpoena, for instance, information if information didn't come forward?
 Basically, yes. Usually when you subpoena a person, you also have the authority to subpoena documents. So in a subpoena letter that goes out, it would list the name of the individual that is required to answer questions at council. And if there's any specific documents that a council would also like to review and see that the council believes that individual would be in possession of, those documents can also be subpoenaed with the individual.
 Thank you. And one final question. Can I add to the record or is it already a matter of record because we had the video on the incident or the conversation we had with the police department regarding the security guard contract? Well, you may add to the record. I want to add that piece to the record that I'm requesting of information.
 And, go ahead, corporation counsel. So, Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, I'm not 100% sure what you're asking because the record is already the record. It has already been created. It's in the past. So if you're speaking to specifically what you can ask for, then that's different. And I think when you send out, when you actually send out the subpoena notice, if you were to do that, then you can always include...
 anything else in there, but if it's for something entirely new then maybe you want to put out a new resolution. Just to keep everything clean and clear so it's not, you know, muddled. I mean the video is still part of our record. Exactly. Okay, thank you. That's the, yeah. So can we adopt this and send the rest to legislation?
 Motion to adopt the results and remainder to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Boyd. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. The follow-up meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, July 28, 2020 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, is Tuesday, July 28, 2020 at 10 a.m.
 Committee on Legislation Tuesday July 28 2020 at 1 p.m. and Committee on Community Development is Tuesday July 28 2020 at 2 p.m. and Committee on Claims Tuesday July 28 2020 at 3 p.m. Special Committees will be Committee on Education Tuesday July 28 2020 at 11 a.m. Councilmembers, Councilmember Wingo.
 Thank you. Madison District has quite a few events coming up for the community. First and foremost will be this coming Thursday, the 23rd at 60 Headley, the old farmhouse from 1 to 3 p.m. There will be COVID testing for anyone who wants to come out. Please pre-register on the website. You can find that on our district Web page, on our Facebook page. So.
 That will be again this Thursday, the 23rd at 60 Headley, right off of Jefferson, between the hours of 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. Please come between those times. Second, there's going to be a virtual credit workshop.
 This Thursday as well, starting at 6 p.m. on our Mastin District Facebook page, there's going to be a virtual credit workshop. So if you're looking to get your credit back on point, if you're looking to get your credit on track, clean it up and increase your credit score, please go to this training, this session, this workshop on Thursday the 23rd on our Facebook page beginning at 6 p.m.
 Also, this Saturday, the 25th, we will have a digital workshop for seniors only. Seniors is 62 and up.
 Seniors only can pre-register by calling 851-5145. If your grandmother, if your aunt, your uncle, your grandfather, anyone who is a senior over the age of 62 who would like some assistance with setting up their mobile devices with...
 Facebook or Twitter or any type of medium, please, we're going to ask that you meet us at the Delavan Grider Center this Saturday from 9 to 11. Seating is limited as we are practicing social distancing. So the capacity is 25 right now. You must register. Again, that number of
 uh for you to register is eight five one five one four five so that's three things thursday two big events on thursday that's a covet testing uh
 at 60 Headley. And then there's the virtual credit workshop that's gonna be on our Facebook page at 6 p.m. on Thursday. And then on Saturday, again, Delavan Grider Center, 877 East Delavan at 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., seniors only digital workshop for helping you set up your Zoom accounts and your Facebook accounts on your mobile devices so that you can keep up with all of the things that are happening in the community
 today, being that we are living in this COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are also doing a COVID testing this Thursday from 10 a.m. until noon. That's at 1833 Clinton Street. It's St. Casimir's Church parking lot, and you must pre-register at rafafamilymedicine.com backslash
 backslash testing. I'll post everything on my official council member page as well. And then our Schiller Park Senior Center is hosting a food giveaway, a senior food giveaway, Friday, July 31st from 12 to 3. It's for seniors over 60 and over and they'll have fresh fruits
 vegetables and pre-cooked meats, Shiller Park Senior Center, 2057 Genesee Street, and I'll have those details on my Facebook page as well. Thank you, Mr. Fritcher. Before Mark's phone goes back out, there will be a virtual meeting for Fruitbelt residents and stakeholders to
 that is being called by myself and the mayor. It is on Wednesday, July 22nd, 530 to 630. You can go to our Facebook page for the WebEx number to be able to join that meeting. And this is about the roadway improvements, specifically looking at the sinkholes and the study that is about to
 occur and that Fruitbelt residents have waited for for a very, very long time. And that is starting to move forward Wednesday, July 22nd, 5.30 to 6.30 and the information is on our Facebook page.
 Council Member White. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanna let the people know in the University District or throughout the city of Buffalo on Saturday, August 1st, we will have a food giveaway, open market at 3246 Bailey, the corner of Dartmouth. It will be taking place from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. You must call and register 851-5165 to register. It's open to the public. We'll also be giving PPE.
 as well but you must call and register we have a limited supply so if you give us a call a five one five one six five you can register and pick up a box of food with meat and produce fresh vegetables thanks to April Baskins our chairwoman key bank and that's it me thank you alrighty anyone else
 All right. Hearing none. Motion? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Golomba. We stand adjourned. Thank you.