Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. I'm key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. The Stanford Pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag, the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation,
 Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Isaiah 61 verse 4 says, They will rebuild the ancient ruins and restore the places long devastated. They'll renew the ruined cities that have been devastated for generations. I'm going to have a guest voice in a moment as I reflect for a moment on eight days of hope and what it was able to do in Israel.
 Fillmore District Councilmember Nowakowski with a huge smile on his face reminded me of the good work that they've done. Over 1,300 volunteers, 30 plus states, they served 197 families and made Lincoln Park look beautiful again. Porches, roofs, fences, over 1.2 million dollars of work completed. Pamela Pritchett, Mother Pearl Young's daughter, one of the victims,
 murdered on May 14th, was interviewed. I'm going to give her just a couple of thoughts that I think her voice resonates so well with. Evil, she said, was loud on May 14th, but I believe love will always be louder. To many, Ms. Pearl Young's radiated love and faith with every step she took. She was a beacon of hope, a beacon of life. But she goes on to say,
 After her mother's life was taken, she said, when something like that happens, you're rocked. And for a moment, you have distrust for everybody. For weeks, she says in her Channel 4 interview, she feared seeing people at a stoplight. She feared for her two children going to work, feared every time she heard about more threats. After May 14th, she says, I would drive in my car and look to the side, see someone and be afraid.
 What eight days of hope did for me is restored trust, trust in people who are a different color than me. Windows replaced, paint, everything else for the house. But this is what she says is the longest thing that stays with her. I'm going to be honest, in these volunteers, to see them and not to feel fear, that's the biggest blessing.
 Imagine the healing that happened well beyond a home that was worked on because of the love that was radiated across racial differences.
 barriers and walls and everything else that happens in those situations and makes your district and those other places they worked better because they labored among us. From all over the country and from local those volunteers came and made a statement and a difference. Let's pray. Father thank you for your goodness. Thank you for those words from Pamela Pritchett. Thank you as she reflects on her mom
 So many good things come out, her love, her faith, her hope, her love, her love, her love. But Father, thank you that you broke down the walls of pain and hurt that are so strong in so many of us. And Lord, you healed some of those barriers in her life and I'm sure the volunteers' lives at the same time. Lord, we thank you that the work of Eight Days of Hope was done in eight days, but the results will last much, much, much longer.
 and Lord, more council districts to be impacted in the summers ahead. Thank you now for your powerful presence here. We thank you in your precious name. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner, Council Members Memorialists. Seeing none, we remember our men and women who have given their life for our country and other countries since our last meeting together. We pause in these chambers. God bless you for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 All righty. I think we have been joined by, is this all from your office, Mayor Summeryouth? Some of the young people? Mayor Summeryouth workers who are here to have a great time in the council chambers from all over the city and the outer council member Wyatt's office. Yeah, I'm glad for our junior impact team to be here. We've been giving them a great deal of information as far as teaching them about leadership, as well as they've been working in the community, doing a great job.
 And I'm just glad for them to be here and hear about what's going on in our government. And hopefully this day will continue them to be engaged because I said to them, I mean, in order for you to be able to fix your situation, you have to know the process. And so this is part of the process. So I'm glad that they're here to listen today. Good.
 Alrighty, on a motion by Ms. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the meetings of stated meeting held on July 12th, 2022 are approved. Council members, the lake files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the lake files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda at that is before us. Believe there's one item to be taken out of order?
 Mr. Chair, motion to take item 20 from legislation out of order. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 20, special use 2115 Seneca for Tavern Outdoor Dining. Motion to open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. This opens the public hearing for this item. Is there anyone here to speak on this item?
 You'll come down to the mic, state your name for the record. We'd ask that you would be brief under three minutes. Good afternoon. My name is John Otto. I'm the owner of Hook and Ladder Development and I have plans to open up 2115 Seneca Street as a tavern. The building about 30 inches away is our headquarters of Hook and Ladder. We are underway in construction
 And we're wrapping that up now and we're getting ready to open up. So I would love to present that project here. All right. Who's council member? Is there anyone else to be heard on this item? Anyone on Zoom to be heard from this item?
 Hearing none, President Pro Tem Christopher P. Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. Mr. Otto and his partners have been doing a tremendous amount of work on Seneca Street over the course of the past couple years. As he said, their office is right next door to where they're looking to open up this tavern and restaurant. It has long been a restaurant tavern. It just has been out of business.
 It's been closed for more than a year, so they needed to apply for a new special use permit. So that's simply what they're doing. They put a tremendous amount of time, energy and finances into the building. And it's going to be a tremendous addition to Seneca Street. So I would recommend approval. All righty. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Thank you. Good luck. All right. From the top. Item number one, appoint Commissioner of Parking, Raymond Widener.
 motion is to approve motion to approve second by council member Wyatt and just for the record because this is the last meeting we would normally send it to civil service council members could ask him questions on the record I believe he's been around to all of the offices however he will be coming in to civil service in September so to so that you could ask him questions on the record next item did I give you a second
 Yes. Okay. Item number two, Mayor out of town travel 71922. Motion to receive and file items two through four. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number five, American Rescue Plan Communications Agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah Kowski. Item number six, approve LDA for 8284, 8891 Monroe King Solomon Holiness Church Incorporated. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number seven, Lyceum project. Motion to approve item seven through 11. Second by council member Wyatt. Excuse me, Mr. Chair, item 10. No, it's motion is to approve seven through 10. Seven through 11. Second by council member Fierla. Was that up to 10 or through 11? Through 11. Through 11. Item number 12, report of sale seven, Roebling.
 I'll defer to Lovejoy District Councilmember. Approve, please. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 13, report of sale 444 Winslow. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Williams. Item number 14, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service items 14 and 15. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 16, appoint accounting supervisor. Motion to approve item 16 through 38.
 Second by Councilmember Fairluck. Item number 39, report of bids, mill and overlay at South Park Avenue. This is a late file motion. I'm sorry, is to approve items 39 through 46. Second by Councilmember Wengel. Item number 47, appoint fire captain. Motion to send civil service items 47 through 49. Second by Councilmember Bolton. Item number 50.
 a1 Katrina Canada twenty thousand dollars motion to approve items 50 through 62. and my council member actually through 63 63 correction motion stands second stands item number 64 point assistant corporation Council 2. motion to send the civil service item 64 through 66. second by council member no council
 Item number 67, 160 Abbott Tire Handler. Deferred to South District Council Member. I pledge. Motion is sent to ledge. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 68, 441 Hinman New Used Car Dealer. This, I guess we can recommit this. Council Member is not here. Council Member Rivera, Council Member Golombek would like 68 and 69 approved. 60 motion to approve 68 and 69. Second by Council Member Fairlittle.
 Item number 70, property manager's license, power play partners. Motion to approve items 70 and 71. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 72, appoint assistant mail print shop supervisor. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Freelow. Item number 73, appoint commissioner of admin finance policy urban affairs. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Boland.
 Item number 74, appointing Executive Director, TVA. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item number 75, Liquor License Notice, 69 Delaware. I'm sorry, that's item... 75. 75? Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 76...
 Correction naming of Southside, Mungovan Park Track, and Jack Donahue's honor. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 77, appoint lifeguard seasonal. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 78, appoint assistant legislative aide to. Motion to adopt. Item 78 through 85. Second by Council Member Ferriero. Second by Council Member Ferriero.
 Item number 86, a karate opposition to vape shop at 1249 hurdle. Motion to receive and file items 86 and 87. Second by Council Member Ferlo. Item number 88, Wagner petition for stop sign at Roche and Oman. Motion send to CD. Second by Council Member Bull. Item number 89,
 Gonzales special use 385 Rhode Island for non owner occupied short term rental and N2E zone. Motion to send legislation city planning board items 89 through 93. Civil service item number one appoint senior planner. Motion is to approve item number one. Second by majority leader Revere.
 Item number two, appoint supervising accountant. Motion is to receive and file items two through and including five. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Finance amendment to 2020-2021 annual action plan and prior year annual action plans. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number seven, 2022 annual action plan. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 And number eight approval approval for sub recipient agreement to administer our user fee assistance motion to approve second by Council member Wingo item number nine change order a CDBG year 47 motion to approve second by Council member no Kowski is that a put a few of them Councilman 910 and 11.
 Nine, 10, and 11. And 12. And 12. The second stands adding those items. Item number 13, Buffalo Urban Development Corporation Memorandum of Understanding. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fairlove. Item number 14, approval of subrecipient agreement with Northland Workforce Training Center. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fairlove. Community Development. Item number 15, petition for trailblazing signed to honor Crystal Bowling Barton.
 oh somebody call c motion is to receive and file items 15 16 and 17. second by council members for your luck legislation item number 18 food store license 1036 east ferry motion to recommit second by council member lincoln item number 19 special use 10 10 m wood for live entertainment and n2c zone motion to receive and file all right second by uh council members scat
 Item number 21, food store license 490 Connecticut. Motion to approve 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and 6 with conditions in 27 and 28. All right. As stated, second by Majority Leader Revere.
 Item number 29, Columbeck Rivera-Wingo Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 479, No Parking in Bicycle Lanes. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 30.
 special use 209 comstock for non-owner occupied short-term rental and m3r zone motion to deny second by council member why uh council member did you want to state reasons for denial will follow um i did state it but i'll state it again that this particular entity was already operating as if it had a license for airbnb for an extended period of time and i've asked it
 that permits an inspection to investigate. So the motion for denial is because they acted illegally with Airbnb. Thank you, sir. For the record, the denial has been stated. Resolutions, item number 94, a wait fees for Lovejoy Summerfest. Motion to approve items 94 and 95. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 96, ordinance amendment chapter 479, no parking in bike lanes. Motion is to approve.
 Mr. Chairman, Council Member, and this item, I know that if Council Member Kolumbik was here, he would want to speak, because he's spoken on every single one before this. But I want to thank the Law Department for working on this. This makes sure that people do not park in bike lanes. As you know, the City of Buffalo is adding more parking, more
 stripings and more bicycle lanes throughout the city of Buffalo. And we want people to make sure that the bicyclists are safe. So this deals with that. Hopefully in the future, not only we will deal with people parking in bike lanes, but people actually driving on the bike lanes in terms of vehicle and traffic law, in terms of moving violations. So this deals with them making it safer for the bicyclists.
 I want to thank Council Member Wingel, who was added, and Council Member Golombek in the Law Department for working on this amendment. Thank you very much. Thank you. Second by Council Member Wingel. Item number 97, trailblazing sign to honor Kristen Bolin-Burton. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingel. Item number 98, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Items 98 and 99. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. And 100. And 100.
 AIDA number 101 trailblazing resolution for Catherine Kat Massey. Motion to approve items 101 and 102. Second by Council Member Nolikowski. AIDA number 103 naming MLK Park Garden to John E. Brent Garden. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Council Member Wengler. Just for the sake of anyone watching, this is not renaming MLK Park Garden.
 This is renaming a garden within MLK Park after the name on the by Johnny Brent to ensure that there's recognition and the family is actually on their way to celebrate that and commemorate that occasion. But it is not to rename the park at all. It is Martin Luther King Park, but this is a garden within the park. Very good distinction. We'll have people call it.
 Item number 104, a budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 104 through 107. Second by Council Member Wyatt. We want to go back to one item. Correct. Can we go back to 26 out of ledge? Motion to revisit item 26 out of ledge. I just needed to, I know we'll file it, but there were people here that wanted to make sure that the conditions for this, and this is, um,
 19, 21, 23, 25, 29, Cherry, and the next door neighbors who were there. We did commit to read into the record the conditions for disapproval, no windows to be installed on the west side wall of 266 Genesee Street. Install final finish over the exposed speed tile as per building code on the southwest corner of Michigan Avenue in Genesee.
 and to replace the existing rooftop air conditioners, which is within 30 feet of their yard. And they quote here the addendum page two, four dash four, which states applicant will not cause any disturbances surrounding properties, whether by sound or older vibration or otherwise.
 And the applicant has agreed to those conditions. So I just wanted to make sure because we did have a constituent who was here, but those are written into the record. So there's no change on the motion. Was there another item? Mr. Chairman, I just want to make sure we got the right motion on item 74. Item 74. What was parking? Appoint Executive Director TBA. You got approval, right? Yes. Okay.
 Receiving file should be approved. Should be approved. That's what I thought. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Anything else? This is our last meeting unless there is a,
 dire emergency. This is our last meeting and this council will go into recess. And so we want everybody to have a great August and we'll see you in September. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by council member Volk.