majority we all said already countdown five four three two one roll call council member bowman present council member farrell here council member golombic here council member nolkowski council president prigent majority leader rivera president president president council
 for the pledge of the United States of America. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. I never want to make the time we gather about
 me or us, but in this case, a lot changed since the last time we were together for us. A week ago today, Deb and I were on the back porch drinking coffee, and our life changed in a heartbeat when a speeding car crashed into our house, just missing us, where we sat in shock on the back deck. So we're glad to be here today. The cleanup repairs are just getting started. There's a lot of that.
 But the trauma Deb and I experienced a week ago is not going away as quickly as the brush and all the damage to the house will. Two friends texted me, and I know that many times we get wisdom from those who reach out to us when we're in a crisis. Two different friends texted Deb and me and they said,
 The trauma that you're experiencing can make you more powerful, prayerful, and compassionate for others experiencing life-altering trauma. Let me just say it again. The trauma we experienced can make us more compassionate for others going through trauma themselves. 2 Corinthians 1, 3, and 4, God, our merciful Father, the source of all comfort, comforts us in all our troubles so we can give it away and comfort others.
 When they're troubled, we'll be able to give them the same comfort God has given us. Today, as I pray, I know that you as council members, you as leaders in this community have experienced different times, different ways, different depths, trauma. Each one of the nine of you who lead.
 I'm praying today that that trauma you've experienced is going to make you like it will make Deb and me more compassionate and understanding for those in our districts that we serve who continue to live out traumatic healing in their lives. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Lord, last week when everything changed.
 that morning and the car aiming directly at us that moved and just missed us. Lord, I thank you that we were spared, but you know all that was loosed by that experience, what our eyes saw, what our emotions felt.
 And Father, Deb and I do minister to a lot of folks that have experienced trauma. I pray that that verse, those verses from 2 Corinthians 1, that what you've given to us will give freely to others. Lord, this city has endured more trauma, more trauma than many cities. And these nine council districts, all of them have had traumatic events. I pray for each council member, the way that you have spoken, worked at
 that healed them from trauma will make them more compassionate, more helpful, more understanding for those that are going through it that they serve. Thank you for your powerful presence now in this chambers at this time, this session. We pray in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you and we are glad that you are safe. Council members, any memorials. Council member Joseph Golombek Jr.,
 thank you mr president uh riverside lost uh three good good people the past week or so um ken koshoek was a long time riverside resident uh he's gonna be uh
 very, very sorely missed by his Condon Street family and friends. Charlotte Nosera, mother of my friend Mark, she passed away after a somewhat lengthy illness. Her funeral mass was yesterday at Assumption. And last but certainly not least, my friend Tom, but went by Rick Reese. Rick was...
 Sort of like that guy that was on, I think it was the Heineken commercials, the most interesting man. I was at several events with Rick and one of them, he started talking, not fluently, but well in about five or six different languages. There were some people there that spoke Serbo-Croatian, Chinese, I believe. Yeah.
 Polish and several other languages. And he was able to carry on a conversation with them. And everybody was amazed because he was just ripped from down the street and ended up that he had been a member of military intelligence in the 1970s. He was born in Georgia, came to Buffalo. He's going to be very, very sadly missed by his family and friends and
 He was just a font of knowledge. And he's been sick for quite some time, and I missed our conversations on Facebook. So I want to honor all of these people today. Saying none other, we always remember those who have given their life for our country and others for freedoms across this world. We pause in these chambers for those names for a moment of silence. Thank you very much.
 We have special presentation by Council Member Wyatt, followed by Council Member Nowakowski. I urge for approval of the Mississauga Cafe Ordinance. I think it was filed regularly, but there's an intermediate passage. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask Mr. Carl Thomas to come down.
 I know it's a little late, Mr. Thomas, because you've retired from Roswell. And I just want to read something about this incredible man and what he's done, not just for Roswell, but what he does in this community. Whereas Carl Thomas is native of Buffalo, New York, grew up in a loving family surrounded by support and guidance of his parents who served as role models instilled in him the values of hard work, love, and perseverance. Whereas from a young age, Carl had a dream to make a difference and rise to prominence.
 whereas Carl has achieved remarkable success through the hard work and dedication in his career at Roswell Comprehensive Cancer Center ascending the corporate ladder and leaving an incredible mark on an organization. Carl Thomas worked up the leadership ladder at Roswell as chief organizational and community liaison for his unwavering commitment and sound judgment
 and dedication to upholding the highest standards in protecting the organization and its employees shine. Now, therefore, the Buffalo Common Council wholeheartedly thanks Carl Thomas for his exceptional career at Roswell Park, reorganizing his unwavering dedication, remarkable leadership, positive impact on the community as we extend our sincere appreciation and best wishes for fulfilling a retirement, continued contributions to the betterment of our society. Thank you so much, Carl. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
 You know, you got to say some words, Carl. First of all, I'd like to take a moment to thank my councilman, Rasheed Wyatt. I thank God for having the opportunity to work in the university district with you, hand in glove. You're doing an outstanding job. Also, I'd like to thank all the councilmen that's here today, Scanlon, Bonan.
 Farrell Adam Rivera, Ulysses, and also Norikowski. Roswell Park have been a 46-year beacon in my life. I thank God for my opportunity at Roswell Park. It provided me two fronts, an opportunity to keep the campus safe,
 In the last six years, he gave me the opportunity to work in the community. I must say, the last six years of my career has been the best part of my career. Had an opportunity to join Mr. Petrello in facilities, where we went out in the community and we provided a lot of good service to people that truly need it. So I thank God for that opportunity. And I would be remiss if I didn't thank my wife for standing by my side.
 And of course, the driving force of my life was my dad. He laid a great foundation for me to follow. And he passed on many years ago. And I'm not sure if I'll ever meet his mark. I'm going to continue to try to do that. Rashid, thank you for everything you're doing in the university district. Council President, thank you as well. Thank everybody that was part of this today.
 They're going to get a picture, and while they're getting a picture, he not only took care of Roswell, he takes care of the –
 area around Roswell when he would ride past my house if my gate was open. This is the truth. He would call and say, hey, your gate is open. One day I said, nobody's going to mess with my gate. After he retired, not only did somebody come in the gate, they stole stuff out of my garage and put it into my tote and stole my garbage tote too. We miss you, please. Right.
 Thank God for you. Thank you and congratulations. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to bring down three folks from Community Services for Everybody, Mindy, Kelly, and Amanda.
 So this month is Disability Awareness and Pride Month for the 33rd inception of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. And so I wanted to bring in somebody in the community that does a lot of work with this community and helps build housing, has programs, but also they're a big integral part in my district in Broadway Fillmore. And they've been able to save a Lyceum, which is a historical structure that's adjacent to St. John Canty's Church.
 um from really i know when i toured i think i didn't have an inspector there um so they're now really doing a wonderful adaptive reuse and we'll be providing a lot of housing and uh next wednesday at noon will be the first time that we will be raising the disability pride flag in our in our square and also there'll be programming at canal side for disability pride festival which i really encourage well actually i'm telling all my council members that are here to come but i know
 as our community grows, community services for everybody will be an integral part to help people with disabilities, not just be taken care of, but really live meaningful lives and achieve their hopes and dreams like everybody else. So I'd like to give the floor to whoever would like to speak.
 Thank you so much, Councilman Nowakowski and the entire Council. Community Services for Everyone has been in the community for 34 years. The majority of services we provide are in the City of Buffalo. We support many people with developmental disabilities, but we also support people without disabilities in the areas of employment, affordable housing, domestic violence,
 We regularly are in a neighborhood and have someone call and say, hey, we hear you help people. We have a community sign and no one ever takes care of it. Can you do that? We say, sure. So we just love being in the city of Buffalo. We love being in this community and we're here to just help anyone in need any way we can. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you, council members.
 The motion by Mr. Rear, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on July 11, 2023 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you?
 Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. That is before it's not taken away. You're right to pause the meeting. If you need to review something, there were several items that came down. So from the administration. So if you need to pause, just let us know. Are we going from the top? From the top.
 Item number one, bus patrol school bus armed camera services contract. Motion to send to legislation item one and two. Second by Council Member Golomba. Mr. Chair. Council Member Rivera. And the, we just received the...
 school bus armed camera service contract. There are 30 something pages that we haven't had a chance or opportunity to go through. And we understand that school year begins in September. However, we haven't had the chance to review the 35 pages or so. So we're gonna send both items to legislation. Thank you, sir.
 Item number three, amend transfer of 24 properties to Benlick. Motion to approve items three and four. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number five, DDA for 98, 104, 108, 120, Glenwood, 1760 Emerson, and 21.5, a future portion of 58 Emerson. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wenger. Item number six, designated developer agreement 101, Hurdle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wenger.
 I don't know. I'm sorry, Council Member Glumbach. Thank you. Just very briefly, Mr. President, this is the public school 51 Black Rock Academy on Hurdle near East Street in the historic Black Rock section of the North District.
 I believe this is the last public school in my district that we have finally found a developer for. For those of you that have had a school in your district, you know how difficult it is to try to find someone that can actually do the work and has the funding. It was a overflow school for the Buffalo Public Schools during the rebuilding process, but it's been vacant for at least the past 10 years. And up until COVID, I had probably given close to a dozen
 tours of the facility to different developers from different areas buffalo from outside the city of buffalo um this was uh recommended over i believe an rfp process in which douglas jamal and his company has the funding to actually pay uh
 the value of the property and has the money to be able to redevelop the property. Now, there are some hoops that have to be jumped through. There's New York State tax credits and some other things, but these will be market rate apartments.
 We have other developers that are going in the neighborhood that are doing low income. You know, the community thought that a mixture of low income and market rate would be a very, very good thing. There's no timeframe on this as of yet, but once there is, they will be coming to the Believe in Black Rock Black Club to be able to share information with the immediate and the bigger community. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And can we change the second to Council Member Golombet? Sure.
 because I didn't look at the address. Thanks. Next item. Item number seven, lease agreement between the city of Buffalo and Groundwork Buffalo for the use of 852 East Sullivan. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Ringo. Item number eight, permission to upset grant...
 award from New York State Department of State. Motion to approve items 8 and 9. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 10, report a sale for a portion of 654 East Ferry. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 11, Seeker Nagduk for 1016 East Sullivan. Motion to receive and file items 11 and 12. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 13, appoint senior planner. Motion to send the civil service items 13 and 12.
 13 through 15. Second by President Pro Temp scandal. Item number 16, request approval for adjusted base proportion. Motion to approve items 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Furlow. Item number 18, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 19, amended change order for engine 25. Motion to approve items 19 through 47. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 48, full store license, 1047 Genesee Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Glumberg. Item number 49, full store license, 396 Pearl Street. Is that, excuse me, um...
 Well, it is 49. Pardon me. Motion is to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Glumbert. Item number 50, Lodge and House License 531 Franklin. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, whose conditions will be sent to the clerk. Item number 54, Lodge and House License 532 Main. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 52, tobacco hookah and vape for 42 Allen Street. Motion to send the legislation items 52 through 57. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 58, new used car dealership of 427 Hurdle Avenue. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet.
 Item number 59, new used car dealer for 273 Niagara Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilman Arnault, Councilman. Item number 60, restaurant dance license for 532 Main Street. Motion to approve item 60 and 61. Second by Councilman Freelo. Item number 62, sidewalk cafe license for 244 aka 242 Allen Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilman Bowman. Item number 63, sidewalk cafe license 1469 Niagara Street. Motion to approve.
 second by council member glombeck item number 64 sidewalk cafe license 1456 hurdle motion to send the legislation by councilman fairlady item number 65 mobile food truck for viola submarines motion to approve second by councilman window item number 66 auction and scrap of vehicles motion to approve item 66
 through 68. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 69, permission to enter into agreement with NDC to administer small business program with ARPA funds, and this is the amended version. Mr. Chairman, these are substitutes for items that are in finance. The motion now is to approve item 69. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Councilmember White, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
 I'm working with my colleagues on this because I'm very frustrated by this process. I'm very happy that we got more money for small businesses. We should have done that. This shouldn't have been an issue about one business. This should have happened automatically. Council President, you saw what Orange County did. They had a breakout of how the money was being spent and spoke to
 Really, how it impacted that community. We even talked about gig workers that we got a piece of that ARP. Well, and what we're doing, gig workers aren't getting anything, but the city is getting hold of the lion's share. NDC is getting a large portion. And
 Again, you always talk about the devil in the details. We thought we were getting 3.5. We found out that there was other costs associated with that. So it wouldn't have been 3.5 had we not looked and got more details. We were supposed to get information last night. We just got it today. We keep being played over and over again. And unfortunately, this is government.
 we have to do what we have to do to make sure that we deliver and i'm proud and i think i want to thank councilmember bowman our majority leader in you for your efforts because at the end of the day
 Some more businesses are going to get money which wouldn't have got it before. So I'm very, very proud about that. But another 800,000 is going for other costs which could have went for businesses. And so this whole process of ARP has been extremely frustrating. And again, I think my colleagues who have been on the forefront of pushing every single meeting.
 Where are we with the ARP? We've been pushing for two and a half years. It should not have come to this. And you can go back on the record and see that this council, because we get blamed for a lot of stuff, even as far as the raising in taxes, it was put on a bill or user fee, the council approved it. Well, the council didn't recommend it.
 This was brought to us. And so it's just shameful that we can't work together on the behalf of the residents of the city, the third poor city of our size. There should be much more for them. They should not just be getting an increase in taxes and user fee and sewer bills and getting get nothing to ARP. I had a whole list of things that were supposed to happen in my district for the residents, curbs and those things, and they may not happen.
 They may not happen to the extent that we had an opportunity to really make some headway. Today I was talking to one of the contractors who was in Councilmember Bowman's district, and we talked about just some of the infrastructure issues as it relates to our city. And we're not even addressing those things, the plumbing, the sewer, those things, not to the level that we could have had we managed this money well. The lion's share of this money is going to the city.
 and so the taxpayers have to pay for the city's mismanagement and we can do all we can for as council members we push back in those things but unfortunately we're not the mayor and so again i'm going to renew my statement that we need a city manager we have finite resources and we can't afford to waste a single dollar especially when residents are looked at for the next several years you may have to increase taxes
 Is it fair that we had an opportunity of 331 million and we squander it? I saw all the emails from folks that were upset that they were told they were getting a certain amount of money, and now I'm not going to get it. It's unfair. It's not how we should be operating government. That's why there's such a distrust in politicians, because it seems as though we just give them lip service.
 Well, this council didn't give them lip service. We fought for them. We tried to make sure that every nickel that we could squeeze out of this that they got. Unfortunately, they're not getting what I would have wanted them to get. But at the end of the day, I'm very happy that you and the majority leader and Mr. Bowman and our colleagues have supported this additional money for small business because it's greatly needed. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Rivera. Yeah, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We had questions.
 businesses throughout our respective districts contact us as we've gone through this ARP process in particular since the Bray Miller allocation of funds they became aware and they began to contact us and they're on the ropes just like Bray Miller
 They're struggling to make payroll, and we listen clearly to our constituents in our business districts, and we worked along with this common council, this body and the administration to allocate funds for
 business assistance. And I just want to make clear the money that we allocated is not coming from any other organization that's out there that was slated to get money. This money is coming from a line that does not take away from any of the other organizations and not-for-profits that are doing great work. And I just want to make that clear because it was mentioned that we took money
 from perhaps one of those categories and gave it to the business community. That is not true. It's incorrect. It's misrepresentation of the fact this money is coming from a different line that does not negatively impact. Yes, there were reduction in lines and nobody wants to see those reductions in line. As a matter of fact,
 August of 81, the administration sent down a plan for spending down the ARP money.
 Over the next couple of years, we've had to deal with a number of issues, including 23-24 budget, which had a $30 million budget hole that we needed to cover in order to have a balanced budget. And we did use some of that money for those kinds of things. And that's the unfortunate reality of government. Priorities change, situations change, etc.
 and we found ourselves having to make tough decisions. Do we cut services? Do we cut personnel? Where do we cut? And we found ourselves in that situation. We had to make tough decisions. I would have liked to have gotten this money out
 a lot earlier. And if we had gotten the money out a lot earlier, perhaps people would be getting funded at a different level. But unfortunately, the amendments didn't get to this common council. Although we asked for it repeatedly, this council and finance committee were basically pleading, send us these amendments. These groups are calling our offices. These funds are vital to them.
 And it's unfortunate that the cuts that are made and nobody wants to see those organizations cut.
 The recommendation from the administration was that we need to have a balanced budget, that we have to provide services, that if we don't do this, we're going to cut services and we're going to cut bodies and we're going to cut personnel. So that's the reality of governing. It's not easy. But, you know, I want to make sure this money gets out to where it was intended to get. The longer we keep it here in our...
 within our purview, I think the more chance there is to get further reductions. That's why we want this money out the door like today. That's why we're voting on this today, because every quarter that goes by, more money goes to revenue replacement and less money to the organizations. That's why we have to get this out of City Hall and to where it was intended to. And so I know that people are frustrated and they're angry and they're calling us
 And I certainly understand and sympathize with them. I would have liked to have gotten the money out a lot sooner. And I'm sure every council member that's here would want to see the money in their districts. But it's unfortunate it wasn't. And we're here today to approve this item today. Thank you.
 And I just want to make it clear that this Common Council wanted to get the money out. And I want to thank Council Member Bowman and our staff, Pedro, who over the last two years were meeting with the administration to try to move this along, going through the application process, going through the vetting process, the hard work that everybody did.
 So I want to thank the staff for all the work they did, especially Council Member Bowman and yourself. I want to thank you. I honestly believe if you didn't make a fuss about Bray Miller, perhaps money for these business districts wouldn't be in the budget today.
 And as a result of that, each council member, and I'm not saying council members, because I don't want it to make it sound like the council member have discretion, it's discretionary money, it's going into our business districts. It's not going to us.
 And I just want to affirm that, or at least clear up some of the misunderstanding that's out there. We wanted this money out a lot sooner than what it is. So thank you, especially with the Bray Miller. Because of that, we were able to allocate approximately $388,000 per district to help our business districts. Thank you so much. Thank you. Very accurate. Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question that may cause a little bit of a problem, but where is the National Development Council that has been selected to administer this grant? Where are their offices? Do we have that information? It was discussed in the committee that wasn't asked, so I don't know. Do you know? No.
 New York City. My understanding is, is that the RFA that went out required it to be a Buffalo-based organization. If that is the case, then I don't believe that we can vote for this. And I did get some information from staff. I'm like pretty sure that I'm correct on this. Could we maybe hold this in abeyance and have it checked? Um,
 So if that's your desire, I have no problem with that. Then we hold this in abeyance, second by Council Member Wyatt. I'm going to ask staff to immediately get the answer to that. And I don't want verbal. We need it in writing of where they are and then what did that RF, was it an RFQ, Council Member Golombet? Yes, sir. Was that an RFQ or RFP?
 RFA. RFA. What exactly the RFA said will hold this item in the ban. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else on this item? Council Member Winkle. Mr. Chair, I was sitting in that committee meeting. From my understanding, maybe I am misunderstanding. If I am misunderstanding, I will admit that I misunderstood what was said. But what I thought was the case with this organization,
 was to not be a biased organization, but would work in collaboration with city-based organizations, which were named in that committee. So if I am understanding correctly, the information that we'll receive should sound something like they're working with these organizations who have relationships with the communities in the city of Buffalo.
 and then they can make those non-biased decisions. But I believe if I remember correctly, if my memory serves me right, and if I understood correctly, that's what I heard. And so we'll get the answer. We'll move on with the meeting. I'll make my comments now. I want to thank Council Member Revere and Bowman and the community, because community came out, and most of what we heard from the community in general,
 We're not against helping a business. We just want to make sure our businesses are being helped also. Government helps business all the time. I sit on ECIDA. I sit on other boards in which there are pilot agreements. This council does pilot agreements. So there's help every month.
 However, what we heard loud and clear from this community when they came out, small businesses from everywhere from Ferry to Grant Street, people came out and said, hey, what about us? And in the beginning of this process.
 the some of the first offers were were equal so if you give bray miller 500 we'll we'll make sure there's 500 for community well i think we've learned enough over these years the difference between equal and equity and the fact that 500 000 over nine districts we're gonna do anything and
 And I'm talking about dividing it over nine districts. We worked hard with, and I'll say Councilmember, our Majority Leader and Councilmember Bowman worked very hard going back and forth. And then yesterday when we learned that part of the $3 million was going to have $400,000 in administrative costs, we put the brakes on again and said no. No.
 Then when we, and I believe Council Member Wingo, you are right. Oh, I didn't hear it in the committee. But yesterday when we were informed, they're going to partner with this organization, this organization, this organization. And for me, I have paused and I'm okay with this research right now, because if they are going to partner with organizations here, why didn't we just use an organization here and cut
 Now what is going to be hundreds of thousands of dollars for administrative costs? And that was my biggest pause. My biggest pause was, first of all, giving any one company a half a million dollars with saying, and we can't find any other smaller companies in the city of Buffalo who can qualify.
 I believe those will be found. And in a later resolution, we talk about gig workers because we got to get further down than just the brick and mortar businesses. There were people who make their money off of Uber. There are people and we don't look at them. We just we most of the time are just considered as part time workers. But there are people that this is their livelihood. So at the end of the day, I'm not I'm not jumping around. This is not a victory lap. Trust me.
 to be able to say, oh, well, we got 3 million and 2.5 million, I believe, in loans for these businesses that will be available. It's not a victory lap. I think everybody has stung a little bit. Councilman Revere said it and that this council, I want to be clear, did not make any promises to any, at least not that I know of. As a matter of fact, I was pretty upfront. I was public
 of saying the announcements that are going forward, the press conferences that are going forward, the council was not involved in those conversations. At least, council president was in leadership. I don't know of anybody personally in leadership who was involved in those conversations. When I got the calls from some of the folks who were promised money, my answer was this, you got to call where you were promised the money from, because we don't even have an amendment. We've been waiting on this for a couple of years.
 But at the end of the day, how it's going to be played out often, unfortunately, is the council decided. No, the council got what we got. If we wait any longer, we go into resales in August. If we wait any longer, it'll be another year. And then if we wait any longer, the revenue gap of the city will be more and more of that money will go to the city.
 We can't, I don't want to wait any longer. We want to get the money out to the people, even if it's a reduced amount, unfortunately, but I want to be clear. This council did not sit here and start slashing and burning. We got a document that comes from downstairs to us and these were theirs. This is what they said. Can we change it? Well, if we change it and we take it out of group A, then group B says, why did you change it? So I expect...
 that those who sent us this document have notified those organizations of the cuts and why they're cut because we approve or disapprove the document. But at this point, if we don't do it, it could be 20, literally 2024 before, or before any dime gets out to these organizations. And I don't think we can wait that long. I just don't. They're suffering. The businesses are suffering.
 Timing might not be the best, but at the end of the day, we're getting more money out to these small businesses. And hopefully later, if you approve the gig workers part to some of these smaller folks who might not be in brick and mortar, but they make their life. Their life is made on these objects. Is that the item we're waiting for before we move to the next item?
 All right, gentlemen, before you, what's being handed out right now, and you got a corporation council, did we get one of the corporation council person? Oh, corporation council has to get it. She's got to be able to read it. So, gentlemen, in front of you is the, and I haven't even looked at it, of what it is. And Council Member Golombek, you asked the question. So, have you looked at it? I have not yet, no. I need you to look at it. Sure. Sure.
 Under the eligibility requirements, it says applicant must be a qualified nonprofit organization registered 501c3 under the IRS tax code located within the city of Buffalo. That's a question that I have. Does that mean the NDC qualifies for some reason or not? I mean, you know, we'll have Corporation Council apply.
 Um, our assistant corporation council, H. and King. So we can look further into this and provide a memorandum by the end of the week. I don't think this council is going to vote without. I would make a suggestion if you want to call the corporation council. So it has to be. We have to have an answer at this. This is our last meeting. We need an answer at this meeting. All right, so.
 Council members, let me, Council Member Glumbeck, are you okay with that? Yes. We'll continue with the agenda, but we need an answer today. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I guess to follow up on Council Member Glumbeck's point, my question to Corporation Council is, this is under the eligibility requirements and it states, it does state that an applicant must be a qualified nonprofit organization under the IRS tax code located within the city of Buffalo. My question would be,
 Is that who the money is ultimately going to the organizations who are receiving the funding or the third party that's facilitating? So that's what I think we need clarification on. I believe it's intended for the ultimate recipient, not the third party payment facilitator. But let me just double check something really quickly. Because the next line and corporate council, if you want to step out, if you want to call, we're fine. I want you to take one accurate.
 because the next line says services must be for the benefit of minority businesses located in the city of buffalo and serving primarily city of buffalo and goes on so you're right is this about the which applicant is it referring to that's that's important the the end of the end applicant who's going to ultimately receive the funding or the third party facilitator i think that's what we have to differentiate absolutely okay so we'll we'll give corporation council council member no council
 Thank you, Mr. President. I just, sorry for going after you. I just wanted to make sure that we also have another
 I lend my voice to the other side of the argument of what's before us in the matter of revenue replacement. And the fact of the matter is, is almost half of the money that we have gotten from the federal government will be used to close a budget gap that we've quite frankly had due to 16 years of not raising revenue. I know that it's easy to say that it is to criticize, but that's a long time to not build a tax base and revenue replacement is fundamental.
 funds are funds that actually go to pay the city's bills. So if we don't pay the city's bills, we're going to have to either borrow money like we did in 2020, which we use like a revenue anticipation note that we also have to pay interest on, which costs the taxpayers more money. And if our credit rating fails, it's going to be more expensive to borrow. These are serious budget gaps. I've been telling anyone that will listen that we've been having 30, 40,
 We're now going to use $50 million over the course of two budget cycles to fill the budget holes. What happens when this monopoly money runs out? This council is going to and the administration is going to have to make hard decisions. And I know I've been getting feisty about this lately, especially when it came to budget time last time, when we're cutting $3 million in contractual costs. Those aren't real costs, Mr. President. We have to pay those at the end. So instead of placating the public and placating this common council,
 We have to come up with an actual plan of how we're going to fill in these budget revenues because 2025 is going to come and it's going to hit us in the face really hard. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Council Member Winkle. Mr. Chair, I'm looking at this document from the Executive Department. And we sat in the meeting, the committee meeting last week, and it clearly states here, and I'm just looking at the document that was provided to us that
 If my memory serves me, Lisa Hicks sat here and basically stated what's on this document in that NDC was identified as the best organization for providing financial assistance to small businesses throughout Buffalo as part of a request for applications process. NDC is being recommended for the following reasons. Number one, a commitment from NDC of $2 million. They're contributing $2 million and I believe they emphasized that at the meeting.
 This organization is going to contribute an additional $2 million to this fund for small business loans that will complement, and Ms. Hicks is here, the city's commitment of $4.3 million that combined creates a total of $6.3 million in small business programs. They have extensive experience with municipal government grants and loan programs throughout the country,
 including the administration of programs utilizing ARP funds. Number 3, they have decades of experience administering grant and loan programs in the City of Buffalo. And this is what I had referenced earlier, Mr. Chair. Point number 4 is their partnership with the Buffalo Urban League and the Beverly Gray Business Exchange
 for the provision of technical assistance to small businesses. So Mr. Chair, there are other reasons why NDC was selected, but there seems to be an apparent conflict in that the applicant must be a business in the city of Buffalo. Don't know how we reconcile that today, but again too, I think my colleague articulated this quite clearly.
 we need to move we need to stop kicking the can down the road and make a decision because
 Because that's what we do. We make tough decisions. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And I want to be clear because, and I know you didn't suggest it, but this council hasn't kicked the can down the road. We just got something in the last couple of days. And now we are acting on it. We've been begging for two years. So now we're just getting some, just got something today. And it's like, now we got to do it because we got to do it because we got to do it. Well, no, we don't.
 And at the end of the day, we got to make sure that if there's a conflict in what the, and Ms. Hicks, I just want you to understand what the question was of Council Member Golombet. On page two of the project funding announcement, it says eligibility requirements. If we can start there, who is that a requirement for?
 So the application came in from NDC, the Buffalo Urban League and the Exchange at Beverly Gray. That's always been stated as a partnership between those three organizations. NDC has a specific level of sophistication in terms of their technology and accepting applications.
 But the Exchange at Beverly Gray and the Buffalo Urban League have the relationships with small businesses, their boots on the ground. This was originally intended to be a program that was specifically for minority small businesses, which is why the two organizations that were identified as a partnership were organizations that focus on minority businesses and it has since changed to a citywide small business program.
 We still feel that NDC is the most capable organization to run a citywide program. They have, again, sophisticated technology for intake. And then we do have a number of other organizations who will also be participating on top of the Exchange of Beverly Gray and the Urban League to make sure that citywide there's technical assistance for businesses to apply and qualify for the funding. And Councilman Glombeck can speak for himself, but I think the question is, it's very narrow.
 was the request that went out for whoever was to distribute the money.
 Did it say in that request that it had to be a city of Buffalo company? Yeah. Our council member Rivera, I can see that he's folding a copy of the request for applications, but the way that this application came in, it came in as a partnership between three organizations, two of which are located in the city of Buffalo. Both of the organizations are actually requesting more administrative compensation than NDC. So again,
 If you look at it from a compensation perspective, NDC is not the lead. It's the other two organizations. They just submitted.
 all of the information. So I'll tell you, this is the first I've heard that. And if you look back at caucus yesterday, what I was told was in DC would be receiving this and that they would work with the urban league. And I guess maybe now you're telling us it's all equal. So who is, it's so confusing. Who is receiving the check? Let's do it like that.
 Who is the person that this administration is not going to deal with three different organizations equally. There's got to be a lead organization that applied for the funds and said, I believe we're leading. And I got you. And we're going to work with these folks. Who is that lead organization? And I'll let Councilmember Golombek, because he has the question.
 Yeah, Ndc. Submitted the application in partnership with the other 2 organizations. If it's a question of who's the lead, though we haven't had ample opportunity to fully flesh out and design the program. So I think, in fairness to you know the small businesses that are waiting for the funding, we should have that opportunity to flush out the program, and we can decide who the lead is based on your desires. Councilman, go on back. You ask the question. Yeah.
 You did it better than I could, but I guess my question would simply be, why didn't the Beverly Gray Center apply for it as the lead agency or the Urban League, I think, was that the third group? Why didn't one of them, rather than the non-City of Buffalo resident organization apply?
 I unfortunately can't answer that question because we weren't part of the like we didn't have discussions with any of the applicants prior to them applying so that's something that we would have to discuss with the three together. Mr. President, my concern is that, you know, this is a very contentious issue. And I want to make sure that we're doing everything completely legal.
 eyes dotted, T's crossed. And this is a little bit problematic for me. I just, in doing some research, just found out about this actually while the council meeting was going on, or I would have brought this up much earlier. But I don't want to approve something that gets challenged in court and we end up losing and this money is
 kept any longer limbo for our businesses in the city of Buffalo. That's my concern. That's my major concern with this. I just want to make sure that whatever we are doing is being done correctly, legally, by the book, et cetera. And I'll come around to my colleagues. I've been just handed a letter from December 1st, 2022 from National Development Council, in which in this letter, they say on behalf of the National Council for Community Development,
 I'm pleased to submit for your consideration in closed response.
 NDC plans to partner and collaborate with Buffalo Urban League and the exchange at Beverly Gray. So this was in their original letter that they planned on partnering. But from what I'm reading, and that's why I want Corporation Council, and I think the Corporation Council of the City of Buffalo may need to opine on this before there is a vote, if there is a question, because it appears here that NDC plans,
 to me as a novice, is the lead. Now, does that mean that we don't do anything about the ARP and those things? Maybe it doesn't. Maybe it could be carved out. I don't know. We need legal advice so that the ARP money gets out. But if it meant I'm going to vote for Bray Miller, and this may not have done the way that the other money could get out the door,
 I'm in question on whether I can vote on either. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I think there's kind of two questions we have to deal with. You know, the merit.
 I think of using a third party that's not local. I think ideally we would use someone locally if they have different expertise. That is one thing. And having it centralized versus, and I hate to throw out an arbitrary number, but between nine districts, say 17 people facilitating this funding and each taking administrative costs and having it potentially end up being more on the administrative cost side than whether it be someone centralized. That's one question. But then the other question is legally-
 through this process, is it the third, the end organization who's receiving this funding have to be in the city of Buffalo or the third party facilitator? I don't think we've heard that answer from a legal standpoint yet.
 And I'm not putting sticks in that position. I'm just stating for the record, there's the merits of using the third party centralized and hopefully using less of the money for administrative costs, as opposed to sending it through organizations within each district and potentially have more administrative costs versus the legality of the third parties. They're the ultimate organizations receiving the funding of the third party being legally allowed to do it. Absolutely. Council Member Bowman.
 yeah for me at this point it's pretty simple to um i would like to hear a legal opinion to clear that up before voting for anything but i don't want to lose sight of some of my colleagues comments about this and having to make these difficult decisions on these votes and move funding from one pot to another speaks to the greater issue of the budget of the city of buffalo and the difficult decisions
 because revenue is not generating. We're not bringing in the revenues that are needed. So essentially, yeah,
 puts pressure and we're not able to no one here at this table i don't believe wants to take money away from community organizations and we were all very happy to deliver uh for our neighborhood businesses but um a lot of consideration a lot of effort moving forward needs to be taken into account for the city of buffalo budget where it stands and the stress that we're all under making these uh difficult decisions thank you
 Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't have brought this up, but this confusion just leads to the point that we got an email from one of the businesses that came for finance, Valencia Transportation. And he has emails coming back from 2021. And he has emails coming back from 2021.
 where there's no real good information for him. He's asking the question, am I going to get funded? And they say, oh, we funded you, but he isn't seeing any good thing in his account. And there's just a list of emails back and forth. And so that type of confusion lends itself to, what are we doing here?
 Are these businesses going to get this money? Are they going to get in a timely fashion? Are they going to be denied? What is the process? I think the majority leader said right up front that we wanted to see this money targeted in our districts with organizations that knew that community. Do we really have to have a third party come in and help them with that?
 I'm questioning that. Again, we wanna make sure the money is targeted in our district. We wanted it to be disconnected from city hall. That was the other piece because we wanted to be independent. We wanted to be in our business trips. And this, I think just,
 If it doesn't give us pause, it should give us more pause because this is just a mess. We've had, again, two and a half years to even do this. We've been talking about this over the last several weeks and we haven't flushed this piece out. Here we are making a motion to approve something that isn't clearly...
 presented to us. And it's just that's how we do business. It's unfortunate because these businesses, as you said, are struggling. They're drowning and they need this money desperately. So I know when Mr. Mahaffey came, he said, well, it's going to take 60 days after this to even get that money out to them. So there's still this process and this is just muddy in the waters and even more. So I'm definitely concerned about how we move forward. And I really would like us to revisit making it go to
 our districts, those organizations within our district that know the community that can get that money out very quickly as opposed to going through a third party and these other agreements that we have to do with them. These folks have waited long enough and we should be able to deliver to them. Thank you. So the item itself, did we lose Ms. Hicks? They're having conversations.
 The item itself, Council Members, says the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning requests this honorable body to authorize the mayor or his designees to enter into a contract with NDC. That's it. For $4.3 million of funds from the state and local fiscal recovery funds. And there is nothing on here of Urban League. There is nothing on here of Beverly Gray. So...
 We're holding it in advance and finishing our meeting and coming back to the end as we are getting some clarification. Is there anything else before we go on with the agenda? All right. Anybody else? Go back to it. All right. We'll come back to this item. Item number 70, request approval for ARPA's spending plan budget amendment number four. Mr. Chairman, can we hold that in advance as well? Absolutely.
 Second by Council Member White. Item number 71, Parking Department Obtaining Tow Vehicle. Motion to approve items 71 and 72. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 73, Tow and Contract Extension. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 74, Certificate of Appointment for Director of Personnel. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Golomba.
 Item number 75, commingling event application for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 76, items returned to city clerk by a mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 76 and through 78. Second by Council Member Freelon. Item 79, appoint general planner. Motion to receive and file item 78.
 I'm sorry. 78 through 81. 82. All right. All of those are being received and filed? 79 has to go to civil service. I thought 79 was going to civil service. 79 is going to civil service. So receiving file 78, seconded by Council Member Glumbach.
 Item number 79, appoint general planner. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilman Bowman. Item number 80, notice of appointment. Motion to receive and file items 80 through 82.
 Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 83, concerns regarding Buffalo Police Department citizen complaint process. Motion to send to police oversight. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 84, the Buffalo Board of Education leaves district seats out of sync with population changes. Motion to send to CD and Law Department. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I guess as long as we're on following rules and legislation, this is an article that came out recently on one of the blogs in the city of Buffalo, and it deals with the Board of Education and the lack of having been reapportioned after the 2020 census. Now, I believe it's a federal law that states that after each
 2020 census that each political entity, whether it's a council, whether it's Congress, whether it's Senate, whether it's the state, whether it's a board of elections, that they have to reapportion themselves so that you have one person, one vote in their districts. Well, I believe it was last year, 2022, that there were school board elections in the city of Buffalo, which were using the same maps from 2010.
 When I asked some questions in the past, the finger was pointed at basically this honorable body saying that, oh, well, the council was supposed to do this. And I did some checking and could not find anywhere where the council is required to do this.
 I got in touch with some former school board members and was told that always in the past that it was the school board that reapportioned themselves. I mean, could you imagine after the OCAB people went after us for legally doing reapportionment for this council,
 Had we reapportioned the Board of Education, they would have gone bonkers about that, even though it would be the legal and proper thing to do. I do so wish that they would have been paying a little bit of attention to the Board of Education rather than doing their Don Quixote attempt at trying to get their so-called political enemies in trouble, because I think that with the Board of Ed not reapportioning,
 after the 2020 census, that the election last year is questionable at best. And I think that there are some federal issues that could come into play if you ignored,
 a federal law that you are supposed to reapportionment after the federal census, you know, does that jeopardize it? I was told by some attorney friends of mine that it does, that it jeopardizes the city of Buffalo Board of Education being able to grant, be granted funds from the federal government. So I just want to find out,
 Who is responsible for this? You know, the finger pointing has to stop. If it is the council, when did that change? Although, as I said, I have not found that anywhere. And if it was the Board of Education, why wasn't it done in 2020, 2021, prior to the 2022 election? Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
 Excited? Item number 85, public hearing notice for liquor license 760 offer. Motion to receive and file items 85 and 86. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 87, secret negative declaration. Motion to adopt.
 second by council member for your loan petitions item number 88 special use 2065 delaware motion to send the legislation city planning board items 88 through 91. second by council member bowman submission list civil service item number one appoint chief building inspector motion is to approve item number one second by councilman wing item number two a point fire captain
 Motion is to receive and file items two through and including five. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Finance. Item number six, annual action plan amendment for special economic development. Motion is to. What's the motion? I'll hold the debates.
 Item number seven. Second by Council Member Bollman, sir. Item number seven, change order consultant services for curb management plan and flexible smart street corridor. Motion to approve items number seven, eight, and nine. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 10, G-TECHNA contract extension. Motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Noah Koester. Item number 11, request approval of ARPA spending plan budget amendment number 4. Motion to receive and file item number 11 and 12. Second by Majority Leader Riviere. Community Development, item number 13, reported cell 154, Brignan. Motion to approve item number 13. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 14, request to speak on issues at Erie Basin Marina.
 This item is open. I think we could table it. Receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 15 reported, so 817 Glenwood. Motion to approve 15, 16, and 17. Second by Council Member White.
 Item number 18 concerns Allen Street Capital Improvement Project and Buffalo Arts Commission. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation item number 19, full start license 2824 aka 2820 Bailey. Motion to approve items 19 through 27 with conditions on 19 and 19.
 27. All right. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Resolutions, item number 92, Chapter 4, 13-59, Sidewalk Cafes Ordinance Amendment. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Ferriero. Item number 93, fee waiver for River Rock Ronde 5K. Motion to approve items 93 through 98. All right. On 98, we'll send a reminder to finance. Is that 99?
 sign oh then these are okay so we didn't include it all right second by council member why item number 99 art support for gig workers motion to adopt remainder to finance second by council member why on this item um if you check orange county florida's website um and there's been articles about how orange county has gone beyond helping those who have brick and mortar businesses
 And when I read it, I realized there are workers, tons of workers in the city of Buffalo who suffered during COVID.
 who may not have a store, but according to what Orange County did, as long as they worked and they had a business license and worked for multiple people. So they couldn't work for, for instance, cut the grass for Aunt Jackie and be eligible. It had to be working for multiple people, whether that is taxi drivers, Uber drivers, delivery persons,
 people who had legitimate businesses or business concerns were able to prove their finances and they pay their taxes that they were eligible in Orange County to apply for these funds. So it asked the administration to look at gig workers as since we were told we couldn't find
 anybody to give the $500,000 to. There are many other people out there who suffered during the pandemic that I think kind of were forgotten. And so thank you for support on this or go to finance so that we can hear from whoever is going to administer this contract about ensuring that gig workers are included. Thank you.
 Item number 100, South Buffalo Irish Festival. Motion to approve items 100 and 101. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Motion to revisit item number two. And if you'll just give me two seconds here. All right. So I'll wait. Since it was Council Member Golombek's question, I just want to make sure he's hearing Corporation Council's answer, and then we can move on.
 Assistant Corporation Council, Hayden King. I reviewed the RFA and the full terms and conditions. So the city of Buffalo has the discretion to amend the RFA. So we can amend the eligibility requirements to amend the section where it talks about the applicant being a 501c3 located within the city of Buffalo to remove this section that says it's located within the city of Buffalo so that NDC could be the primary applicant
 third party facilitator or the lead facilitator so let me get this straight mr president so we're removing that language right now or it has been removed before when was that language we can remove it right now oh so you're saying this body can remove it right now oh
 No, Ms. Hicks, and I'll come to council members. I just want- It's a big body, but- Who can amend that document? We didn't write that document.
 I believe that will be OSP. The Office of Strategic Planning wrote the document. Okay, so you want to opine on what's been opined? Absolutely. I mean, I think the question was, you know, are we within our legal rights to hire NDC as the lead based on what was in the RFA? And I think Corporation Council has said, you know,
 You know if if we want to keep Ndc. as the lead we're within our legal rights to make any changes that the city sees fit in its sole discretion as what was shared on the Rfa. Website and the information that was made public during the application process. However, my recommendation is for the Buffalo Urban League or the exchange at Beverly Gray to be the lead.
 On the administration of the program, they're already familiar with what's coming. It would reduce any additional delays in getting money out to the business community and we could move forward with the program. Thank you. Council members can thank you. Council President. I don't think this is wrong.
 That we could move forward and have the Urban League and the Beverly Gray Center be the lead. But I don't think we have a contract in front of us saying that they're the lead on it, that we would be approving. So things get a little tricky at that point, I think, I guess, for a corporation council. There's no contract right now. It's currently in the stage of being negotiated right now. Council Member Revere? Mr. Chairman, an RFA went out.
 and OSP framed the wording in the RFA and we have the wording before us which says you have to be in the city if that is to change and this council is to uh they need to send us an amendment or something saying look at there has to be a substitution um for us to consider I mean we what we have is what's in front of us right now um and I know it's all time sensitive and we're trying to
 cover, you know, make sure that we don't expose ourselves to any legal jeopardy. I think, um,
 They may have to file something with the Common Council because you're right. We can't change something that they've done. They have to come back to us and say, hey, we're, you know, this is a substitute. We're amending the language. We're sending it to you because right now we're only voting on what's before us. And that is based on the language that Council Member Golombik said.
 properly brought up to our attention. And going forward, and when you put out an RFA or anything, how you frame it is important. If you frame it this way, they shouldn't be considered based on how it's framed in the RFA. So the problem is within the Office of Strategic Planning. I mean, they put out the RFA framework,
 and they did not follow their own rfa so uh it's back in their court councilmember wingle mr chair uh first i just want to clarify what item are we on are we on item number 68 69 or 70 or item number two with item are we we're on the at what number 70 69 it is the item of the small business i don't have an item 69 are we on item 69
 Which that's not the item that was called, which item was called. We asked that we reconsider. We go back to item number two.
 and we're not on item 69. yeah we did ask that we revisit item number two and if we can clean that up by going to item number two okay item motion is to rescind the previous motion to send the legislation motion is now to approve second by Council member White motion to revisit item 69 second by Council member White
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the clarification. Mr. Chair, Council President, what we were taught as children is to not change the rules in the middle of the game. But you can have substitutions in the game. So what I'm not willing to do is change the rules after the fact just to make it fit. What I am willing to do, if this is a request for applications, if the lead on the application becomes one of the organizations that is located in the city of Buffalo,
 then all the Office of Strategic Planning needs to do is submit to us an application for permission to enter into that agreement with the Buffalo organization. That would demystify all of this. So can we just do that?
 We can't. I think that this is proper deliberation. There has been something that is raised on this floor as to an RFA. So I agree with you. The the office could. And I do understand that finally, Corporation Council is on the way down and Mr. Mahaffey. But at the end of the day, they would have to resubmit something. But I'll just say this.
 Because all of this was wrapped up in, we will have more money on the streets for small businesses. There is no way that I'm willing to vote, let's give Bray Miller half a million dollars and then let's figure out after August, what we do for small businesses, because that to me
 that would, that spits in the face of all those folks who came. So I'm not against them resubmitting anything that then that is their right to resubmit something. So, so, so, so my, my, my concern, and I guess my suggestion would be to have the application.
 be resubmitted with the Buffalo organization as the lead. Now, I don't know how that will impact NDC contributing an additional $2 million. I don't know how that's going to impact that. So that being said, I'm willing to give OSP the opportunity to do whatever they need to do to make this body able to vote on this today. Yeah. And I think that, I mean, unless we're voting on it at about five o'clock, because they would have to...
 And I'll come to Councilman Glumbet. The other organizations have not said that they are capable of being the lead organization. And I think swapping names to make something fit. You know, I wear size nine shoes. Sometimes I buy nine and a half. I got nine and a half on now and my toe is hurting. It just ain't right. At the end of the day, you put out a request. And at the end of the day, they got to go back to those organizations and say, can you handle this? Because they might put...
 Any organizations ABC organization up as the lead and they go we we can't handle it. That's why we needed this organization. So hopefully they come down, but I get you. So, so Mr. Chair is there. I know that the applicant deep the paperwork says that they were identified as the best organization for providing financial assistance to small businesses throughout Buffalo as part of the request for application process.
 She talked about the technology they have for this particular situation. She talked about how they already worked for the city of Buffalo and the scope of work that will be needed. They have the capacity to meet the need. My question is, is there an organization in the city of Buffalo that can handle or that you feel has, that Ms. Hicks might feel has the capacity to actually administer in the way that will ensure
 that our colleagues and their constituents and their business owners actually have these funds in a very timely manner.
 There were other organizations that applied. A couple of the organizations that applied applied for specific neighborhoods only, not for a citywide program, which is what we were really looking for. The runner up organization was a partnership between two nonprofits, two well-known nonprofits locally, but they did not come with that additional loan fund, which we thought was an added benefit to the business community.
 So what I heard, just so that I could be, make sure that I'm understanding, what I heard was there are organizations that apply, but to only handle certain sections of the city, but not the entire city, which means some of our business districts would be left out.
 Correct. Okay, thank you. But there was an organization, there were two well known organizations that agreed to partner together because of capacity issues one organization couldn't do it alone. So they agreed to partner together, but again they didn't come with the additional $2 million.
 And Councilmember, thank you for that question, because what it says is then if you switch, if we were to switch this on the floor, we could also be losing $2 million. And let's be clear that $2 million is what our businesses have asked us for. This has gone from $4.3 million to $6.3 million.
 So we need to consider that and we can deliver more. And then we also have the Buffalo Urban League and the Beverly Exchange Center. And plus, I am very confident with the leadership at both those organizations to work very well with NDC to ensure that our businesses are made whole due to the the the things that they've gone through as a result from the COVID-19 pandemic.
 councilman i don't know if this is possible is to amend the eligibility requirements that requires them to be in the city i can always be amend that or to say not just the city but outside of the city only because of the
 the concerns you had have an organization that is bringing $2 million into the city. So I just don't know if we can amend the requirements. I'm not an attorney, so I'll leave it to the law department. Yeah, the terms and conditions of the RFA specifically provide that the city of Buffalo has a discretion to amend the agreement. So we can do that. So we have heard, I'll just say, and then I'll go to Councilman Scanlon.
 I'm not, I haven't talked to any of these organizations. I'm not going to take, I'm not going to change something that this council later, if this thing happens,
 fails and is challenged, then it's the council did it. No council member here is interviewed urban league. Nobody's interviewed Beverly gray. Nobody's interviewed this company. Why would we change it? This is not, this is not our problem to eat. We got a document. We got a legitimate question. We got answers. And the final answer was we can amend it. We can change it.
 I promise you whose name won't be on change is something that came that I didn't author, that I haven't been in a meeting, that I don't know anything about. Darius Jabron Pritchett's name won't be on it. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I think my colleague raised a legitimate point at the start of all of this. And through this
 deliberation these discussions other interesting points have been made in particular councilmember wingo's concern about the additional funding from ndc um i think we're still waiting for some answers i believe it was stated some people are coming down to try and provide some information but i think if we get to the point during this meeting where um the majority of us aren't comfortable and it does seem that way i don't know how the council president would feel about uh
 calling a special session for later in the week before we go on recess because one thing I don't want to do is delay this long term. Yeah, I think everyone who's spoken today has made it very clear we want this money out into our business districts as quickly as possible. Absolutely. We've had conversation for months.
 And we don't want to delay it any longer. So if need be, I'd be open to attending a special session later in the week for any sort of substitutions or any other material that needs to be provided. If the council president's open to that or other. Yeah, if there's an appetite for it, I think it's the best thing to do. I think that regardless of whatever else we hear right now that we we need support.
 That trust factor needs to be built, and we need to know that whatever move this council does is going to be legal, but I don't want to go on recess in August and not get ARP out of the door. I think, you know, and if we can't, but I also do not want to vote then.
 on the Bray Miller situation, because to me, that would be unfair that we vote, that we go, let's get half a million dollars out for Bray Miller, but the millions for small businesses, we're going to hold up. Would you be okay with that? And Council Member Wingo, you have some, or I'm sorry. No, I think Mr. Golombak, but I'll speak after Mr. Golombak. Council Member Golombak,
 Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. I have, I'm doing this research on my iPhone, so it's, I'm not exactly sure where this is, but under note, it says the city reserves the right to reject any or all applications. No applications shall be accepted after the stated deadline, okay? I think this is the key. No amendments or changes to applications will be accepted after the submission
 closing date and time. I think that's the problem with this. And, you know. There's a link right underneath that. If it does click here to access the full request for applications, it'll take you to the full terms and conditions. And there's a section that talks about where the city in its discretion can amend the entire agreement. Mr. Chair. And that's what I think. Motion to adjourn.
 There we go. Yeah, thank you. And once again, I just want to make sure that we're doing everything legally, I want to make sure we're doing everything fairly. I want to make sure that if we do vote on this that there's not going to be I mean anybody can sue us for any reason, but I want to make sure that there's no legal reason, or anything that we did.
 that would give them justification for opposing this. And I would rather wait until the end of the week to get this money out than there be some sort of litigation which holds it up even longer. Thank you. Thank you. I second that. I second that Mr. President. I'm just saying, so if we agreed to hold a special session, I wanna get that done before August and this week, give OSP a chance to figure out
 what to bring us, I would just suggest that we not receive it the day of whatever meeting we call so that there can be further discussion and that comfort that especially the money that is going out
 for small businesses. And I think to Council Member Wingo's question, is there a way that a local business, a local organization could lead and NDC stay on as a partner so that they're able to bring the $2 million to the table? So that's just my thought. And we'll get ready to call those items and probably a table. So Mr. Chair, I wanna make sure that my sentiments are clear.
 Uh, Ndc. Did apply. They are not located in the city of Buffalo. We did ask that question. It was answered. I am saying that a local business organization becomes the lead on this application of the three that has already applied the application also already says
 that NDC will be providing any technical assistance to the organizations as they administer the money. It's already in here. We just need to have an application that we can approve, not an application that we can approve, but we need to have a request to enter into an agreement with an applicant that we can approve.
 And that applicant, based on the paperwork we have in front of us, says that they must be in the city of Buffalo. So since they are already named, as you pointed out on that original document in December of 2021, wait a minute, make sure I say this on the record, December of 2022, since they're already stated in the application or the letter of intent, whichever it is,
 Name one of them. Corporation Council. Is that something that is murky? Is that something that is feasible? I mean, Corporation Council, the Corporation Council is here, but, you know, if that question can be answered, that'd be great. If she can answer it.
 Corporation Council, Kevett Chambers. So I did speak with the director of OSP as well as Director Hicks. It appears what happened here is not something that's necessarily uncommon. It's where you have multiple agencies come together and submit a response to a solicitation.
 that's issued by the city. So we have Beverly Gray that issued. We have the Buffalo Urban League and we also have NDC that issue. So the agreement would be with all three entities so that would satisfy the requirement.
 with NDC providing the technical assistance that the Urban League needs as well as Beverly Gray. So that's why they're brought on to provide that technical assistance, but it does satisfy the local requirement that was there as well. All right. So we've heard, and I think there's still some question that
 This council seems as if this council is not ready to vote on those items that we have held held in advance. We can get back with strategic planning. We'll try to work to the end, but we need we need to work. We need to be this council needs to be comfortable and it needs to be comfortable on all of these things. And I think to force a vote at this point would be unfair to this council who some of the information was just provided today.
 So we'll call the items that are in abeyance. Yep. Item number 69, permission to enter into agreement with NDC to administer small business program. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Council Member Furlow.
 Item number 70, request approval of ARPA's spending plan, budget amendment number four. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Council Member Bowman. And finance, item number six, annual action plan amendment, special economic development. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Wingo.