Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman? Present. Councilwoman Everhart? Present. Councilmember Ferraletto? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Majority Leader Hawks and Pope? Here. Councilmember Nowakowski? Here. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Council President Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation with liberty and justice for all. I would ask you to please remain standing for today's invocation, which will be given by our guest invocator today, Reverend Dr. Jeff Bowe of the Love Alive Full Gospel Baptist Church. Thank you for being with us today. Let us pray. We're so grateful this afternoon for this occasion in these hallowed halls. Thank you for the leadership that you have appointed to the city of Buffalo. I ask your grace, your blessings, your mercy upon each one individually and collectively as they observe, protect, and preserve the people that you have placed in this city. Lord, I ask for your mercies and your grace to meet us at our point of need. We thank you for this gathering, we thank you for these hallowed halls. And we thank you for all that you're doing in each one of us. We give you honor and praise, glory with thanksgiving. In the blessed name of our savior and soon coming king, we pray and all God's children said amen. Amen. God bless you. Thank you. Reverend Dr. Bo, thank you so much for being here today. We appreciate it. Council members in memoriams? Council member Glumba? Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock neighborhood lost a young woman, 30 years old, Summerlyn Toth in a very, very horrible car accident last week. I know her mom and her dad, I know the Toth family from the neighborhood. And I can't imagine what they're going through, but Offer my condolences and my sympathy for them. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. Also over the weekend, former Congress member Henry Nowak passed away. He was a Riverside High School basketball player back in the 50s, a stalwart on the team. I believe he went into the DA's office, became Comptroller for Erie County, became Congress member. And a little connection, I worked with his office when I was an intern and a community activist in the 80s because there was an attempt to move the thruway from along the waterfront between Sheridan Drive and roughly Forest Avenue. And there was a plan that was put together by his office and then Council Member David Rutecky. to move it along the rail bed corridor. And that would have given us back our waterfront that was taken away from us in 1959, when a lot of other bad decisions were made by New York State for Buffalo and the future of Buffalo. But unfortunately he retired, Dave Reteki retired, and that sort of fell by the wayside. And every five years or so, I bring that resolution up. And I remember running into him years ago and he said, he goes, if you ever need me to come and talk on it, I'd be happy to. He's also the father of Judge Henry Nowak, who I believe is on the state supreme court now. And he was our housing court judge for a very, very long time. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. Council President Protep-Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. Lovejoy District, we lost a very influential leader in Martha McMillan. She was block club leader of the Brinkman Sumner Block Club, very active in the community. She would hold backpack giveaways, deliver resources for the members of her block club for her street. Very classy lady, always fancy, well-dressed, and she loved the senior ball. She loved to attend events citywide. I think a lot of you would know her if you saw her face, but she made a major impact in our community, and she will be sorely missed. In addition to those who have been mentioned, I would ask that you please keep in our thoughts any members of the armed forces or first responder community who may have lost their lives in service since our last meeting. For those that we've mentioned here today, we'll now have a moment of silence. We have several presentations to begin today's meeting. So to get things started, I would welcome to the podium Majority Leader Halton Pope, who has two presentations. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. In this day and age, and doing the work that we do, but in this environment when we're losing so many young people and so many young people get distracted by a few things. I think it's important that we honor those who do the right thing. I was doing my job, and somebody decided it would be a good idea to permanently borrow a few items out of my car, though it was locked. Just two weeks ago, I got an interesting call from the community about some young people. I'm going to ask them to come down, some young individuals who... They found some of my items and they kept them safe. And so I want to have Cordavion, Cordaviana. Who else is here with me? And Jayon Boney as well. These are three of the young individuals who came and they actually found my devices, some of them, and they kept them safe. And so I wanted to take a moment to honor them. They were so sweet about it too. So, you know, while we're focusing on other things, I want to make sure that we... Recognize them for their outstanding honesty and for their integrity. Your commendable actions have demonstrated the highest standards of civic responsibility and your community spirit. Your selflessness and dedication to doing what's right. To serve as an inspiring inspiration, it should be inspiring to all of us. I thank you all. They were so sweet. Let me tell you about this one in the middle. She was the feistiest of them all. And she was like, I'm going to be on the news. So I hope she's on the news. But I'm so grateful for them. And so I want to take a moment, you have to acknowledge them publicly for the good work that they do. This is how we make sure that our community thrives. You are the best of us. You represent everything we want to be. I tell people everywhere I go, and my dad told me that we're not supposed to be the thermometer that reads the temperature. We're supposed to be the thermostat. We change atmospheres. And you all are changing the atmosphere and community everywhere you go. So I want to thank you so much. for what you've done. Ladies and gentlemen, please give them a round of applause. We're gonna take a little picture. I also wanna acknowledge their mom and Miss Earline who when I was looking for my items, cause I thought I was a detective too, she overheard me and so she heard the children. This is for you, Cordabiana. And was also the one who reached out. The fact that I remember your names will tell you something. And this is for you. We're gonna take a picture. Wait, the rest of them are here. Jakari, beautiful. Mom, Shakara, Frazier. Come on down. Thank you. Beautiful. And you can't do any of this without a mom who teaches them how to do the right thing. So thank you, Ms. Shakara. I've got a lot of stuff. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd also like to invite up Abigail Green, Layla Green, Chloe Kibbe, and Catherine Kaye. I don't want to pronounce your name wrong. Thank you. And Ms. Talisa King. Whereas Talisa King tackled several rheumatoid arthritis with severe rheumatoid arthritis with resilience, turning her personal battle into a mission to help others, In 2018, she became the arthritis support network leader of Buffalo, New York, through the Arthritis Foundation, becoming the only person certified in western New York as a Live Yes Connect group leader. and facilitator, fostering connection, social support, and educational activities within the community. Now, therefore, I hereby proclaim the Common Council of the City of Buffalo honors and celebrates the exemplary dedication and contributions of Talisa King. Her work for the Arthritis Foundation has made a significant impact on the lives of those with arthritis, and her efforts have brought hope and support to countless individuals in our community and beyond. Ms. King. Thank you. We also want to honor these young people as a certificate to acknowledge each of these young individuals for their unwavering efforts. in raising awareness around juvenile arthritis. Your tireless advocacy is illuminated in the challenges faced by hundreds of thousands of children in the United States who live with this condition. Through your leadership and your advocacy, you have significantly contributed to improving access to care and providing invaluable resources for families affected by juvenile arthritis. So Ms. Abigail, Chloe, and... There you go. Layla, you can take a picture. You can look right up there. OK. I wasn't ready, but I guess I will. Hi everybody, I would just like to say thank you for this special honor as well as honoring my JA friends here next to me. This effort is something that I truly hold near and dear to my heart based off of my own personal condition. And just vowing to want to be the change that I wanted to see in the world and in my area since we didn't have any local resources. If everybody is available and you're not busy, August 17th is our Walk to Cure Arthritis. It's only one lap around Delaware Park. I brought flyers, I have additional information. I host connect groups for free for people with any form of arthritis locally, online. I also host the National African American Connect Group as well. For people with any form of arthritis, as you can see, my young friends here or adults. Regardless of what type you have, if it is not something I specialize in, I can put you in touch with, again, free resources. is the key to remember no one should have to fight this battle daily alone. So I have resources if anybody is interested and if you're available, as I said, August 17th, you'll see me and all of my friends at Delaware Park. Thank you. Next we have a presentation by Council Member Nowakowski. Stand to my right and then I'll bring you to the podium. Good afternoon everyone. So July is when we celebrate disability pride in the month of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. I last week had a wonderful time when I went to VIA, which is the visually impaired advancement organization that works on the behalf of those that are visually impaired and blind. I met another Polish guy named Ray Zelinski who's to my right, and he showed me around the entire facility. And I could not stop talking about it for days to anybody that was willing to listen. Because I think that this is something that all council members should do a tour to recognize all the services that they provide. The fact that they do manufacturing workplace training. Basically, if you have a need, they will figure it out and they will try to make sure that the space is not only functional, but make sure that you can live your best life and a life that's full of meaning and opportunity. And so I'm going to read because I want to be able to acknowledge their hard work. So I'm going to read a few sections before we hear from Ray. And that's whereas the visually impaired advancement has a rich history in Western New York, beginning with the Buffalo Association for the Blind in 1907, providing crucial services and receiving recognition from Helen Keller. Whereas the organization has pioneered numerous programs, including the first preschool for the blind children, orientation and mobile training, and specialized low vision clinic. Whereas since 1996, VIA has overseen switchboard operations at the Buffalo Veterans Administration Medical Center, employing a full staff of blind and visually impaired operators. Whereas VIA continues to offer comprehensive services including vision, rehabilitation, employment training, and successful manufacturing department empowering individuals with visual impairments to achieve their highest potential. So today we have to increasingly take down the stigma that people that are living with disabilities have. They are contributing members of our society. They work, they have husbands, wives, they travel, they do everything that we do and that we take pride in. And to know that a little known fact that I was kept on telling everybody was when you see the gloves in Wegmans, all those gloves that keep our food safety and products safe for us to consume at Wegmans are packaged by the manufacturing facility at Via. So without further ado, I would like you to hear from Ray Zelinski. Ray? Thank you very much. Just going to hold this up because it's a little short. No, you're good. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you so much for the opportunity to come and speak to you all about VIA and kind of who we are. So as Councilmember Nowakowski accurately represented, we are an institution that is an agency that's been around for over 100 years, helping the blind and visually impaired community of Western New York. So all eight counties in Western New York we serve, so we have a pretty large geographic area, and we have a large demographic area with age. So if anybody is, you know, one and a half, two years old, all the way up to, that's when I came in at age two for the preschool, and then all the way up to 102, and if you make it past 102, that's not a hard cut off, we'll still serve you. So anybody that's struggling with vision loss to the point of legal blindness. Legal blindness is a term that encompasses 2,200 when we're talking about visual acuity. Dr. Simmons, who we're very fortunate to have on staff, a low vision optometrist and he offers a service for low vision evaluations and glasses that does not require a declaration of legal blindness so a majority of our services 99% of them do so if you're looking for workplace training if you're looking for travel with the white cane service animal social work TVI teachers of the visually impaired when you're going through school if you're looking to have your home adapted for low vision All of those services require legal blindness. The low vision clinic does not. So if you are having any types of vision issues that perhaps your normal optometrist just says that, you know, we don't have the capability of supporting that type of vision degeneration, you can come to VIA. We'll do a low vision evaluation, and we'll see what we can do about some low vision optometry to help you in your day-to-day and make sure that we eliminate a lot of those pain points in the vision. The main thing is that we want visually impaired individuals of all visual acuities. I myself have no vision. So from no vision all the way up to legal blindness and then low vision, which is just outside of that legal blindness threshold. We just want to make sure that everybody's being provided the same opportunities, able to provide expertise to their community in the way of being through employment, through education, whatever that might be. And making sure that we provide them the right tools and resources to allow them those opportunities. And so very, very honored to have the time to speak with you all this afternoon and I really much appreciate Councilmember Nowakowski's visit, absolutely anybody in this room is welcome. It's not just limited to council members. So if you'd like to come through and see what we do in our agency, I'd be more than happy to book the tour with you. And it was obviously no charge or anything like that. We also do lunch and learns, where we would come to your place of employment or education, or if you're a community-based organization, we would come to you and we would do some hands-on stations. It's a great way to kind of help put yourself in the shoes of someone who's visually impaired. Not to say that, oh, wow, it's going to be so horrible if I lost my vision. just so that you understand that there are techniques and supports for when your life changes. It is not over. And we will help you gain the greatest success and independence that you possibly can achieve. And whatever those goals might be, we'll meet you wherever you are in life. So thank you so much again for the opportunity, and I look forward to meeting some of you hopefully inside VIA, come through our doors, and we'll give you a tour and see what we're all about. Thank you so much for being here. Next we have a presentation by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Good afternoon everyone. Today I have the honor and pleasure of presenting a proclamation to Todd Varwerk. He is the Chief Policy Officer of Western New York Independent Living. I met Todd in 2019 at a candidate's forum and ever since then I've been extremely impressed with his leadership and advocacy for persons with disabilities. And that advocacy has helped this council work for everyone in our community and help their quality of life. So I'll just take a moment to read some of the information about Todd. in his work. So he is, Todd is the Chief Policy Officer of Western New York Independent Living, has dedicated over 30 years of advocating for the rights of persons with disabilities. His extensive expertise in ADA issues has greatly benefited the local, statewide, and national communities through his service on various advisory committees, including the City of Buffalo Mayor's Advisory Committee. on persons with disabilities and the Erie County Advisory Council on persons with disabilities. His leadership extends to boards of Housing Opportunities Made Equal, Voice Buffalo, and the National Council on Independent Living. I hereby proclaim that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo recognizes and celebrates disability pride awareness, honoring Todd Varwerk for his unwavering commitment and exceptional contributions to the disability community. And I'd like to give Todd a moment to say a few words. Yeah, lean it over this way. As members of the council know, I am never a man of few words, but you have a long meeting ahead of you, so I'm going to try and change that. As everybody knows, this is July's Disability Pride Month. And this particular week, Friday will be the 34th anniversary of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act. So my job is pretty simple. My job is to make sure that the city of good neighbors includes its neighbors with all types of disabilities. I look forward to continuing to work with the mayor and this council to make sure that that continues so that we can bring 21st century inclusion to Buffalo. Okay. On a motion by Majority Leader Hall and Pope, seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman, the minutes of the stated meeting held on July 9th, 2024 were approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of the late files. Clerk from the top, please. Item number one, amendment number five to the American Rescue Plan. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, appointment of advisory committee for persons with disabilities. Motion to approve items two and three. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number four, CVS Caremark, PCS Health. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number five, landmark application for 2221 Seneca Street. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Gombach. Item number six, permission to accept funds from NYSERDA Clean Energy Communities Program. Motion to send a finance. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number seven, report a sale portion of 442 Berkshire. Motion to send a community development. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number eight, report a portion of 12 Brighton. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number nine, report a 62 Cortland. Motion to send it to community development. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 10, report a 151 Gardner. Motion to approve items 10 through and including 13. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 14, report is to a portion of 535 Northland. Motion to send to community development. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Item number 15, request to enter into a designated developer agreement for open Buffalo. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Seconded by Council Member Glombach. Item number 17, certificate of necessity for City Hall 9th floor design. Motion to receive and file item number 17 and 18. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 19, change order number 5 for 271, grant window replacement. Motion to approve items 19 through and including 31. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 32 has been withdrawn. Item number 33, permission to enter into 10th amendment to sub grant agreement. Motion to approve items 33 through and including 41. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski and Council Member Bowman has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to speak on item 34. It's an extension of a contract for Gitter Dunn, which is a green waste recycling facility that the city of Buffalo contracts with. And this is a business that I have been We've had members of the Seneca Babcock community come in and speak of the harmful impacts that they've had from this company. So what we're doing is we are extending it on a month to month basis so we can put out an RFP and try to find another vendor that can provide the services. So this is a means to an end of potentially opening up ourselves and having an opportunity to contract with another business. So I just wanted to explain a little bit about what this is, but this is an extension on a month to month basis. Thank you. Okay. Item number 42, permission to accept 2020 mental health and crisis response grant. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 43, Tina Kroskowski, 15,000. Motion to send items 43 through and including 52 to the claims committee. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Permits and inspections, item number 53, full store license 83 aka 81 Grant Street. Motion to approve items 53 and 54. Seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item number 55, used car dealer license 1712 Clinton Street. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Golombic and President Potap-Bowman has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I have sent the conditions to the clerk, the law department. But essentially it's no exterior storage of tires, no storage of junk vehicles. And this is on the corner of Clinton and Glenn. And we also put a condition concerning and relative to not blocking the sight lines on a major corridor. Thank you. Item number 56, subrecipient agreement for ground work. Motion to approve items 56 through and including 59. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 60, permission to enter into a contract for G-Techno. Motion to send a finance. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 61, proposed agreement with Bencare Payroll Insurance. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 62, item recalled from Mayor 24-1079. Motion to receive and file item 62 through and including 67. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 68, notices of appointments, and provisional or permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 69, notices of appointments, seasonal or hourly. Motion to receive and file items 69 and 70. Seconded by President Rotem-Bowman. Item number 71, AMR response times letter. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Councilmember Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I did submit this letter to AMR and we will reconvene when this is in finance, when we return from recess. And this response has been brewing in my office for quite some time. It began where my office got a call from a school principal where a student was facing an emergency. And they were calling 911 and ultimately were not getting a response, they end up calling my office in the middle of that response. That was kind of shocking that my number came to mind first over an emergency personnel. It then grew by there was an incident in my district in the Larkinville neighborhood where an establishment had a patron that suffered a medical emergency. They called the proper authorities it was not responded to. And then further up a few days later I had received another email response where medical professionals were having an event in actually the North District. And I did let the North District Councilmember know and they had notified the authorities. They then were not received a response, it just began to compound where conversations need to be had especially when we have something so important like emergency responses when someone is facing a medical emergency and so we did discover a staff discovered where the contract has not been renewed since 2021 so there's a lot of questions concerns and I'm looking forward to a conversation that shows data shows mapping call logs you name it we have a lot of things to to discuss on this and I know that I briefly talked to to this morning about it and um i'd like other council members to opine now or whenever um this is heard when we return from recess thank you mr president thank you council members you mentioned you and i talked about this this morning during my time in the council this has been an on again off again issue the previous provider had major issues that i called them to task on many years ago the current provider has At first, done a fantastic job, then there were issues, it's bounced back and forth. One thing we talked about this morning is that I have staff working on that will be filed for our next meeting is a resolution asking the administration to look into us creating our own ambulance service. I know other cities do it. There's no reason that we can't do it, whether it's embedded within the fire department or things of that nature. I think we would have greater control over things. Holding people more accountable quite frankly could almost create a feeder program to the fire department where you have people who are already EMT certified And could become fire members of the fire department So for a number of reasons I want the administration to look into the possibility of us creating our own ambulance service and that'll be filed for the next meeting Councilman we're going back. Thank you, mr Thank you, Mr. President. I concur with your comments. I know that we had some problems in the past. And Council Member Nowakowski called me to talk about what those issues were in the past. We had, I think, twice children, like 10, 11, 12 years old had broken legs, broken bones during a football game. And they had to wait for over an hour for the rescue squad to get there. And I had hoped that we were beyond this as well. But I had gotten a couple of phone calls during last year's football season that there were a couple of issues that the president concerned about. It wasn't anywhere near like it had been in the past, but that there was a concern that was there. And I had hoped that it would not come to this again because protecting any of our kids, our adults, our citizens, and anybody that's in the city of Buffalo. When you're calling 911, when you're calling for a rescue squad, Unless there's some sort of mass emergency, there's no excuse for them to not get there within a quick amount of time. So just kudos to Mr. Nowakowski and you've got my 100% support if they're not up to snuff with what they're supposed to be doing in the city. Motion stands. Item number 72, letter requesting an update on Sinatra Development at Canal Side. Motion to send to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 73, Seeker Negative Declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Petitions item number 74, Special Use 574 Niagara. Motion to send item 74 through and including 79 to legislation and the city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Submission list, civil service, item number 1, appoint deputy commissioner. Motion to receive and file items 1 through 6. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Finance, item number 7, amendment to 2023-2024 annual action plan. Motion is to approve items 7 and 8. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Glumbeck. Item number nine, reported bids, mill and overlay, and pavement repairs. Motion is to table items nine and ten. Seconded by Majority Leader, Halton Pope. Just anyone who's watching, we had some conversation about this during our last meeting, council meetings, our caucus yesterday as well. Some other questions were raised today, so we wanted to make sure we had every i dotted, every t crossed before we approved these contracts. So they'll be sent back to committee for a little further discussion. Item number 11, 2024-2025 annual action plan. Motion is to receive and file items 11 through and including 17. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Community Development, item number 18, pilot agreement for 875 Lafayette. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Legislation, item number 19, Sidewalk Cafe, license 1543, aka 1545 Hurdle Avenue. Motion to approve items 19 and 20. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 21, Fooster, license 1080 East Lovejoy. Motion to recommit items 21 and 22. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 23, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 24, local law, intro number two, article 20-3, mayor's budget. Motion to approve items 24 through 26. Seconded by council member Halton Pope, who has the floor. Yes, Mr. Golumbik is in the negative on all three. Just for the record, our council member Golumbik in negative on items 24, 25, and 26. Mr. President, in the best interest of the city of Buffalo and in deliberation with my colleagues, taking into consideration the New York State budget, I would like to make the motion to approve with the following amendment to the following items. 24-1186, 24-1187, 24-1188, and 24-1189 from changing the date from April the 1st to April the 8th. Okay, motion is to approve as amended. Seconded by Council Member Rivera with Council Member Golombak in the negative. Item number 28, Advocating for the Law Department and City Courts of Applied Receivership. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 29, Zone and Map Amendment 249, Hickory. Motion to approve items 29, 30, 31, 32 with conditions. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. But Councilmember Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, 555 South Park is Adolph's Tavern. This was heard last week in committee. We did hear from two members who are adjacent to this area and As working for the council, as a council member, and as a staffer, and at brief time living for multiple years next to a pattern, I understand the sensitivity to restaurants in the adjacent neighborhood. But I have to treat everyone the same. And so there are going to be a series of conditions that will be in place on this permit. When I did speak with the applicant, they had said, well, generally we close at this. Neighbors need to just know when the patio closes so it's transparent so they can anticipate for when it does close and so that everyone adheres to conditions. I will file the conditions with the clerk. I'm just wrapping up a few more nuances with my staff and then reaching out to all parties there. One party won't be happy because I just didn't outright deny it, but the fact of the matter is I have to do what is right and follow the code and making sure that we can promote neighborhood harmony through conditions in the special use process. So we will be going and using those remedies within the green code and applying them. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Item number 33, property manager license. Motion to recommit items 33 and 34. Seconded by Council Member Gullinbeck. Item number 35, special use 1175 hurdle. Motion is to approve with the condition that the establishment closes at 11 PM daily and that there's licensed New York State security on site from Friday and Saturday from 7 PM to close. Seconded by Majority Leader Halton Pope. Item number 36, special use 247 Esser. Motion to approve 36 with conditions and approve 37. Seconded by Council Member Glumbach, who has the floor. Thank you. For item number 36, we'll get the conditions to the law department, but that will include a one year sunset clause. Also on item number 37, this is an application for a scrap processing facility at 267 Marilla. This site of a former, or a long time scrap processing facility. When this applicant came to me about looking to open this facility there, I had major, major concerns. I did not want the neighbors that were subjected to some of the stuff they were in the past. I was very adamant, I was very clear to them. There would be no approval of any license with any of that stuff taking place. I took the time, I went up and I visited their site in St. Catharines. I've learned more and more about the projects that we've come along. There's been a $9 million remediation of the land there. They've taken great strides to clean that land up, address any concerns of the neighbors. We are finalizing a community benefit agreement for that neighborhood. pertaining to hiring and other benefits to that neighborhood for cleanup and maintenance and things of that nature. So we are going to approve this today with a one year sunset to make sure that they are living up to their end of this agreement. And if they are not, then that license will be pulled. So but we can approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Kolenbeck. Resolutions, item number 80, calling on New York State to install a new road from Bailey Avenue to the Worthington Business Complex. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 81, direct law department to draft ordinance amendment for residency requirements. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Bollmer. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. This is, we'll be sending the results to civil service so we can talk more about it in committee. But I did just want to gloss over this. This is requesting a one year waiver for residency and And I've heard from departments who struggle to fill positions and find qualified applicants. We heard in our finance committee, some of our auditors were having difficulty finding auditors in the comptroller's office. And so this would be a tool in our toolbox to allow for us to attract top talent and fill positions. And so that's what we're looking at having the law department draft this one year waiver. Thank you. Item number 82, charting Buffalo's path to fiscal stability. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to finance. Second by Council Member Ferralotto. Item number 83, directing Corporation Council to draft the local law regarding fees and padlocking. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Rivera and Majority Leader of the floor. Yes, this local law that I would like to have drafted is going to deal with these illegal cannabis stores. In April, in the budget, the state allowed us to expand our enforcement process, but it requires a local law allowing us to go in and immediately padlock any illegal cannabis businesses, in addition to what we already do with fining through permits and inspection. And so I'm hopeful that once this law is written, written that I'll have full support of my colleagues. Thank you. Item number 84, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 84 through and including 89. Seconded by Councilwoman Epper. Item number 90, Commissioner Bates. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, July 30th, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, July 30th, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, July 30th, 2024 at 1 PM. And committee on community development will be Tuesday, July 30th, 2024 at 2 PM. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Majority leader. Yes, it is a bulk trash pickup for the Ellicott District. We literally just had it at the beginning of the month, but we start again July 28th. So if you forgot something, please get it out. Thank you. Also, in partnership with majority leader Crystal Peoples Stokes, my forever boss, we will be having a movie night on August the 14th in Johnny B. Wiley Stadium at 1100 Jefferson. Activities, resource vendors, etc. Beginning at 520 with the movie beginning at 6.30 PM, we will be watching Elemental. Also, in partnership with Majority Leader Peoples Stokes and my colleague, Mitch Nowakowski will be also hosting another event on August the 28th at the Central Terminal. Same time, that movie will be Wish. Thank you. Madam Clerk, you have something? And claims committee will be Wednesday, July 24th, 2024 at 1 PM. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to say the first thing is tomorrow noon in Niagara Square is the Disability Pride flag raising ceremony at noon. Please join us and Disability Pride Festival will be at Canal Side at 2 PM on Friday. So come out and support everyone in our communities. Thank you. Nothing else? Motion to adjourn. Motion is to adjourn. Second by Council Member Gumbach.