This item is open. This item is open. Mr. Chair, we did receive a document or a letter from our Corporation Council of Quebec stating that the recipient of the...
 NDC, the applicant, is, according to her advice, in conformance that the application is correct as to form. We did have a meeting in her office. We did raise certain concerns regarding the application. We asked her to note why the application failed.
 is correct for either approving or denying. And you have that document. All the council members have received it. Myself, along with Council Member Brian Bowman and Council Member Golombic were present at the meeting. Certainly, we raised the concerns about the application process. It has to be clear, transparent, and it has to be...
 Clear, so there's very little room for different interpretations of it. We are concerned about the process going forward, making sure that any RFAs that go out that are clear, transparent, and not open to interpretation. So we understand the need.
 to get the dollars out there to the business community to begin this programming. And I'm hopeful that by the time we come back from recess, that the process has already begun.
 The vetting process, the application process, and so that we can move it along as quickly as possible, because the goal was to get the money out to the business community and get the money in general, the ARP money out to those non-for-profits that are going to be administering those dollars.
 So it's kind of reluctant. I speak for myself with this approval. I certainly have concerns and I like to work with OSP and the law department regarding their RFA process going forward, making sure that it's more clear and transparent. So there isn't this ambiguity and people have more confidence in it as well. People that reached out to Council Member Golombik's.
 that they have confidence in this process as well thank you very much i i make a motion i don't know a motion is to approve but i'm sure second by councilman white who has a floor and thank you mr president and thank you majority leader for your efforts you and councilmember bowman um i know it's been a lot of extra work on you um we didn't expect it to code this long um but i do have a
 You know, and I guess, Council President, we've been trying to get our own attorney for a while, and this doesn't change it. This only enhances it. We've been waiting for an answer, and sometimes we get conflicting information. I can go back as far as surplus funds that we were given an opinion, and all of a sudden that opinion wasn't a good opinion.
 And so I always question these things. You know, sometimes you can't like the genie, put the genie back in the bottle. When you do something and it kind of goes against what we kind of felt was true, it makes us question other things. And so I do question this, but I'm going to go with my majority leader and what he's done, Council Member Bowman, as well as your input to have good faith
 I know council, the majority leader talked about this being disconnected from City Hall, as well as having a streamlined process that these dollars are targeted in our business corridors and I still want to see that happen and I hope that we can still see that happen that is targeted that these NDC will be working closely with the Community Development Association in my district so that these dollars go right to those businesses. And the other thing I want to make clear on.
 If these dollars are not spent in my district, that money comes back and stays in the university district. So it should not be where these dollars, if it's closed off and this program is stopped.
 that these dollars are ended up to what another Bray Miller that, oh, we didn't find people. So we're going to give it. No, I want to make certain that those funds that we designated per district stays in our district. That is if I can't get businesses, it should be going to my my curbs that I've asked for. And so, again, you know, this has been an elongated process. This council has been on the forefront, the forefront to move this money, because we know that
 When you drown, you're dead. This was American rescue money. It hasn't rescued anyone thus far. And some of those companies are still drowning. And I'm hoping that this is a lifeline to keep them afloat so that they can get back to what they were before the pandemic, as this money was supposed to be helping them to get back to. Thank you, Mr. President.
 And just a question for Corporation Council, because what the Council member said, I think we have the opportunity to amend to say, for instance, that the dollars that are spent that have been earmarked per district would remain with that district in some type of way if they are not able, because I think he makes a very good point.
 If we couldn't get out 500,000, what will be the difference with 3 million if that work isn't there? And I think that with the other groups it will. Could that be received on the floor as an amendment to the amendment? So can the council add an amendment to the amendment that would say the dollars for this item that are earmarked per district
 That we want to ensure in this item that if it cannot be spent for this, that they will work with the Council to ensure that it is spent in that district. Assistant Corporation Council, Hagen King. So the contract hasn't been finalized yet, so that would be something we would have to work with Osp about and with regard to the airp funds if it's not utilized by a certain time period it actually has to be
 to the federal, it has to be returned back to the U.S. government. Well, I'm not... So it doesn't stay with the district. Well, I'm not saying beyond the deadline, which has to be encumbered. I'm not saying beyond that, I understand, it goes to the federal government. But in between that time,
 I want to make certain that it's not closed off and that those dollars can be still be spent in the university district or whatever. Those logistics are something that have to be ironed out with OSP in terms of negotiating the specific. Well, why can't we just make the amendment to this? What we're doing right now? Why we have to go back to OSP. The dollars are already designated by district, the amounts.
 And so we're saying that we want that amount to stay in our districts. And if it's not used for the purpose intended as far as small businesses, it's still used within the framework of what the American Rescue Dollars were being submitted to us for. So it's nothing illegal. Let me get back to you on that for a second.
 So should we have held off on the motion until we got that part of it? Because well, you just raised it so I want to I mean we were going to vote for it. But I think that if there if this Council wants to make sure that is spent in their districts, I understand what your concern is. If your district if they're not able to find it, then it goes to be elected by somebody else's vote.
 I believe that we can add that amendment to both three and four, that any monies that have been
 promise for the districts, the distribution, that it will remain with that district. We do understand the deadline. That's not what we're saying to go past the deadline. I don't think that's what you're saying. No, I'm not. I think that amendment is fair. I think that amendment would pass muster. And I'd be surprised if that amendment didn't pass muster, but this document did.
 Thank you. So the, the amendment comes from. Yeah, I guess question for Corporation Council to follow up on Councilmember Wyatt's point. This is a, this is a request to enter into an agreement with on DC. So is that some details that could be ironed out before the full contract comes back to us.
 and then this council would have full approval or whether or not those details are included in that contract with NDC at that time. Right, so if you have any suggestions, you could work with OSP to give your input on what you think. Before we receive the full contract. Right, so you could work with OSP to give your opinions on what you think. So here is the suggested amendment. The dollars earmarked for individual districts,
 will remain with those districts as long as they are under the city's control. And then the details of what that means is worked out with the council. Is that fair? Mr. Chairman, I think you're going to the intent. That should be the intent. Exactly. The intent is that money will stay within respective districts. I think we...
 might be able to put it in. However, I also have concerns, any money that is not spent for any categories for that matter. There are a number of categories from health to
 first line arts, health equity, affordable housing. If the money is not spent by those organizations, I have to believe that that money then has, there has to be another amendment somewhere in the future as to how that money is going to be spent. Assuming that the money is not spent or for some reason, some organization pulls out of it
 then there has to be another amendment that comes before the common council as to how that money should be spent. So that is something that would happen. I think it would trigger another amendment automatically. However, with regards to the intent that money be spent in the districts, I agree fully. And I think the administration has agreed with us on that. So I
 put it in form of an amendment. I don't know how much weight it carries, but I would support it. I agree. It is the intent of it. I'm getting different. The money goes to NDC. At the end of the day, I think this council is being clear of our intent. And if anybody wants to play games with the intent, then bring on the games. But at the end of the day, it's clear what is being asked.
 make sure that we are not playing games with the money. If a million point eight is promised to Fillmore, a million point eight goes to Fillmore, period. And any other changes to this item, make this part of the amendment, any detailed changes to this item must come back to this council, all right? That's the total amendment with that last part. Caught it all? All right, we got the intent? Yes.
 Council member Bowman. Yeah, I think that's absolutely a fair request with regard to the businesses, the dollars going into our district. I'm hopeful that won't be the issue. I've heard from a lot of businesses already that are. How can I apply? Very interested in these dollars. And these are dollars for businesses in our neighborhood that are very hard to get and they are rare to come by. So I think we'll have a lot of applicants, but I think stating our intentions.
 clearly up front are important. And then just as to what majority leader was saying, how they're building up the ARP categories and the RFA process, there's lead caseworkers. So essentially,
 Um, workers from OSP or different departments are watching these categories to make sure that whoever is selected has the capacity to run the program and spend the dollars down before. We get anywhere close to the federal government, getting those dollars back. So I think that's the intention to watch it very closely. Um, but obviously the follow through is what's important. So thank you. Absolutely. So what we'd have to do because we, there's a motion on floor customer going back.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you all as well. I think that this is imperative that it goes into our districts. And I know I sort of started this brouhaha on Tuesday, and I'm still torn, to be quite honest with you. I'm not convinced 100%. I'm more...
 I'm more at 50-50 right now, to be quite honest with you. And the key was Mr. Mahaffey contacting my Black Rock Alliance and talking to them, spent well over an hour on the phone with them.
 and explained the intentions of OSP and the administration. I think that had these intentions been brought up a week ago, a month ago, three months ago, that it probably may have precluded the problems that arose on Tuesday. But I'm still...
 I've still been struggling with this vote because I can see both sides, you know, very, very well. I'm going to err on the side of voting for this so that the money can be released to our communities. I'm uncomfortable with it, though, to be quite honest with you. But I want these millions of dollars to be able to go to our smaller businesses that are in all of our districts, all of our business strips and try to help them. I was running a scam.
 Thank you, Council President. I agree with Council Member Wyatt with his intent in his discussion about the money staying in the districts, and your point to amend it is so, except for the 1.8 to Fillmore. Except to the 1.8? All right.
 All right, well, we can take a roll call vote on that because I think that he would go against the South. Councilman, you know, Council, you're on the floor. Thank you, we can make a deal. But just to move forward and also to kind of put a button on this, this money has been long and arduous to get out.
 And this money was not meant for the municipality to sit on to collect dust or interest. We need this money out on the street. And as we move forward, when we come back from recess, I want to start seeing actual contracts come to the committee because some of these moving items
 they're nice the words on a piece of paper until we start seeing contracts um with a lot of organizations this is just talk so we need to move forward and i can't stress enough that we we really need everybody on this in city hall to get this money out on the street thank you mr president council president i just wanted to ask either the majority leader or council member bowman
 Was there a time Franks? I know that when we talked about getting this money out, they talked about 60 days because people have been asking me just as they've been asking Councilmember Bowman, how do they apply? We have information that we're submitting out, but it's not how you apply for this money. It's basically information regarding about small business centers for businesses. But this particular pot of money, there's no information on as of yet. So what is the timetable? Did they talk about the timetable and getting that money out?
 Well, getting the guidelines on them, sorry. Yeah, I mean, there's still, I mean, this is an amendment that we made to allocate money at the last minute to nine respective districts. And that came as a result of the Bray Miller incident. Because of Bray Miller, we said, hey, let's allocate to each district. Okay.
 close to $400,000. So this came at the last minute. So those details are still gonna be worked. But our goal is to work with Public Works, continue to do what we're doing, to get the money out there, get it encumbered, go through the vetting process, the application process, whatever it is, we wanna move it along as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the other categories had their vetting process and application process. We have to do this now for the business districts.
 And so we'll work with, of course, with NDC, the Urban League and Beverly Gray to make sure that they provide whatever resources, whatever it.
 administrative help they can provide whatever technical help they can provide. We'd like to move it along as quickly I can, you know, I'm not going to tell you a certain date, because it hasn't worked for us till now. I don't want to tell you it's going to be 60 days and here we are a year out from last year and we're still
 working on getting money out. So I don't want to tell you right now that in 60 days or 90 days, you're going to see the money out there. When our experience have been to now, that it's taken more time. But our goal, as it always has been, is to get the money out there where it needs to get to. And we'll be focused on that. And Brian, myself, the administration and the council members, I'm sure when we get back in September, that'll be the first question we ask.
 is how's the process going along? How's the vetting? What's the application process? How many people have applied? Do you have a committee to vet these people? What, you know, who is part of that committee? Those are the kind of questions that we can ask like we did in the past.
 And I'm going to come to Councilman for a letter. Then Councilman Bowman, I would suggest a resolution that would ask them to report to us monthly of the process progress, and to also suggest a timeline. Yeah, because I think without having that sometime it just goes away so that that's what I was gonna go to. Good. Thank you. Councilman Fairlady. Same thing.
 So what we're going to have to do, and I'll make my comments, and we rescind the previous motion, then motion as amended. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion is now to approve as amended. As the stated amendment, I want to read into the, and that would be seconded by Council Member Bowman. I want to read into the record. Oh, no, this is attorney client. I can't read that. I will say this.
 I want to make this very plain that we have been informed by Corporation Council summary that the actions of OSP are legal. I am with Council Member Golombek. If it were not for the fact that this money has been sitting for almost two years, over two years, and I agree, and that the people on the street who need it most, a week could mean the closing of a business.
 And I want to make it plain, this council did not hold up these funds. This council has asked almost every month, when are we getting the amendments? We are here, I believe, and we've talked about this because of the money pending for Bray Miller.
 At the end of the day, though, our constituents are more important than the politics of this situation. And so we got to get it out to the street. Today, as I was driving here, I saw frontline workers with the vests on at one of the summer schools out there making sure that our corners are safe. They deserve to get their money and other people, not yet their money because they're taxpayers too. So at the end of the day,
 Not thrilled about it. I won't question what we've been given, but I will say if this had been a year and a half ago, we would have had much more time
 and maybe more money to move to the streets. I don't want to hold it up to September and then possibly hold it up to 24. So I look forward to your resolution and would like to join you on a resolution that would call the administration to the council for a monthly report in writing. Because we were told that we would get a date or timeline of when this would be moving,
 we still have so i don't have a whole lot of confidence that without babysitting this situation that we'll get this money out as quickly as is needed in our communities um it's been moved a second next item item number four request approval of arpa spending plan budget amendment number four motion to approve
 This motion is to approve as amended the same amendment that was in item number three. We'll carry over into item number four, which basically ensures that the monies, that any monies that are earmarked for a district would stay with that district. Just a second.
 I'm gonna bring this up. All right. Second by- Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Council Member- Just on the budget amendments, as you mentioned before, if we would have gotten this money out two years ago, many of the organizations that are calling us, pleading with us to fund them at the level that they were originally willing to pay
 They originally expected to get funded based on the amount of money they had set for each category. And unfortunately, years have gone by, we have used much of the ARP
 of funds to cover our budget shortfalls. As a result of that, we have had the cut or the administration, and I say the administration, has proposed to cut those agencies. That is why we want to get this money out the door.
 because every quarter that goes by, every year that goes by, there seems to be, and at least that's the pattern that we see, less money for these organizations. So this council, I don't want the blame to lay on the foot of this council. We have asked for two years now to release this money, to send the budget amendments. And I know those organizations are doing great work out in the community.
 And certainly those services are very important. At the same time, we have to deal with our budget shortfalls and the tough decisions we have to make here to keep the city operating, keep the services going forward. So it's a very difficult decision to reconcile those two things. But I'm certainly pleased that we're moving this money here today. And we're certainly somebody I don't know who was said we have to get it out of City Hall.
 and they used out of our control. I think it was Chris that might have said it. I might have said it a lot better than Joe. Probably Joe. We needed to get it out of City Hall and to where it needs to get to. So I'll give Joe or Chris the credit for that. But I'm certainly grateful to this Common Council and Council Member Bowman, who has worked
 tirelessly and Pedro, who has sat through many of the meetings and trying to push this thing along and very difficult times to the point there was a little bit of tension in trying to get this money out. But we're pleased today that it's getting out, but certainly not pleased of the cuts that had to be made.
 Thank you, Councilman White. As I know, Councilman Reboman was waiting. He's in that blind spot area. But I just wanted to say that we got a letter from TPG and...
 You know, they're concerned. And I agree with you. You know, we would have liked this money to be out a long time ago. And I am concerned about the transparency in the process because there's been so many iterations of this and of that.
 And I have an email that I sent, well, I received back on January 10th of 2023 that said about all the items that we were designated for university, that all these items will be taken care of. And I know I had a conversation with Council Member Bowman as he's interacted with the committee that these items will be taken care of. And I want to make certain.
 that these items are taken care of. And I just wanted to speak to each one of them because I want to read it into the record. I will provide it to the clerk to make sure that these items are being taken care of because these are the things that I shared with the people in my district that we were going to be able to get done. And then I have a final statement from the administration that we would have this in writing in a week and a half. This is from January 10 of 2023.
 And we've asked a couple of times for things in writing, and we've not gotten it. And I'm just scratching my head like, what is going on with the communication? Is it always that we have to pull teeth or we have to have it on the record? That's why I want to read this for the record, just in case.
 the paper gets lost or something, but Shoshone is going to be taken care of. That's good. I'm happy about that. The residents are happy. Curbs for Martha and Newberg, that was supposed to be taken care of spring construction season. University District has $100,000 allocated for striping Northrop.
 The other brick rolls will be coming out of BSA chip funds. McCarthy Park will be receiving 1.5 million, and Roosevelt Park will be receiving 1 million. Dartmouth Garden will be finalized. Gloria Parks will be getting gutters and new doors. Edward Saunders floor contractor will get finalized, and Martha Mitchell Community Center will be getting $1 million for broadband.
 These are important things. And so I'm had adding this to the record to ensure that it's been stated, and it's been told to us that these things for our districts will be included but this is for the university district so I'll be giving this to the clerk to make sure we add to the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and as regards to the ARP dollars. I think it is.
 So important at this moment that you know we get these dollars out to the community agencies get these dollars out to like Council Member why it's at all of our communities who have had projects promised to them and so we want to see those projects moving forward taking place, and it is unfortunate that the pot for these community agencies got smaller, and it's a very difficult decision to make.
 between community agencies who are doing great work and then you got to also balance the budget which could affect city services or put a further burden on our taxpayers if the bill the budget isn't balanced so um with the arp dollars the time is now to start getting these out so i'm hoping that the administration will continue working all through august and when we step into council meetings in september we're approving contracts and we're getting agencies the much needed dollars
 Thank you. Thank you for your work, sir. All right. Yes, sir. Second by Council Member White. Item number five, annual action plan amendment for special economic development. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Obviously, and I'm not going to beat this dead horse to death, but.
 This is probably the item that got us here and got us to make sure that we get millions more for our small businesses in our community. This is important to note that, and I want to say this, I want Bray Miller's to do well. I want every business who sticks their neck out there to do well.
 This was not a matter of one of a particular business. It was a matter of process. It was a matter of equity. It was a matter of making sure that those who did not have relationships that we built those relationships now so that other businesses would benefit. So it is my hope is my prayer.
 that Bray Miller succeeds. If in the chance they don't, they would be responsible for repaying this. And my hope is that every business, not just Bray Miller, but all of the businesses in our district that have suffered so much would be able to see a little light at the end of the tunnel. So thank you. Second. You get a second. I gave you a second. All right.
 Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Mitchell P. Nowakowski. We're adjourned.