And President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Council Member Everhart. Present. Council Member Ferraletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Majority Leader Halton Pope. Present. Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Okay, from the top please. Item number one, call for special session. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, discharge items 24-1028, 24-1029, 24-1196, 24-1198, 24-1237, 24-1255, and 24-1288 from finance. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number three, permission to enter into agreement 2024 citywide pavement markings. Motion to approve items three through and including seven. Seconded by Council Member Glombeck. Able number eight, certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Able number nine, fee waiver for River Rock Run. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Able number ten, trailblazing resolution for Mary Snail Davis. Motion to table. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 11, waiver for 50 at Commodore Perry Reunion. Motion to approve items 11 through and including 13. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 14, exploration into establishing a city of Buffalo EMS ambulance services. Motion to adopt the resolves and send the rest to community development. Seconded by Pro Tem Bowman. Council Member Goldenberg. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad that this item is in front of us and I'm glad that Mr. Nowakowski is posing the questions that he's asking because yesterday I had a situation in my district where a woman got in touch with me about an hour after they called 911. It took an additional hour to get the ambulance there. So there is a problem, I don't know if it's with AMR, I don't know if it's with 911, but there's no resident in the city of Buffalo that should have to sit there for two hours waiting for a rescue squad when their child is laying sick in front of them. So kudos to you all for doing this. Okay, majority leader. I want to echo my colleague's comments in the Ellicott District. At one of the annual Friday Night Lives, there was a patient who, if she didn't get care from somebody around her, would still be waiting two weeks later for an ambulance to arrive. That's unacceptable, so thank you. Okay, thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I understand the frustration. I think we've been through this, down this road before. However, I certainly will not say I'm going to have a quick knee jerk reaction to say, let's get rid of AMR. And for full disclosure, I do things for AMR. And so I'm not defending anyone because at the end of the day, a life is a life. However, I do think that When I think about how the city manages things and what the city does, I'm not so confident that I'm going to put my life in the hands of the city that can't get a lot of things done. Get it done right. And so to say we're going to jump up and create a new ambulance service because the county's done it i don't know why i think that we need to have conversations with amr i think that there was supposed to be an emergency board that met every month to have we had conversations with the board say has there been discussion about the problems have we talked about rectifying it or did we just say let's just throw the baby out with the bath water and start a new agency i certainly don't agree with that but Whatever is best for the residents, whatever is going to give us the best return. However, I do think we have this body that was supposed to be meeting every quarter or every month. I don't know if we have the minutes for those meetings. But I would like to get to the bottom of it, and it hasn't affected my district, and I'm not going to talk about anybody else's. However, I would like to know that they're producing or they're doing what needs to be done, but this board was supposed to be meeting that we've been told about. And so a lot of those things should have been addressed with the board. So I'm hopeful that before we go there that we would look into those meetings with the board. Have there been conversations? Have there been discussions? How are we looking to rectify those problems? Because we've been down this path before. I think AMR has shown to be a good sponsor, a good citizen. We've heard that their numbers were increasing and now this is a stretch where it's a problem, maybe a problem. I don't know, I don't have the information from you, I just hear what people are saying individually. But certainly a life is a life and we want to make certain that lives aren't in jeopardy. So for us to jump from. they're missing or they're creating a problem because people are not coming on time to the city should start looking at their own ambulance service. I wouldn't jump that far that quickly. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Ferraletto. Thank you. I'm happy that this is something that the council's looking into. There was a woman who contacted my office earlier this week. Her mother had a heart attack. She called 911 several times, and according to her, she spoke with the ambulance company several times, and it took five hours to get an ambulance after her mother had a heart attack. Assuming all of that is true, that's certainly unacceptable and anything that this body could do to explore any option I think is an important thing to do. Thank you. Thank you. As the sponsor of the resolution, I would tell you there's nothing knee jerk about it. The University District Council member just mentioned that we've been down this path before, which is a prerequisite. into determining the fact that it's not a knee-jerk reaction. Whether it's the current provider or the previous provider, we've had these issues in the past. I've called attention to them in the past, going back almost a decade. And when it comes to putting my hands or my life or the life of a loved one in the hands of someone in the Buffalo Fire Department where this would maybe be embedded, I have complete and full confidence in the men and women of that department to take care of my loved ones. So I think it absolutely warrants investigating, taking a look at the feasibility of it. Obviously there would be a cost to it, but I don't know how that would bear out long term if it becomes a revenue generator, things of that nature. So I think at the very least we can take a look at it. So thank you. Councilmember Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. Council President. I certainly would want information from AMR. One is the fact that we're making allegations and accusations based on constituents, incidents that may occur. We would like for them to come in and talk to those specific incidents, Why the response time took so long, were they in service, were they in a hospital? Because those incidents can occur no matter who is operating our emergency services. Because you can be tied up in calls, you could be tied up in hospitals. And that has been our experience with them when they've come before us previously, where they explain, here are the records of when we got the call, how long it took us to respond, or why we didn't respond. So I would like for them to come in, and there's nothing better than to have that documentation in front of us. And if, in fact, that what we're saying is true, then certainly we have a concern with that. And we need to look at other alternatives. But I'd like for them to come in and explain in details specific incidences that have occurred. Where they have been late getting to a call. Especially emergency calls where it's a matter of life and death because they do triage the calls. Not all the calls are level three where there are lights and sirens and getting to them. But there are calls like those that broken bones, accidents, where they will respond as quickly as they possibly can, but if they are failing, in that area and then we need to consider other alternatives, whether it's a different service or even having the fire department, whether they have the capacity to do it or There's a lot to have, a lot of discussions to be had whether or not they have the capacity. And certainly that's something that we can entertain. But I'd like for them to come in and speak specifically to those incidents like the one Farrell-Leto, Council Member Farrell-Leto mentioned, five hours. We want them to explain how that happens. Thank you very much. Yeah, and just anyone who's watching, they will be in on September 10th in our committee meetings. Councilmember Mielkowski filed that letter and it will be in on September 10th. And to my point, I think we can do things concurrently. I think we can have a conversation with them while taking a look at what it would the feasibility of us doing it ourselves would be, but majority leader. Council President, I was just going to clarify that AMR will be before the council on September the 10th for a public hearing. And at the same time, I do agree, I'd like to at least explore what it would be. And I don't believe this resolution is making this mandatory, but rather just a research opportunity to determine whether or not this is something the city can or cannot afford. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. In addition, I hope that we're going to have that emergency board or the board that governs AMR. I'm hopeful that they've been meeting because I think if they haven't been meeting then that's part of the problem. Because there should have been meetings, that information should have been provided. And if we haven't got that, that's part of the problem. So again, I know that you say it's not a knee jerk reaction, but if we're not looking at the systems that we have in place and seeing how they may not be working, that's the problem because the last time we had this conversation, they hadn't met in years. And so are we not meeting again and we have these type of problems coming? So I hope that we can explore it and certainly the priority is to save a life. It's certainly not to just do what I want to do or do what anyone wants to do. It's to make certain that whatever we put forth is beneficial in saving the lives of residents when they're in their time of need. So that's where I'm at, thank you. councilwoman everhart thank you council president i just have a question um to my colleagues point um who is running those meetings or who was responsible to be running those meetings i think that's something we're going to have to find out on that september 10th date i'm sure amr would be aware of anything going on with the emergency medical services board so i think that's probably the appropriate time we can ask them what's going on awesome thank you yeah All right, next item. Item number 15, amendment number five to the American Rescue Plan. Motion to approve items 15 through and including 21. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Councilmember Gumbel back at the floor. I'm in the negative on items 20 and 21. I know I'm not on the committee, but I sort of followed along on social media, what was being said at these meetings and I don't like, it seems like this company keeps skirting certain rules. And I'm unhappy with that, so I'm in the negative on both of them. councilmember wyatt thank you and i also watched it on social media and um i i can appreciate that we want to get this work done but i want i would hope that the commissioner would think it's important enough that there should be some fine level they should not get away with just a hand slap That's important to me. And so I would be in a negative if there was no fine administered to this company because we've heard this over and over again. They've skirted it before, they continue to do it. So I think that this time we have to hit them in the pocket and let them know that we're not going to tolerate it. because it's too important to the city and to the residents of the city that we go forward with this without just slapping them on the hand. This is their first willful. Who's to say there may not be a second, but I'm hopeful that the commissioner, as I stated before to him, there should be some level of fine towards this company. Thank you. And Council Member White, just for clarity, you're not in the negative though? Okay, next item. Motion to adjourn. Sorry, motion to revisit item number 10. Motion to revisit item number 10, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Motion to resend the previous motion. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Motion to send a community development. Seconded by President Pro Tem Bowman. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Madam Clerk.