2, 1. Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Fontana. Present. Councilmember Franzen. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. Glad to be back. Forum present. That's fair for the play. That was aggressive. I've been playing for the majors. United States, Southern America, Mississippi, and Kansas. and indivisible with the liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, Reverend Al Warner, is back in the state and the city. He will come at this time. As Mr. Wyatt said, glad to be back. Oh my word, and it's the same cast of characters we left. I'm sure that all of you have been as sobered as I have over the events in Texas, Louisiana, and now what's heading towards Florida. And I can assure you there are colleagues just like you in every one of those cities that aren't having a business as usual time. Citizens are full of panic and fear and all of the emotions that are happening. I was, as many of you were, sure, as we watched the coverage, I was amazed at how often God was invited into Christ. You know, like over and over and over again. Some of the best songs were sung by those who have little left to be thankful for in the physical, and yet their spirit was remarkably strong. 2 Corinthians 1, starting in verse 3, says, Praise be to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the God of all comforts. who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves have received from God. For just as the sufferings of Christ flow over into our lives, so also through Christ our comforts overflow. What Paul is saying in those few verses is, God gives things to us so that we can give them unto others. The best counsel comes from those who suffered much, and this city has certainly suffered much, But I was so thrilled the other day on the steps of City Hall to see this council and the mayor respond. And Mr. Council President, when you said, we're the city of good neighbors but the neighborhood's bigger than we thought. The neighborhood can go clear down into Texas and Florida because it's bigger. And Jesus said, love God first and then love neighbor. And neighbor can be extended. So today I want to pray for those in the neighborhood. This city is sending things to them and now with Florida hitting, there's so much happening. I want to invite God to go and touch lives of people in those cities today. Father, thank you that you are the God of all comfort. And Lord, I saw it so plain with those that were interviewed on television networks over the last several days. I thank you, Father, that in their time of loss, they were looking to you as the rock that never moves, the rock that does not shift. Thank you, Father, that their faith stood strong in the midst of wind and storm. We lift up those now rebuilding in Texas, in Louisiana, we think especially in Houston and the smaller cities nearby and now Florida and the Caribbean as this storm is coming in like crazy this week. Lord, you know the level of fear that escalates. I pray for those legislators that are in each of those districts, some of them seeking wisdom far beyond anything in the natural. Lord, we ask that you give it to them. And Lord, even now, that you speak to the storm. Thank you, Father, that you are the God who, as we pray today in Buffalo, New York, can impact other states and nations. We extend the Good Neighbor Mantle from here to wherever it's needed most. And we want to be a city that responds where there's need that calls us. Thank you, Father, for blessing now this session, these times and deliberations with your presence in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Council Chaplain. Council Members, any memorials? Councilmember Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. We lost Don Olson over the past summer. He had been ill for quite some time, a Navy veteran. I can't remember if he was a Vietnam veteran or a Vietnam era veteran, but he has left behind a family in the Riverside section. I think he's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He's been in the Army for a long time. He Helen Koba passed away. I grew up with her kids in the neighborhood. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her children as well. Henry Hawkins passed away. The man was active in the 21st Ward Independence Day Association. He lives behind a wife and children. James Bryant from the NFTA passed away. I knew him for many, many years. He was a very, very good friend of Supreme Court Justice Eugene Fahey, but he leaves behind his family members. And just recently, Diana LaBarba passed away, very active at my senior center. One of the younger seniors was utterly and completely shocking. Marie Utzig, who used to run the Meals on Wheels program in the North District for Northwest Buffalo. She's going to be missed by her children. We also lost Henry J. Hank Sontag, Chester Korda, Gary Knorr. Daryl Monette, Paul Plump, and Muriel Murany. I'd like to just offer our condolences to each and every one of those families. Thank you, Councilmember. Any other Councilmember? Hearing none, we always remember our... service men and women and civilians who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting. And of course, as the chaplain said, to those who have transitioned from the terrible tragedy in Texas, we pause for a moment of silence. A couple of things before We begin our regular session. We are honored to have with us, and I'm glad to have him on the other side of the bench, City Court Judge Hanna, who is here to address us concerning actually... you're really not here to address us concerning what they told you to we the council asked you to come today to actually recognize you and they were afraid that if they told you you would decline so we wanted to recognize you if you will come down judge and the uh we'll have um majority leader and president pro temp um and this is from all of us uh on the council All of the work and all of the work that you have done on the court, especially when it comes to the new court that you are now presenting. presiding over. And Buffalo was so pleased to see you on CNN and so pleased that when you now Google court and you Google I think it's opiate, your name is the first that comes up in the city of Buffalo. And so the staff wanted to surprise you with this, so this is why they brought you in like they did. Let me give it over to my top. Thank you. I'd like to commend you as well. I had the good fortune of sitting in in his chambers and listen to him rule and make decisions that impact the lives of many people. And I know that when he makes decisions, he's the fair arbiter of all the decisions, and he has great temperament on the bench. I want to commend you as well. This is a surprise to me today as well. Thank you. I just want to thank you and commend you for your commitment to the area. Obviously, the work you're doing there is hopefully giving some people some second chances. Obviously, it's impacting the people who've suffered through some of those circumstances. It impacts so many people that all of us know, people throughout the city above. So I want to thank you for everything you're doing. Thank you. I am surprised. And to the Council President and to the other members of this fine body, but most important to my brothers and sisters in Christ, good afternoon. I am surprised and as the council president said, I am a humble servant, so I probably would have gracefully declined any recognition. But again, I'm here just because I want to help people. I believe we're putting our positions, and a good friend of mine who's standing to my right said, we don't deserve to be in these positions if we're not here to help folks. And that's the only reason why we're here. We have to lift as we climb. I'm honored to be in this hall room. I believe Councilmember Franczak remembers when I used to be a staff member here, you know. And this brings back fond memories. I hate to say it, but when you get my age, I can say it was like 20, 25 years ago. And I say that in jest, but in reality, I really learned a lot when I was working on the council staff here. I didn't even know how to tie a tie to our first guy in the City of Buffalo Council staff. and just growing and surrounding yourself around good people. And as he would say, as iron sharpens iron, so too does men sharpen men. And then standing around these good people in the council, they helped me blossom in my career. So again, I would just thank you for everything that you've done. I commend you for all the hard effort and the tireless efforts you do on behalf of the citizens of this great city. And I'm just a byproduct of what you've done. I'm a fruit of your labor. All the hard work that you've done I try to extend it by helping other people. Again, thank you. I'm very surprised and even though I'm speechless, but you can't find an attorney that can't find a mic and don't like to talk. But again, I commend you for everything you do. I'm grateful for all the hard work that you do in our city and I'm truly honored for this presentation. And it's good to be on this side of the bench. It's not on the other side of the bench. I think. Oh, no. We've got one more thing to do. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on July 25, 2017 are approved. All of the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to object as you get to those items if you have not had full time to read them. from the top item one interim appointment for Commissioner of Fire motion to receive and file items one and two okay I'm sorry my computer went out second by mr. Frank councilmember Franza I'm three men sale 203 court motion is sent to CD second by council member Golan bit I'm for designate developer 57 Howard motion to approve Nope. Is that the... I'm sorry, motion to send the... Item 4? Yep. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 5, report of sale 2367 Bailey. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item 6, easement for 245 Military. Motion to approve. second by councilman glombeck I do seven report of sale 35 Howard motion to send to CD second by president photo I'm a precinct sale of 307 Chelsea place motion to approve sitting by president protein I am nine shades lease motion to send finance second by customer one item 10 permission of men environmental services contract to approve items 10 and 11 and my customer from 10 and 12 appoint assistant for external affairs motion receiving file items 12 through 14 my customer friends are under 15 controllers estimate and report motion to send the finance to my customer number I'm 16 a point assistant auditor motion to send civil service so my customer friends at Public Works Department item 17 notification cereals motion to receive and file I'm gonna buy a customer for a little by making changing contract motion to approve items 18 through 37 so my customer one bit item 38 297 Babcock encroachment right away motion is sent to CD so my customer in front and item 39 445 Rhode Island encroachment motion to approve items 39 40 and 41 so my customer go under I know 42 drug acid forfeiture wire transfers motion to receive and file so my customer friends item 43 permission accept donations Motion to approve items 43. What's your numbers? We're on item 43, is that correct? Yes. Motion is to approve. Okay. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 44, permission to accept 16, 17, and 17, 18 reimbursements, law enforcement partners. Motion is to approve that as well. Second by Council Member White. Item 45, permission to accept reimbursement funding for DOJ single source vendor. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item 46, appoint police officer. Motion to send the civil service items 46 through 49, through 50. 50? 50? second by president protein from the corporation council item 51 Ryan Kenyon versus city of Buffalo motion to approve second by council member Aaron left permissions in permits and inspections item 52 food store license 365 Auburn motion is sent to ledge items 52 through 54 say my customer friends item 55 food store license 1036 East Ferry motion to approve with conditions in my customer friends item 56 food store license 1069 Eastbury motion is sent alleged sitting by a customer boy under 57 food store license 1148 Eastbury motion to approve with conditions second by Councilman of Columbia and 58 food store license 478 Elmwood Avenue motion to send alleged items 58 through 60 second by council member white item 61 food store license 21 16 fillmore motion to approve with conditions item 61 and 62. second by councilman fontana item 63 food store license 584 ontario motion to approve second by customer fraser Item 64, food store license 2336 Seneca Street. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Learfield. Item 65, food store license 1065 Tonawanda. Motion to approve. Second by President Prochek. Item 66, mobile food truck 151 Fargo. Motion to send to ledge. Item 66 through and including 70. second by council member glumman item 71 secondhand dealer 85 grant street motion to approve item 71 and 72 second by councilmember Fontana item 73 sidewalk cafe garage cafe and lounge 1127 hurdle Avenue motion to send to legislation sitting back on somewhere for a little I'm 74 sidewalk cafe new moon cafe 1685 hurdle Avenue motion to approve item 74 through 78 SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRANZEL. ITEM 79, USED CAR DEALER, 830. NO, I NEED TO GO BACK. I'M SORRY. 79 IS NOT IN APPROVAL. THIS NEEDS TO GO TO COMMITTEE. 79 IS STILL AGE. 77. SO IT'S 79 WEST CHIPAWAH, I'M SORRY. 77 IS UNMARKED. RIGHT. SO WE APPROVE UP TO 76, AND THEN 77 WE CAN SEND TO COMMITTEE. SEND 77 TO COMMITTEE. MOTION HAS BEEN... amended as stated second by Councilmember Friend Item 78 used car dealer 324 Elmwood motion to approve second by Councilmember Freelon Item 79 used car dealer 835 Sycamore motion to send the legislation second by Councilmember White Item 80 position allocation maintenance Motion to send civil service. That's what my councilman wants to hear. Administration and finance. Item 81, purchase, auction, sale of scrap vehicles. Motion to approve items 81 and 82 and 83. I'm just going to put my present vote down. Item 84, purchase of three vehicles for parking enforcement. Motion to approve items 84... through 87 second by president Broto item 88 liquor license applications motion to receive and file items 88 through 91 second by council member Freelon item 92 appoint legislative aide motion to adopt item 92 and 93 second by council member Wyatt I have 94 points in your legislative assistant to motion to adopt items 93 and 94 95 96 second by no 95 95 yep second by councilman go on that and a 96 notice of appointment seasonal motion to receive and file so my councilman go on better 97 notes of points temporary provisional permanent motion to send civil service second by councilman over miscellaneous items item 98 certification of planning board major site plan motion to receive and file items 98 through 100 my customer friends petitions item 101 special use permit 1000 Furman Boulevard Motion to send the ledge and city planning board items 101 through 104. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 105, special use permit 2337 Main Street. motion is sent to ledge City Planning Board and Corporation Council and my council member friends and 106 use 185 Allen for restaurant and outdoor dining motion since the ledge and City Planning Board my customer friends item 107 plan due to development 240 Kensington motion is sent to ledge City Planning Board and Corporation Council my customer for a live item 108 request verse Security cameras, Crescent, Medina. Motion to send to CD, City Planning Board, and Police Oversight. Second by Council Member White. Resolutions, item 109, bond resolution, Shoshone Pool Restoration. Motion to approve items 109 to 115. Second by Council Member Fraser. Item 116, fee waiver for ice time for Hassox Heroes. Motion to approve. I don't know about Council Member Franzen. Item 117, utilizing council chairs for city board and agency public meetings. Motion to adopt. I'm sorry. Can you just give me two seconds? Council Member, can you speak to this one? This is yours, I believe. Or the city meeting. Oh, you don't know where I'm talking? Okay. I don't need to speak on it, but... I'm trying to understand it before I... What we're looking for is... I've had groups that have approached me to say that rather than having the board meetings, whether it's planning or zoning meeting in room... 1201 or whatever that room is, 901, that they thought that after having met here for a couple of bigger meetings, it would be more conducive to meet here on a regular basis. I'm supportive of that. I think that it would be better to show off our chambers rather than those little tiny small rooms that are unbelievably hot and somewhat unbearable. So that's simply calling for us to do so. Thank you. Yeah, so the only, I mean I have several concerns about it. If we could send it to the committee to kind of talk about it. And then we can talk about the concerns I have and the maintenance of the room and the damage that has been going on. Because we've had meetings here, no one is being responsible for cleaning back up the room. We have to utilize staff and then there's been equipment damage, the reason we had to replace their cameras. Because we rented it, not rented it, loaned it out to an agency that insisted on unplugging the cameras and then when they plugged them in, they broke the pins and we had some disconcern. So if we could send that to the committee. That's fine. Thank you, sir. So send it to whatever committee you want to. Legislation. Legislation. Second by Council Member White. Item 119, waiver of special event fees for Sportsman's Americana Music Foundation. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franze. Item 119, appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 119 and 120. Second by Councilmember Peraletto. Item 121, fee waiver resolution for 2017 youth basketball pop-up clinic. Motion to approve items 121 through 126. Second by Councilmember Franze. Item 127, attorney access. motion to send to legislation so my customer go on I'm 128 Dewey bridge motion to approve items 128 through 130 so my councilmember the long bit item 131 legislative a motion to adopt and my console avoid I don't want 32 budget and personnel amendment assessment motion to approve saying my customer boy I want you to share me can we revisit item number three Which number? Number 3. Motion is to revisit item number 3, seconded by Council Member Farnton. I believe the initial motion was to approve? Yes. I think, I'm not sure if the Council Member had asked that it go to CD. 203 COIP. That was right. Is it marked correctly? I just want to go back and make sure it's marked correctly. Sale of 203 COIP. Yes. Yes. What would you like done with that? No, that was fine. Motion to approve? Mm-hmm. Motion stands to approve. Yeah. This is a next-door lot. Right. I said that. No, no, no, no, no. Incorrect. What was sent to CD was number 4. Yes. It was approved. It was approved. It was approved. Yes. Correct? Yes. Okay. Thank you for clarification. We want to get it right before we leave the chambers. It's better to go back and get it right today. Thank you. I appreciate it. Item 133, budget personnel amendment, building inspector. Are we on 137? 133. These are the late files you're going through? Not yet. 133. You know, we've been gone a month, so it's a little rusty here. We're coming back, though. Okay. 133, budget and personnel amendment, building inspector. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. 134, commissioner Deeds, public duties. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Gallamon. 135, request for aerial blazing science. Motion to approve. say goodbye council member why 136 commissioner of deeds motion to does Oh, I'm sorry. OK. Let me say goodbye to Councilmember Wyatt. And is that who's speakers who has the floor? Yes. Thank you, sir. I'm speaking on item number 135 regarding the trailblazing sign for Mr. Alvin Roberts, who is affectionately known as the mayor of Stockbridge. I'm really honored to put forth this trailblazing sign on this gentleman. It was unfortunate he passed about a month ago. I saw him. I was one of the neighbors trying to cut some trees down, and Mr. Roberts came out as he normally does on his street. When he sees people, he wants to know who it is. But he was a wonderful man, someone who really represents what a community-minded person is about, someone that just doesn't care about themselves, but really cares about the neighborhood. So this is our second trailblazing sign that we're going to be putting up at a park, because he loved baseball. He taught Little League baseball to our youngsters. And I think that's, again, a trait in an individual that really calls for us to really recognize them and hope that others will recognize them because they mean well. And we need more people who are mentors, who are mentors on purpose, not for a title, but that they care. And he was one of those people. So I'm honored to recognize him and do this trailblazing sign. I just wanted to make sure I made my marks. Did you say you were out cutting trees? I was out cutting some trees. Did you get permission from Council Member Fontana? No, I learned from the best, so I just followed him. Is that a picture of trees? Here's the sheriff of cutting trees and grass, buddy. Good job. item 137 councilmember wing or excused from meeting motion to adopt second by president proton and 138 fee waiver for NICYO funk fest motion to approve second by councilman friends I'm 139 support government call charlotteville provisions motion to adopt so my customer present and 140 Commission study on traffic safety motion to send the CD say my customer wife and that's the committee's the floor Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to speak on this item. I know I brought it forth and we had a number of meetings regarding the traffic and the dangerous streets that we have in the city of Buffalo. I'm going to continue to push this because I think that is so important. You continue to hear more and more about these hit and runs. And my focus is just not on red light cameras, but how do we improve the safety in our city. We continue to have these issues and I don't think we can be silent about it. I think we have to take action. I would like to see red light cameras in certain areas of certain intersections so that we can improve safety, but also doing something on our side streets. I just talked to a resident today who spoke about people who cut from the main thoroughfare and drive down their street, which is a on a residential street 50 miles an hour. We hear this over and over and over again, but we're not taking action to address it. If we don't change the behavior of drivers in our city, we'll just create and turn a blind eye to the dangerous atmosphere that's been created. I think we have to change people's cultures. When you drive down the streets in Kenmore and East Amherst, they have safety mechanisms. They have police patrolling them. Unfortunately we can't afford to have police on every street, but we do have to take some action. So the actions that I'm going to be putting forth are those that I heard from the people who came to our public hearings that we've been watching on Public Access about the dangerous streets. This is not something that we can just go to sleep on. If we don't take action, we'll just allow people to think that it's okay. Red light cameras, people keep talking about it being a money grab. Well, it can't be a money grab if you don't go through the red light. So those are things that are just common sense that I think we have to take up and address because the people have been telling us over and over again, my block club at least, has been telling me about the dangerous streets. We have to take some action. We can't be silent. We can't continue to allow people to be hit and run and no one's being charged. We have to take some type of efforts to make our streets safer. So I'm going to keep pushing this. I hope that my colleagues will see and hear from their constituents about the necessity of this. Again, when this was proposed some years ago, people felt it was a money grab because the city didn't have any money. Well, we're not desperate for money. We can use all the money we can get. But certainly this is not about a money grab. This is about public safety, pure and simple. So for anyone to put anything otherwise is just not true. Anyone that knows me knows that I'm not going to be looking for getting money without making sure that the people that we represent are treated fairly and made a safe environment in their communities. And when you hear over and over again people feeling unsafe, their children unsafe, seniors are unsafe on our streets, we have to take some type of action. We just can't be silent. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, September 12th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, September 12th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, September 12th, 2 p.m. Special Committee on Legislation, tonight, Tuesday, September 5th, at 530 p.m. All right. Any other announcements? Hearing none, Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. We have no committee meetings. We'll probably get all that next week or two weeks from now.