Majority Leader, are we ready? All right. Countdown. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golumbak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyeth. Here. Quorum is present. We stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag,
 the United States of America, and to the Republic of America, which it stands, our nation, under God, indivisible, with the will of the universe, for all. Our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Today, Tuesday, September 6th, is Red Letter Day. On the count of three. Better? There you go. So today's a Red Letter Day for citizens all over the city of Buffalo.
 Not a red letter day because we're back in session, but because excited students and relieved parents got to say goodbye to kids today. And as that happens and as we come to learning opportunities post-COVID, this becomes an incredibly important time, I believe, for us to see students.
 our educational system be safe, productive, healthy, and producing students that are able to learn and progress. No more important treasure to the city, not Lake Erie and fresh water, not jobs than our own children.
 So I know some of you were at school this morning, some of you to drop kids, some of you because they're in your district. I got a chance to speak at the opening ceremony of a private school this morning. I was the keynote speaker and what an opportunity to be able to see kids excited about being together with one another, with teachers and to learn. But the contrast is, as each of you know, September is National Suicide Prevention Month.
 So you've got the contrast of excited students and yet also kids that take their own lives tragically. I doubt if there's anybody in the chambers that hasn't been impacted by that. Debbie and I certainly have. Psalm 127.3, I've used it before. Sons are a heritage from the Lord. Children, a reward from him.
 These are our treasures. Nelson Mandela said education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world. Let me give it to you again. Education, the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.
 So I want to pray today, protection over our kids as they start back, students as they start back at every level, pre-K, K, 1 through 12, university, all the way through. Protection on our city, protection on our educational institutions, protections on those treasures of children, and also that this suicide that is up somewhere between 250 and 300 percent during the pandemic
 that kids will start to feel that their lives matter, that they are valuable. And I believe they're valuable to God and to us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for...
 Excitement that comes with school coming back into session today. Father, I remember what it was like for us and now as grandkids are starting into that sequence. And everyone here has a vested interest in our kids getting a quality education. So, Lord, I pray guard our schools, guard our schools.
 from evil intent, from anything trying to come against the next generation and the call on their young lives. I pray especially now that there'd be a sense of value and worth in
 that you instill inside them and turn back the epidemic of suicide. Especially, we joined with many that will be praying and speaking to this issue in September. And we ask, Father, that you would do the part that only you can do. But we,
 in the council and we in the city would do the part we're meant to do in making our kids feel valued and valuable. Lord, thank you for the goodness and as Ezekiel was commanded to do, we prophesy life, life, life in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members memorial starting with council member Fairleaf.
 Thank you. I would like to recognize Tom Smith, who worked for the Buffalo Sewer Authority. He was an employee of the city, I think going back to Mayor Macielo's, when Mayor Macielo was mayor, he's worked, I know he worked for the mayor of the state senate.
 and continued his path. He was just an absolute great person. He was very kind. He helped so many people, and he just had a gift of finding common ground and getting things done. And working in government to be able to get things done is so important, and he seemed to do that very
 effortlessly and seamlessly. So he will certainly be sorely missed by a lot of people in this building, especially his wife, Jessica, who's worked here for 15 years. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Skim?
 Thank you, Council President, to follow up on the passing of Tom Smith. Tom had a deep love for the city of Buffalo and spent his professional life trying to improve it for everyone that lived here. He helped countless people along the way. And in addition to his two boys, that'll be his legacy. You know, far too often, I think we come across people and maybe in our line of work, it's
 occupational hazard that we dissect things people are saying looking for an ulterior motive but you never had to worry about that with Tom. He was always upfront and honest regardless of the situation and it's a characteristic that's found far too seldom in people and it's one that I will greatly miss that and his tremendous one-liners. He's going to be as Council Member Farrell mentioned here
 terribly missed by his his wife jesse and his sons jack andrew along with a countless number of friends absolutely thank you mr president i too would like to remember tom smith today um
 just let my colleague know from the Delaware district. He actually got a start under Jimmy Griffin. I think that it was as a part-time laborer in one of the authorities, but he always told me that he's worked through three mayors of the city of Buffalo. But Tom,
 I guess just the way to say that he was a good guy. I worked intimately with him for the 20 past years when he worked with the city of Buffalo, Mayor Byron Brown, and I knew him for about 10 years before that, not on a real personal level, but enough to say, hey, hi, how are you? And always thinking that he was a good guy. When
 I began to work with him intimately in city government. It really proved that he was a good guy because he, whenever I called him, whenever I had a problem, he was always there to help. And I appreciated that very, very much because we know it gets frustrating sometimes when we call a department. We'll get to it. We'll get to it. Well, I knew that if I called Tom Smith, that something would get done there. And I used to think that I was being treated specially.
 And then I found out I wasn't and I was disappointed because he was a good guy. I was actually in Canada on vacation when I found out what happened. Sandy from my office called me. And as it happened, I was on my way to St. Patrick's Basilica in Montreal, which is the
 uh, uh, the home parish of Irish Canadians. And I thought how appropriate it was because Tom didn't wear his Irishness on his sleeve, but he was an Irishman. And I thought, I said, you know what? I always go there and I like candles for Irish family, friends, et cetera, that have passed away or that are in need of prayers, uh, during the previous year. And it'd been three years since I was there. And I thought, well, how appropriate for,
 for Tom Smith, Irishman, to have a candle lit for him in St. Patrick's Basilica up in Montreal. Now if I find out that his family came from Canada, you know, to America, that'll be really really interesting. I'm gonna have to talk to his brother Denny about that. But my condolences to his wife Jessie and his children Jack and Drew. Tom is going to be sorely missed by family, friends, and you know people that he touched even in the most minute ways.
 Councilman Winkle. Thank you, Council President. When I had heard how Mayor Brown and his wife took the news of Tom's passing, what really resonated with me was Michelle Brown's response, which was he was family.
 And that touched me. And just to hear all of my colleagues talk about Tom, I've only had a couple encounters with him. But I like the way, you know, Councilmember Golombik put it. He was a good guy. You can just feel that aura from him. He had a great spirit.
 I would also like to ask the city of Buffalo to keep in your prayers and express condolences to the family of Deacon Calvin William Wilkins of First Calvary Baptist Church here in the city of Buffalo. He was a resident of the Madison District. I have been knowing Deacon Wilkins, I can probably say the majority of my life as my father and I would go to various residents homes
 and fix their lawnmowers and snowblowers. Deacon Wilkins was one of our regulars. Not that my father had to keep repairing the same things, we had other things to fix. And he had a smile that was out of this world. You felt warm and welcome. He had a very humble spirit and he was always encouraging and motivating. To me personally, when I first started working,
 playing the piano 33 years ago now, he was an encourager then. Then when I accepted my call into the ministry, he was an encourager then. Then when I became pastor of Antioch Baptist Church,
 He let his niece, who I discovered was his niece, not just as recently, he let his niece know that when she joined Antioch Baptist Church that you got a good pastor. So he was just always, and this was him in his later stages with dementia, and he remembered me.
 And I just want the city of Buffalo to remember his life and his legacy and the love that he gave and the laughter that he shared. Deacon Calvin William Wilkins. Thank you. Council Member White.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the city of Buffalo to keep in their prayers the mother of Lieutenant Darren Exum, who passed about a week or so ago. I happened to be able to attend the service, and it was a wonderful home going. She was married to her husband 52 years. And just to hear people, and they celebrate how she cooked,
 and how she took care of family. Her life wasn't in vain. It was a true celebration. So if we can keep their family and their prayers in the time of loss of their his mom. Thank you.
 customers thank you council president mr patrick lally passed away this week as well um mr lally was a marine school teacher and a retired new york state trooper he and his family made their home in south buffalo and our community is much better for it um as council member glomach mentioned i'm not sure there's a better thing you can say about someone that's then they're simply they were a good man
 you
 by his wife, Kathy, children, Karen, Colleen, and Patrick, who was a captain within the Buffalo Fire Department. Also Mrs. Mary Hennegan, the longtime steward of Buffalo Irish Center, past president of the Gaelic American Athletic Association and the owner of the tower gift shop passed away over break. Mrs. Hennegan is the mother of city court judge, Shannon Hennegan, who we all know very well. Mrs. Hennegan spent her life enriching this community with Irish culture
 and I'm particularly thankful for that. She is going to be sorely missed by her children, Mary Kay, Tom, Shannon, and Barry. And she will, in addition to that, will be missed by a tremendous list of friends. And finally, Paul Fitzpatrick Sr., a husband, father, friend, coach, and mentor, passed away after a long illness while we were on break.
 Coach Fitz was the longtime varsity football coach at time in high school and is still one of the winningest coaches in New York State history. But as great as a coach as Coach Fitz was, he was infinitely a better man. I'm not sure I've ever known anyone who's possessed a combination of an ability to captivate a room with storytelling and jokes.
 along with the willingness to give you the shirt off his back and do all of it in the most humble way possible. Coach Fritz was a tremendous man, and I consider myself extremely lucky for knowing, for having known him in multiple capacities, including coach, a friend of a father, and ultimately a friend of mine. And he is going to be sorely missed and forever missed by his wife, Jeannie, and his daughters, Jen, Carrie, and Molly.
 Thank you. I know we've stood, but we've been out for a month, so it's a lot to be able to acknowledge. I want to acknowledge the passing of the mother of our majority leader, Clara Davis, who was funeralized here in Buffalo and who lived in Ellicott, worshipped in the Maston, but was all over the place. And so we acknowledge that. We also want to acknowledge the mother of
 Judge Mary Carney from our family court system who passed. And then on Tom Smith, I didn't know that he had visited, I guess, our church once. I don't know when, but he liked the music. So for his funeral, he wanted gospel music and had somebody from the church, two people, Leah Post, Leah Post.
 come and sing, Pope and also Charles Eberhardt. Charles Eberhardt was asked, I guess the day before, to sing, Oh Danny Boy.
 A African-American man who has never sang Oh Danny Boy, but he said he got the beat from a gospel song and he sang at Tom's funeral. So we were honored to be involved in such a giant's funeral. But the fact that in life he brought people together and in death he brought people together.
 So all of those names that have been called and of course, those who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and other countries and we name Ukraine out of our mouths. We pause now for a moment of silence. Thank you all. Today we have a special presentation. I don't think she was just here to be in our meeting by Council Member Rashid N.C. Wyatt.
 Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm honored to recognize Maria Sisti, if she will come down.
 Now, I was fortunate to be asked to come and give a proclamation, a resolution the first time on Friday. And she was so surprised that all of her colleagues, even those who are off, came in to celebrate her. After four decades as an assignment editor at WGRZ-TV Channel 2 News, Maria Sisti is retiring from the news industry and shifting her focus to a cause near and dear to her heart.
 Whereas Maria who graduated from Canisius College and JFK High School, where she is a JFK High School Wall of Famer, retiring to spend more time with her family, her two fur babies, Ili and Haley, Margaret, and is putting her passion to work when she starts a new chapter with the Erie County SVCA.
 Maria has devoted her life to serve the city of Buffalo, Western New York, the surrounding communities, and the viewers of Channel 2 throughout her career at WGRZ TV with her dedication to the news, Maria's impact
 on the community over the past four decades at WGRZ is immeasurable. Her wealth of knowledge and impact has stretched generations of those who stepped into the newsroom at WGRZ. I hereby proclaim this Common Council of the City of Buffalo, New York, recognize and congratulate Maria Sisti on her retirement from WGRZ TV Channel 2 News and wish her the best of luck in the future. Thank you so much, Maria.
 And it was so honorable to hear her colleagues tell stories about how she made a difference. And I told her about this young man who we've gotten from WGRZ, Michael Reed, and the impact that he's made on the Common Council from how you educated and taught him. So again, thank you so much.
 Thank you, Council Member, President Pridgen, and the rest of the assembled body here. I've covered more council meetings than I can count. I've read more agendas than probably any kind of document in my 40 years. And to all of you and your staffs and those who have served before you,
 Thank you for taking my phone calls, for the information you provided, the interviews you've done, helps that up. I'm humbled by this recognition. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Holding, what is it? What's the holding people in power accountable? Is that what it is? Now they'll probably make a commercial out of that. I want my contract, Claudine, if you do. Thank you.
 Thank you. Have a great time over at SBCA. Thank you. All righty. And we know that you would love to stay, but you are free. We understand that you might have more exciting things to do, so thank you for being with us.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on July 26, 2022 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objections, it does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you have not been able to adequately read a late file.
 Majority Leader, we're going from the top today. From the top. From the top. Item number one, appointments for Board of Ethics. Motion to approve items one through five. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number six, designated developer agreement for Aotoshi. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingman. Council Member Golumbik has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Can we revisit item number five for a quick second, please? Sure. Motion to revisit item number five. Motion to revisit item number five.
 Thank you. This item is in regards to a development at the foot of Howell Street near the Skagit Creek. What this does is it gives Savarino Company designated developers, development developer status for that property.
 There still will be community meetings. There still will be public meetings. Savarino's company has been great with meeting with the community. This is a little bit contentious because of the size of the development. But the one thing that I keep.
 banging away on is that this used to be an old property that about 15 years ago when Mayor Brown first came into office, he, I, and the state and feds worked together to clean up the PCPs and other poison that was seeping in the ground from this building. This building had a tannery in it at one time, it had an oil production site in there. So you can imagine what seeped into the ground. The problem was, was that when the feds and the state came into the area,
 We could only get to within eight or 12 feet of the property line because of the building that was there. So the poison and it's literal toxic poison that is underground there is still there. And it is probably, I'm sure, still spreading, even though we removed as much as we could 15 years ago.
 So the Savarino and Company, to me, one of the main reasons that I'm supportive, I haven't given my 100% pledge at this point, but I am supportive because they are willing to go in there, take the building down, and remove this poison technology.
 toxic waste that is there. And I've had a couple of the neighbors that live adjacent to this property that have said, you wouldn't want this big monstrosity next to you, would you? And my response has been, I wouldn't want the toxic chemicals seeping into my basement next door to me
 more even more so. So I think that what people have to remember is that this has been a problem over 100 years. We addressed half of it 15 years ago or so when we could. We did as much as we could. Now we have an opportunity. The property had been on the market for approximately seven years
 and seven years ago I used to pick up the phone and I would call developers and I wouldn't usually get phone calls back now they actually call me first because Riverside Black Rock is a little bit of a hot spot now in the city of Buffalo. I think that as much as the scope of this project may be large in many regards I think that what residents have to remember
 is that this toxic waste that is spewing from this building will be removed when this project is completed, if it moves forward. So, but once again, this only allows them to be the designated developer,
 of the project, if they purchase anything, if they go anywhere more forward with this, they will have to come back to this council and there will be meetings. I've already spoken to San Marino and company. They will have meetings. They've already had, I think three in the community. And if we need to, we'll have three more or whatever that number is so that we let residents know what is going on. But I just want people to know this isn't some fly by night. We're giving them everything. It's all over and done with. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item number seven, DBA Atlas Kitchen Brawley Market Lease. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Item number eight, reported sale 779 East Sullivan. Motion.
 Motion to send a CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number nine, report of sales, 62 Eureka. Motion to approve items nine and 10. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 11, report of sale, 108 Hastings. Motion to send a CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 12, report of sale, 72 Herman. Motion to approve items 12 through 16. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 17, report of sale, portion of 15 Shrek. Motion to send a CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 18, report of cell 88, Shepherd. Motion to approve items 18 through 20. Second by Council Member White. Item number 21, report of cell 68, Waring. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Item number 22, rescind the cell of 151, Garner. Motion to approve items 22 and 23.
 Second by Council Member Fearlow. Item number 24, submission of monthly report for August 2022. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item.
 Item number 25, approval of our installation on the Asperger ramp. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 26, appoint equipment operator. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 27, certificate of necessity. Motion to send to finance items 27 through 29. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 30, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send civil service items 30 through 35. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 36, agreement for Perkins Park Extension. Motion to approve items 36 through and including...
 51. Second by Council Member President Pro Tempstam. Item number 52, drug asset forfeiture wire transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Tempstam. Item number 53, permission to upset 2021 state homeland security grant. Motion to approve items 53 through 56. Second by Council Member Golombi.
 Item number 57, Appoint Assistant Corporation Council 2. Motion to send the civil service items 57 through 63. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item number 64, food store license 3209 Bailey. Motion to send the legislation items 64 through 66. Seconded by Council Member Wingo as the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. There's a food store at 851 East Delavan. And...
 There's also another store that has an application in the Madison District as well that aren't necessarily changing names or types of business or what they offer, but they're changing ownership. The owner, the new owner of one of these stores reached out to my office because they were informed that their item was tabled. They did not understand why they
 did not get approved since the business name was not going to be changed. And my response was, I don't know you, you don't know me, and you don't know what the conditions are to operate a business in Masson District such as a food store. So we need to talk. We'd also like to understand the reason why this business was sold in the first place to your cousin. These type situations are becoming more and more prevalent
 as the days, weeks and years go by because of other benefits, I should say. I'm not accusing anyone. I'm not alleging any impropriety. But at the same time, why are you selling your business or why is this business being sold every two or three years? So in Mastin, I would like for anyone and everyone watching to understand that.
 that if you apply for a new license, the old license doesn't give you license to continue to operate if the business is sold. That business just went out of business and you're opening up a new business. That person who has that application for the license has to come before this body or that representing council member and explain what they're going to be doing there. Because we're not going to be tricked, so to speak.
 into just allowing someone to stay open, especially if that location has been an issue to the constituents or the residents in that area. There's been, you know, phone calls made to the office regarding price gouging.
 and other things that we'd like to make sure that we are addressing before any new business and new business owner opens in Madison District. So we've been working with Corporation Council on this issue, it's very issue as well as others, but in the time it takes for someone to quote unquote sell their business and then apply for a license to the business they just quote unquote purchased,
 Uh, it doesn't take anything more than a phone call to the office and let us know the nature of the sale or why you were selling the business. I'm not sure if it's any of our business, why they sold it in the first place, but it is our business to approve it or not. And because of that, when there is a new owner of a food store in the district, this council member wants to know who you are and what you stand for.
 And one of the businesses, Mr. Chair, Mr. President, has a power of attorney because the owner doesn't speak English. I'm not accusing them of anything. So you power of attorney.
 And the owner of this store come down to the office and let's have a conversation. If you need to interpret, that would be great. Other than that, no business buying a business or no person buying a business applying for an application, the default response by this body is not an approval. And I think that's important for people to know.
 The default response is not an approval. Just because it's an already an open business does not mean you have license to operate that business. This could possibly be a business that you purchased that you didn't realize community wanted us to close. And now because there's a new applicant, we can close. We don't have to approve the business. And it literally has to shut down.
 So I appreciate the opportunity to just address that issue. But in the future, I want any and everyone to know this council member, the default response is not an approval just because you're applying for a license to a business that's already open because you kept the same name. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next item. Item number 67, Full Star License, 260 Rhode Island. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 68, Full Star License, 1076 Sycamore. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Council Member Noah Cousins. Item number 69, Garbage Collector License. Motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 70, Lodge and House License. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 71, Second Hand Dollar, 2730 Delaware Avenue. Motion to approve items 71 and 72. Second by Council Member Freelow. Council Member... Can we go back to item number 70, please?
 I will go back and then council members just want to remind them we've been out for a month, we usually go back at the end and then go back but because we're close. Yeah. Okay, motion to move. Motion to revisit item 70 second by Council member no accounts. So I just had a quick question corporation counts regarding lodging houses, rooming houses, are they all this are lodging houses, rooming houses, boarding houses at all, are they all the same? Assistant Corp comes with Karen Gordon, they're all under section
 six of the use table of the UDO. So lodging houses is the big title and they all fall under. So there are subcategories. So whether they're a subcategory or the lodging house category, they all have to come before this council to be approved? Correct. What do we do? Should we find that they are operating without our approval? We don't know about them. They're not registered anywhere. Well, that's where permission inspection comes in and permission inspection can go out and give them a citation for operation without a license.
 Okay, so just a citation, we can't force them to. I know we don't want to displace anyone who's living in a home, but at the same time, the property owner or the operator of that lodging house should have known to come before this body to register that home because we have some places in my district that are operating right now. And if all they get is a citation, that's a slap on the wrist.
 uh well look at it this way they would not know because we're operating as per say they don't know that they need a license right and unless we inform them that they do they would not know to come for one so after that citation has taken place then we have reason to follow up with a closure notice if necessary having if they didn't come to the to the city for that license thank you
 Item 73, Sidewalk Cafe, 111 Genesee Street. Motion to send legislation item 73 through 76. Second by President Pro Tempstam. Item number 77, Auction Vehicles and Equipment. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Boland.
 Item number 78, second quarter project and expenditure report. Motion to send to finance items 78 and 79. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 80, appoint confidential secretary to director of treasury. Motion to send civil service items 80 through 82. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 83, Police Athletic League Game Changers Funding Agreement. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Noah Kouska. Item number 84, AP Benefit Advisors Benefits and Insurance Consultant Extension. Motion to send the finance items 84 through 87. Seconded by Council Member Freer-Levitt. Item number 88, Certificate of Appointment for Account Clerk Typist. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 89, BSA Board Attendance.
 motion to receive and file items 89 through 97 councilmember why item number 98 notice of attention named john e brent garden and martin luther king jr perk motion to send the cd item number 99 certificates of appointment temp provisional permanent motion to send the civil service item
 item 99 second by council member for your love item number 100 a point assistant legislative aid to motion to adapt items 100 through 102. second by council member glenn item number 103 poll numbers on street lights motion to send the cd items 103 through 105. second by council member scanlon and on um 104 we do have the traffic study back
 for the Fostick site. We're now just kind of going through the data. So we'll send it to CD. People in the neighborhood can get online, see that report, see what the report says about parking, about different projects that would need to be done in the future. We'll send it as we've sent it over to CD and we'll,
 Depending on public feedback, it will probably be my suggestion that we do a trial run of closing that street down for about a month and then seeing what happens to it. And I haven't even shared that yet with the Board of Education because I just saw the report. We're able to dig into it. So just so that people in that neighborhood who are concerned about additional traffic and additional parking, this will be in our CD format.
 committee community development and um if if there's someone here to speak if the chairman allows it next week then they'll be able to speak on this but i want to make sure it's very public next item 106 brownfield cleanup program notice motion to receive and file second by council member nowakowski item number 107 purchasing 69 oakman at oakmont avenue motion to send the cd motion to send the cd second by council member why
 Petitions, item number 108, 279 Guilford for assembly. Motion to send to legislation, City Planning Board, items 108, 279.
 Through 116 second by council member know Kowski. Number 117 petition to stop Hopewell. Motion to send the CD second by council member wide who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Again, we have residents that continue to scream loud and clear that they don't want an opioid treatment center in their community. And they had over the recess they had a prayer vigil, another protests.
 And we still haven't heard from a number of individuals, but they have met with our assemblywoman, and she's given them some guidance, which I appreciate. And I believe they have a meeting with Senator Kennedy on Friday. But again, this is a train wreck waiting to happen. You look at the other areas where these treatment centers are. I know I talked to a number of
 churchgoers over at Elam and where that location, where that Opioid Treatment Center and they complain over and over again. Why would we do something that like that to a community? But again, it seems as though when it comes to our community,
 when it's African Americans, it seems as though you just do whatever you want to do and who cares? Well, these folks are not going to give up. They're not going to give in because they know how it's so important to not only our seniors, our children, to be in a neighborhood where folks are preying on those who are in need of help.
 We absolutely know that these individuals need that help, but to put it in a neighborhood again that's already challenged with shootings, with loitering, with just dumping, we don't need additional. And so again, I will continue to stand with these residents as they continue to fight.
 for their community. We always have to fight for every single thing. Well, we're going to stand up and we're not going to give in to this. So again, I'm glad this is going to committee. We'll hear more information. And every time I get an opportunity to speak on this, I want to speak loud and clear because this is a
 democracy, not a dictatorship. And so the community should have been alerted or had a conversation that this was going to happen. To bring people from Cattaraugus County to the city of Buffalo for treatment and then take them back makes no sense. And somebody needs to step in and say no. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I disagree with you. I think it makes all the sense. And here's what sense it makes.
 makes the sense that there are people who don't necessarily consider our communities.
 That's the sense. And whether it's that, and I know Council Member Wingo talked about it the last time, I've talked about it with several other council members, because in the Latino community, we had the same thing in which people did the same thing. Protested. Council Member Revere was there. Council Member Franczak was there. I was there. Other council members who weren't even from the area were there. And it's open as day. As a matter of fact, I think that they don't appreciate much me bringing that up.
 because I saw him recently, and it was a little cool reception. But I think if we don't, and I think this is a time now to start lobbying our elected, our state officials, because it happens not just with this. It has happened in the Ellicott District where the state has authorized a
 I see there some type of center in the middle of a neighborhood never came to the Common Council because they didn't have to never contacted our office and literally started construction. And it was the neighbors in the middle of a block who started calling, and we went out and got it shut down, got the organization to abandon the project, but they would have been able to allow it and our own rules allowed it.
 because of the size of the building which we're working on right now because a building under a certain size still does not come to this council. And so we're working on that right now so that every new building, especially that's going to house people, would come to this common council. So you're totally right. Many of your colleagues, if not all, stand with you and the university district because we've been through it. But they know. Yeah.
 exactly what they're doing. Councilmember Wingo? Mr. Chair, thank you. My heart goes out to the folks in Judge's Row and the folks who live over by Eggert in the University District. My heart goes out to them. There's been an opioid methadone clinic around the corner from my house for the last 30 years. And I never knew what it was when I was a little boy.
 But growing up, I began to understand as I would walk to the bus stop every single morning. And because of the, you know, work that's being done there, which is necessary work, and it's work that is absolutely commendable, I still have to reroute my children when they were walking to the train station to go to school. And I said this before, and I'll say it again.
 I do support University District. I will speak up and speak out with them should our schedules permit. But my question is, don't we write the zoning ordinances? Don't we have the ability to change the zoning, even if it's in a commercial district that certain type businesses have to come before this council for approval?
 just like food stores have to come before us and other type businesses, uh, food, uh, food trucks come before us and other, why can't we write the ordinance? And if we don't have one already, can we begin to write an ordinance that would literally, uh,
 inhibit their ability to just go and put this type business in a residential community and write something to the effects that if you are looking to build an opioid or methadone clinic, which is again, absolutely necessary and commendable work.
 It should go on a medical campus somewhere or very close to a medical campus somewhere or should not be within so many feet of a residential community. Is that possible? Do we already have something like that? And if we don't, can we begin looking at how we can get that done? Because I really, my goodness, I feel so bad.
 for the folks who are fighting this fight that seems helpless and hopeless, but we don't give up hope. But it just seems so unfair and egregious as to why this is being put in a residential community where there are so many other locations where it can go. I would like to know, do we have that ability to exclude people
 I mean it, certain businesses from putting their establishments that close within that type proximity to a residential community.
 I'm a CENCORP Council Karen Gordon. I think that's a, I guess for now it's a tricky question for me to answer. It involves a lot more than just the fact that we do have power over our zoning ordinance to dictate the way we use our land. And that is what we've done with the UDO. Okay.
 However, there are certain areas where the use might be superseded by a greater ordinance greater than the city of Buffalo UDO as a state law or something to that extent. So that might be the situation here. I can't say definitively, but I think for things like that, it would be a lot more digging and more review for me to give you a straight answer or something like that.
 to the best operability right now, but our UDO dictates to a great extent where certain buildings can be placed. So I guess my follow-up question is, we can't cancel out state law, but we can certainly, as a municipality, add to it, as long as it doesn't conflict or contradict the state law. So let's say...
 If I may, Council President, the Liquor Authority. New York State has the New York State Liquor Authority, and a business is given the license to sell liquor.
 But we still have the final say. So if that building gets built or that establishment is able to serve foods or certain type aspects of that business, we still have control over. So since we're not trying to contradict state law and since we're not trying to rule out what the state has already permitted.
 Is it possible for us to ensure that even though our UDO specifies how we use various properties, certain type businesses with specificity can not be established in certain areas within a certain proximity to a residential community?
 Right. That's an excellent question. I think we might be able to, but I guess a bigger question to you and to the council is, have we looked to see if the way the UDO is right now, that building is authorized by the way the UDO is written? And that could be what it is as well, that the UDO allows such a building to be there. So that's an excellent point. We may need to look to see how our UDO is written to see if it's because of the allowance of the UDO that a building was able to be there in the first place.
 Maybe we need to start having sensitive areas too in the city of Buffalo where you can't have certain businesses that way folks can't have certain things and certain areas and especially residents should be considered sensitive areas. I know we've done some research in council staff regarding community safe zones. Some zones should be just...
 on the map that will inhibit or preclude them from establishing a certain type of business in that area. Because again, my heart goes out to the folks over there and any other folks have to deal with. I don't care what population it is. It does absolutely have propensity to seem as though if
 they're always in African-American communities or communities of color or communities of where poverty is more prevalent than others. Seems as though those are the areas where they typically have these type of establishments, but at the same time, as a body, I believe we should look very diligently into writing and drafting the law that will preclude them from being able to put the businesses in our communities.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Councilman Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I remember being involved when they opened up the methadone clinic on Virginia Street and you along with Councilmember Francik and I supported the community's concerns and I certainly support Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt. I'd like to know how other municipalities, towns and villages are able to keep these types of facilities.
 organizations out of their neighborhood. I think there is a need for methadone clinics in certain places, and I think that's what we need to look at. But there shouldn't be an oversaturation of those kinds of programs within neighborhoods, within the city of Buffalo. I think we need to look at it more broadly. I think we need to find out why these facilities aren't built or
 opened up in different parts in Cattaraugus County and Amherst and Williamsville and Clarence and outside in Hamburg and Orchard Park. Many of the people that die of opioids live outside the city. As a matter of fact, I went to Memorial Service at LaSalle Park, where they put all the pictures of people that died and where they lived.
 Many of them lived outside the city of Buffalo. So we do have an opioid problem. And the problem I see right now is, as far as the selection the target areas that they're choosing neighborhoods like University District lower west side. Those areas, believe it or not, had high concentration of drug activity that I could not understand.
 The area on Virginia Street that they picked was the prime area for people that wanted to buy heroin and cocaine and.
 And back in the day, everybody knows Virginia Street, 10th Street, Virginia and Hudson Street. So I'm just trying to understand you're putting programs right there where we have a problem. So I think I'm open to the process to look at the process and how they target areas. And it should be more inclusive. It should include areas like those. I think people would be more acceptable there.
 And less reluctant if they say, hey, we're being fair. This is a problem. This is a comprehensive way of looking at it. And, you know, there's no preference here in terms of location. So I'd like to figure out or have the state explain to us how they determine that.
 where these places should be and how certain places are excluded from this process, at least as far as I know. I could be proven wrong. They can come back here and say, no, we do have one here. We do have one there. But let them come and explain it to us. I need to know where exactly why are they using their zoning code to exclude these kinds of programs in their neighborhoods? And can they do it?
 So I'd like to see the state have the state represent Department of Health whichever department it is come in and explain this process to us in a fair way. So I support council member, why it as far as his concerns about putting them in residential areas I think one of the things that we
 thought even back when it was Hispanics United, this isn't the place for the program. A residential area where you have kids, playgrounds, this isn't the right place for it. So hopefully they'll listen to you. They certainly didn't listen to us back then. They didn't listen to us and we spoke out loud and clearly to the point where people were upset at us for the positions that we took. Thank you very much.
 Council Member, thank you. Council Member Nookhouse? Just to be brief, I actually live around the corner from the establishment that you guys are talking about, and I could throw a stone from it from my own house. And we actually recently last month had a flare-up of drug dealers that were trying to work my corner. Unfortunately, they didn't understand that I'll work my own corner, and we'll make sure that we don't have that happening on my corner or anywhere. And oftentimes, if you express concern
 for these areas you're met with an immediate attack of
 you are insensitive and you don't want to have dialogue, you know, with incorporating folks that are sick and need help in your communities. And I resent that, you know, we can just cut through the nonsense and talk about the real issues that we see when we are having certain establishments and places in areas, residential areas, especially dense ones. But I'd also just like to prevent that clarity and context for the university district.
 Got it. Council Member White, I just want to say tremendous leadership on this. And you've been consistent all through even the break. And as has been said, we're not against treatment centers. We're against how the treatment of residents is taking place in this and in other situations. So tremendous leadership. Council Member White. Mr. President, and I think that Council Member, our Majority Leader made a great point
 could we invite someone from Oasis here to come to this council because we've all been impacted and had to deal with it at some point
 How they go about what their process is because I think that's something that the residents should know you don't see these treatment centers in the suburban areas they're always saturated and inner city community, so I think that will be a good thing. Well, because it has come up, would you, I mean and it's right now in your district can I suggest that you write something and get it filed.
 that would ask them and write something on the other concern of the zoning of what is allowed. And we've been having a side conversation about it being sovereign. But there's some
 conversation that still the government would have to be involved. So I think because right now you are the one that is out there on the issue, it is affecting your district. Let's put it in writing and get something filed before this body so that we officially ask them to come in. Will do. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Jarris.
 Councilmember Williams? If I could just ask to work with University District on that resolution for or ordinance for the UDO to ensure because this is something that I've lived with for very, very long time. I'd really, really pretty much like to ensure that the folks in Madison District are heard as well. I'm pretty sure Fillmore District and Niagara, whoever, but I would like to make sure that we are part of that draft.
 drafting process regarding the ordinance for the UDO. Right. And it's not actually the ordinance for it, but the asking for clarification. Okay. So the clarification and the research, I'd like to just make sure that we stay right up there with you on it because again, I'm very much in support of all of the residents who live in that area, as well as those who have not been heard in the past, who've
 where there have been recent methanol clinics installed. Again, this is not an us against them. This is us for us and ensuring that they hear us, and that when we speak, we are heard and seems to me as though we have not been heard. I just want to make sure that we are being heard and I would like to make sure that we're working very closely with university on that issue. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 All right. Next item. Item 118, support for North District Waterfront. Motion to adopt the results from A&R to CD. Second by Councilmember Golombak, who has the floor?
 Thank you, Mr. President. This resolution is not to pit communities against each other. This is not to commit to pit, you know, North and Niagara together against other parts of the city of Buffalo that have waterfront development that has been going on. This is a reminder that there are other parts of the waterfront in the north part of the city of Buffalo, Riverside.
 black rock, which was an independent community once upon a time that was found actually farther in David's district at that time up near Porter Avenue. But black rock was a separate entity for many years. It was a waterfront development.
 Unity Island, Broderick Park. There's a lot of places up in the north part of the city of Buffalo that are adjacent to the waterfront. And while I understand that, you know, we need the downtown area to be vibrant, we need a renaissance for all of the city of Buffalo. One of the things that if you took a look in my district.
 along the waterfront, approximately anywhere between 14 and 18,000 people could walk from their houses to the waterfront in a five to 10 minute period of time.
 And one of the things that I think that is happening in downtown and that is causing a resentment, and I can understand this from a lot of residents in the city of Buffalo, they see development taking place for tourism, for outsiders to come in to the neighborhood. It's not all outsiders. I go downtown, I go to different parts of the city of Buffalo, the waterfront, bike ride, walk, whatever, visit. But I think that there's a perception out there.
 that this is being built for others. And I think that the northern part of the city of Buffalo, from roughly Broderick Park north, has had community groups who have been putting together plans, who have been discussing ideas. And I think they've not really gotten the attention that they really deserve.
 from New York State and from the federal government. To give you an example, years ago, when all of or most of Unity Island was in my district, the West Turtle Association sat down and we took out this big, long...
 leaf of paper like kids would color on. And we drew what we wanted to see there. And we submitted it at that time to our elected representatives. And one of the things that they asked for was, or two of the things that they asked for, was a boardwalk, a
 around parts of, I think it would have been the northern tip of Unity Island, and along the waterfront between roughly Hurdle and Vulcan Street. I think there were some early discussions with the Army Corps of Engineers who said that they would have to do a study. And they said, although some of our contacts there said that they didn't see it being a problem because they didn't think that we were going to disturb water habitat or anything like that.
 And unfortunately, it just never picked up steam. You know, because from the perception, I think, of local people, it was because downtown and other parts of the area were more important than our community. I...
 I don't think that that was necessarily the reason why it happened, but I do think that it is time that we start to focus on other parts of the city of Buffalo. And in particular, I'm gonna be selfish here and say the North District, because the North District is a waterfront community.
 I've met with Congress member Higgins when he's come to visit the Fenian Monument at the foot of hurdle or when he's visiting the North District, and I remind him he smiles at me sheepishly and you know I'm sure that he wants to do something there. But, you know, my residents are getting frustrated, and they would like to see more work being done there.
 And finally, roughly, I think one third of the people who live in my district and probably one fourth of that 18,000 number that live within five or 10 minutes of the waterfront don't have cars.
 so they can't get to other places. I'm amazed when I walk or ride my bike on Unity Island with the different ethnic groups that are there that are selling and bartering and visiting and playing. And it's amazing how that island is being used. And I think with some more TLC from the state and from the federal government, and I'm not gonna not hold myself accountable as well, with me pushing that,
 putting my money where my mouth is by getting city funds to work on whether it's a splash pad at Riverside Park, which is two minutes from the waterfront, or anything else. So I just want to, I just don't want anyone to think I'm not trying to say take money from one area and put it into another. I'm saying just don't forget about these areas, Black Rock, Riverside, Unity Island, Broderick Park, etc. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Let me just, I'm glad you brought this up. I wish it would have said everything north of the Peace Bridge. The only time the federal government wakes up and notices anything from the west side to north is when they're talking about the Peace Bridge. And the reason for that is truck traffic and commercial traffic that goes back and forth. That is their interest. Very little to do with the neighborhood that's there.
 As a matter of fact, there were times that policies and plans that they had were against the neighborhood, encroaching into the neighborhood. But it was okay. We need to develop the waterfront because of truck traffic and commercial traffic. But the people that lived there had to deal with the asthma and the fumes and the emissions. And here we are again talking about our waterfront, which...
 sometimes stops somewhere near Virginia Street. And thank goodness to the Ralph Wilson Foundation, because they finally said, hey, let's do something at the waterfront. And they invested, you know, $100 million in that park after years of disinvestment and neglect. But anything north of Virginia Street for many years was no man's land.
 And we need the federal government, our federal representative who have deep pockets, who come into town and say, we're going to give you $25 million for this and $20 million for that to start looking at our water from, from, from,
 beyond canal side going north. And this is not a competition. There are resources out there in the pipeline, but we need our representatives to make, to look at the bigger picture here and look at the communities along that stretch of land. And Council Member Golombic is right. Most of the people live proximity.
 tens of thousands near the waterfront because that's where they want to go. That's where the attraction is. People are now investing on Niagara Street because they want to live near
 near the waterfront, but it needs help. I'm glad we're doing infrastructure projects along Niagara Street, and that's great, but we still need to shore up that part of the city. And I think we need to take another look and we need our representatives to come down there and call us. I have yet to receive one phone call for any of our federal delegation to say, what can we do with the waterfront?
 Outside us calling them and asking them for something. They've never got on the phone and say, hey, you know, there's money in the pipeline, what would you like to see some elected officials do. I still have not heard a federal elected official call me up and say what can we do for that stretch of the city that includes Niagara District and North District, for that matter so. Yeah.
 I don't know if they'll be happy with us today, maybe because we brought this up and we feel neglected, but that's okay. We represent the people that live in those districts. So hopefully the city can make this a priority because the city's support is critically important. We need the administration
 Say, hey, we agree with you. We're going to ask our federal delegation, we're going to go to Washington, we're going to ask for that money. So the city's support is critically important. I'm not just saying, hey, Congressman Higgins or Congressman, I don't know which, I don't know if we have another congressman that represents the city. So it seems like Congressman Higgins for this point. State Senators Schumer and Gillibrand, we need you, we need the city of Buffalo to say, you know, we really need to make decisions.
 this part of the city a priority as well. And there is the feeling of neglect and I agree with council members. So I would join in on this if he allows me to, because it's near and dear to many of my constituents. And I agree with them wholeheartedly. I just, from LaSalle Park, from Virginia Street, all the way up to Ontario, Vulcan, the far end of the North District. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Council Member Glumby. Mr. President, would we be allowed to make those changes to this or would we have to send it back in front of Council? You mean as far as him joining on to? Well, him joining on and then adding north of Virginia or the Peace Bridge. We could do it right now. OK. If you speak that you would like that to be added to this resolution, it'll be adjusted as a floor. OK. Do we need to do that? So it'll be- Early or afterwards? You can do it right now. OK.
 I guess what we could just say is support for Northern water or waterfront north of Virginia, the Virginia Street. That could be the headings of it all the way to the Balkan Street, Balkan Street. So it will be.
 Right. It would be accepted or approved as what are we adopting this? Adopting. Yes, this will be adopted as amended. And the amendment has just spoken to the record. So did we already adopt it? So let's let's rescind the previous adoption. Second by Council Member Golombek, moved by the majority leader. And now the motion is to adopt as amended.
 Dr. Samandez. Second by Council Member Golombi. Send the remainders to CD. And send the remainder to CD. Council Member Golombi. On the final, whereas it says Riverside Park, Towpath Park, Unity Island, Black Rock Canal Park, could we also add Broderick Park? Broderick Park. And what else? And Front Park. And Front Park. So that will be the total amendment of the resolution. Correct. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Thank you. All right.
 Item 119, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve. Second, are we also doing 120?
 Okay, let's see. Approve item 19 and 20. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 121, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adapt item 121 and 122. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 123, supported installation of LED lighting in the streetlight system. Motion to adapt the remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Who has the floor?
 Thank you. I'll be brief because I'd like to talk more about it in CD, but the conversion of street lighting system and LED lighting is actually something that I learned from when I worked for council staff and it was council member Fontana's kind of a
 fascination, but also kind of something that he really encouraged because of the cost savings and to know Richie Fontaine is to know to want to save a dollar. And, but I'm looking at it from a multitude of ways of how do we become more environmentally friendly, have a cost savings to the city, and
 you know, increase technology to benefit our residents when it comes to higher visibility and being able to introduce smart technology and be able to dim streetlights. And we know that greater visibility, you know, is not only better for deterring crime, but also for neighborhoods as well. And I do know that the City of Buffalo and the DPW department did work in conjunction with Nasserta and have a study done to show kind of like,
 the blueprint of what that conversion would look like here in the city of Buffalo. So I'm asking the Department of Public Works to deliver that study to the Common Council so that as members we can examine it moving forward.
 And I know that they have some areas in the Lovejoy District when I was talking to Council Member Bowman, that he could talk to a little bit about some of the kinks that needed to be worked out. But this is something that I really think would be a benefit. You know, the Common Council is its best when it's, you know, also exercising its fiduciary responsibility, but also fortitude and looking ahead on how we can do better as a city and moving forward. So I'd like to have a well-rounded conversation in CD about this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 sure council member bowman then what thank you council president yes i'd like to be added to this and as part of the projects that we completed in lovejoy district uh there is a lot of work that goes into it so we were able to install led lighting on clinton street and lovejoy and it was a success but as council member nolkowski mentioned you know it didn't come without some kinks and um
 It's a little different replacing an LED driver as opposed to a light bulb and it's more expensive so we got to make sure that we, you know, really look into the costs associated with this but it does offer cost savings, efficient greener standards so definitely interested in this I'd like to see a play out on other corridors in the district, but, you know, it doesn't come without challenges. Thank you.
 Thank you, Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to be added to the resolution as well. Hopefully by the end of next year, we're going to be having a major project in the University District on Bailey Avenue. I certainly want to see LED lights, we can be as efficient as possible and cut down on to save the taxpayers a dollar. The more we can do that, the better off we are. Even if there's kinks, that's something that we've worked through, but I'd definitely like to be added if it's okay with the sponsor. Thank you.
 President Proctor? What was the motion here? Is it, it's remainders going to CD, correct? Right. I would maybe ask staff to send, request a representative from Public Works to come that day because I believe we are currently under the, in the process of purchasing the entire light system and converting everything to LED. So I'm sure they could probably give us an update on that at that point.
 Council Member Nocalski. Yes, when I had talked to Commissioner Finn about a month ago, he had said that he was going to have a study in the city because it had caught the attention of the mayor and is actually something that he's pushed in since 2019. And they were weighing their options, but from a month ago, he didn't tell me that they were going to purchase it. But yeah, if we could have someone from the DBW to articulate that to the council, I think that'd be great. Council Member Rivera? I agree. So the question is,
 for them to explain the results of the study to the council, or for us to go forward with the plan to purchase the, to buy back all our lighting systems to purchase, to build out LEDs. So which was it to, for them to come in and explain the study to us
 Okay. Oh, I'm fine. Yeah. You can include me in it. We are asking you to come in and explain the study to us. Absolutely. And there are some challenges from what I understand as well. Okay.
 Next item. Item 124, waive fees for Pulaski Day. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Noh, Councilmember. Item number 125, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 126, approval notifications for street closures. Motion to adapt the resolved remainder to CD for items 126 and 127. Second by Councilmember Dlumbeck. Just briefly on these, in the same way, discuss it more in CD.
 One of the things we had people come, well, at least one person, but I've had several complaints about street closures, especially when you look at, and this isn't picking them out, but they are large events that move in a slow roll. And people not being, having no idea at times, if they don't live in those neighborhoods, that their streets will be blocked, sometimes for 15 minutes, sometimes for half an hour.
 We have medical personnel that need to get to work. We have medical emergencies. And what this is really looking at is that there should be, I think, a searchable database right on our city website where you're able to look at any date and see any street that is going to be closed. We have block clubs that have events. At times, I've had complaints from people who live right on the street and say, I wasn't notified, had no idea. I had people coming over, etc.
 All of these events have to be approved by special events. So they have a database. The people should have a database. That way, the concern about...
 Events like Slow Roll, that's not just in one place. A person should be able to look and see that on Monday or Tuesday, these streets will be affected and will be temporarily closed off. Because when I say they close them off, they close them off. And I'm not against Slow Roll. I don't need 100 emails. End of the day, there are people who live in these neighborhoods that should know. We had a situation with a funeral procession.
 that a night before a funeral and the funeral procession is going through, a street is temporarily blocked off.
 The funeral procession is stopped in between. And there's no way for an undertaker to know that. There's no way for people to know it. And I think a simple solution is just the sharing of information. So we'll talk more and people can come to CD if the chairman is going to bring it up this week so that we can start to talk about what will be our policy for closing off streams. Council Member Wyatt? If you could please add me to that as well. Add Council Member Wyatt to it. Add Council Member Revere to it.
 Alrighty. Oh, and on 127. So I know that we, that there are meetings when major streets are being redone, reconfigured, but I think it has to be much more transparent. Outside of City Hall right now, I think it's going to one lane, if you look straight down the street.
 I'm really confused why we're going to one lane in a city that's growing. And now I'm in one lane. If a car breaks down, if a car is slow, we're stuck in that lane. And I think that when you're talking about we got Main Street coming up and we've had a lot more meetings than we have before.
 probably in any other project from the administration for Ellicott. But right outside in downtown City Hall, I know we have the bike lanes that we have there now. We've got parking lanes. We've got widening up of sidewalks. But when you're talking about main streets and now many of these streets are coming down to one lane,
 and the traffic nightmares that we're beginning to see of people getting into the city, people getting out of downtown and other areas. So this basically is looking at, and we'll invite our folks from Public Works to come, so that has to be coordinated, but we need to know what that process is. Outside of City Hall, I don't know of one meeting that we were invited to, not one. I was told stakeholders were invited.
 And I'm a stakeholder. The Electorate Office is a stakeholder. The way I found out was looking out of the window. And I said, I know they're not making this street into one lane. And when I made the call, they definitely are. Just want to know the philosophy about it and the process and making that process a lot better than what it is, especially as it affects people.
 mostly is major streets where you got traffic patterns changing and all kinds of stuff people need to be involved in that councilman wingo then councilman minola thank you mr chair can we also inquire about delivery trucks because going down to one lane when you have those huge delivery trucks there they are obstructing all kinds of traffic and if there's a bike lane they are significantly obstructing the bike lane as well so can we please look at the lip i agree uh
 and that's happening right now if you come down Delaware and now the delivery trucks are parking in the middle of the street and you have I believe really one major active lane and you got delivery trucks in the middle you watching people go across very busy traffic to get those goods and very good point Council Member Milcox Thank you Mr. Chair I also want to let my constituents know that I also understand their
 their apprehension and their slight anger towards uh this this problem because i have allen street phases one two and three in my district and it's greatly rerouted traffic and having uh once quiet neighborhood uh residential streets then become and become rerouted and be kind
 rerouted pretty rapidly within a few days with short notice and i understand uh the problems that that causes and i do have to say alex bullers from dpw who's working on the l street project has been super responsive to myself and to my constituency uh but
 Just as we see more dollars come down to the city of Buffalo for ARP dollars and infrastructure dollars, we're going to see more infrastructure work get done in the city of Buffalo. And we're going to see more complexity in traffic patterns as that work is done from sewer work to street lighting to sidewalks and streets. So as we move forward, I think that this is something that we really need to iron out. Thank you, Mr. President. You make a very good point. There's one thing that repave a street. I mean, you're going to have a committee meeting to repave the street. Probably not.
 There's another thing when you are changing the flow of traffic, changing lanes, and you're totally right. What I don't want to happen is to be under.
 to be under the gun like we got to get this money out the door so we're moving fast it's got to be a process in which we're included the people are included so you make a very good point thank you councilman riviere thank you very much mr chairman i agree i think there needs to be more uh public engagement uh when you're talking about changing the parking patterns that actually affect neighborhoods um we had a change on forest avenue where they reduced
 One lane each side. And they did these bump outs on a corner. They put these little poles up. Most of them have been run over by fire trucks, garbage trucks. And I,
 From an engineer standpoint, I'm just trying to understand what were they even thinking. Now this comes from somebody that supports bicycling and pedestrians and who sponsored the complete streets for the city of Buffalo. I don't know back in 2008 2007.
 But now people are calling us frustrated and they think it's the council members who are doing this. And I am not taking ownership for whoever designed that on forest and yes, on for bike lanes. But when you do bump outs right on a corner on a narrow street.
 And vehicles have to make this turn onto another narrow street because now you've bumped out both of them on a very narrow street, which makes no sense from an engineering standpoint. So I like public works to come in and explain. For many years, they were very conservative with regards to bike lanes. They said, we'll put them where the streets are wide enough, where we can get first responders through, we can get garbage trucks through. Now they seem to be pulling away.
 And many of the people that are calling are the people that are affected directly, that live there in the neighborhood. Now, I have people that support it, but they live somewhere else. The people that support it live miles away or...
 half a mile, three quarters of a mile, don't have it in front of their house. So I'd like Public Works to kind of, hey, talk to us. Let's put a pause on this. Let's engage the community. I don't want to see this mistake done somewhere else. Now, that was temporary. So I don't know what's going to happen with what happened on Forest Avenue, which Council Member Farrell-Leto will be in his district pretty soon. But it is a problem.
 Council Member Golombic has been called, I've been called, I've gotten emails, I've gotten stopped at the market. What the heck did you guys do? We didn't do it. We have nothing to do with it. So hopefully Public Works kind of put a pause and let's have this engagement, let's have this conversation. Let's put bike lanes where they should go in the manner that they should go. But if
 Fire trucks can't get through there and they can't make the turn and delivery trucks are running over them. Something is wrong. Absolutely. And I thought you did put it in there. So thanks for clarifying. Thanks. Because I tried to drive through. I said, what did David do over here? But no, it is not any council member usually. So thank you all. Anything else on that? We're moving on. Next item. Item 128, trailblazing sign for Brothers O'Neill Way. Motion to approve items 128 through 138. Second by council member, Fira Leto.
 Item 139, transfer of funds. Motion to send the finance items 139 and 140. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Do we have any revisits?
 All right. Hearing no revisits. Announcement of committee meetings. The follow-on meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, September 13th.
 2022 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, September 13, 2022 at 10 a.m. And Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, September 13, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, September 13, 2022 at 2 p.m. Councilmembers, any announcements for your district? Councilmember Nowakowski and Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. President. This is...
 This weekend, starting on Delaware and Edward Street, is the General Day Pulaski Day Parade, which is a famous parade in the city of Buffalo because President John F. Kennedy marched in it when he came here in the early 60s that Councilmember Franzak could tell you that he remembers going to see. But I'd be remiss if I didn't say a little bit of history on him. And he was a general that actually was known for his bravery of the siege of Savannah in 17...
 79 and has been recognized by Polish Americans and as you know, as a war hero and as someone that's exemplifies service and bravery and the Pulaski Association is working to diversify themselves and make sure that's known to communities about service of everybody and bravery of all those that have served and their
 uh grand marshal this year is veteran and legislator howard johnson of the first district so i encourage everyone to come down um to on delaware avenue to see the parade but also the festival that will be in niagara square thank you councilman wingham
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, the Mastin District stakeholders meeting and breakfast will be this Saturday, September 10th at nine o'clock at the Delavan Writers Center, 877 East Delavan. We will be having presenters.
 of various developments in the district they're speaking again we'll also be discussing other issues uh that plague our community and also solutions that we have to help each block club to deal with certain uh elements in their in their on their streets and in their neighborhoods secondly uh let me just say that uh i was having a conversation with council member
 Noakowski before the session started regarding our recess. And I typically have an issue with walking away and enjoying myself and not thinking about having a hard time, not thinking about what's happening in my office and in the district. But this year, I was really able to have a recess thanks to the wonderful and diligent work
 of the staff members in the Maston District Office who have maintained our running record, who have answered every call that came in the month of August. You would not have known that, you know, we were on recess because of the way the Maston District Office, they came to City Hall every day and did a yeoman job of ensuring that the district knew that we were present there for them. So I'm just giving this encomium to my staff
 and the Mass in district office, because I believe they deserve to know that they are appreciated and they did a great job. Last but not least, Mr. Chair, Mr. Council President, I would like to wish my mother a very happy birthday today.
 And she will, she is 72. She has no shame in anyone knowing her age. She's glad she says I'm the promise plus two. I said mom that's right you are you are the promise plus plus two. So happy birthday to Diane F Wingo, the matriarch of our family.
 We love her and we would just ask that everyone just if you know her phone number send her a little phone call and let her know you love and hang up real quick. She don't talk long on the phone anymore these days, unless she's talking to me and my siblings or her sisters, then she'll, you know, stay on the phone all day but anyway, happy birthday my thank you. Councilmember Wyatt.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I've got a couple of events I want to notify the University District residents of. We have our breakfast going on this Saturday at Girard Place, 2515 Bailey Avenue from 9 a.m. to 12. Please call and register 851-5165. We have a lot to cover.
 A whole lot of stuff. So please come and hear about what's going on in your district. Also, the Girard Place will be having a health fair right after the meeting, a family health fair from 1230 to 230. So if you have concerns regarding health issues, you'll be able to go right after this meeting, right in the same location to discuss that. The other thing I want to remind, inform the residents of is, you know, that this great amount of money that's coming to the east side.
 and we will be having a meeting on uh you're gonna say february on saturday
 Thursday, September 12th at Westminster School to talk about the funding for that so that the residents who want that information about housing, they can come there and get that information. We're taking place at Westminster School on Westminster Street on September the 12th at 530 to 730. So please come out and get that information. I know a lot of people have been calling me. I don't have the details, but we will have representatives from the states
 from the state to give you information and detail about those dollars. Thank you, Mr. President. Did you say the 13th of September? September 12th. Monday. What's that? That's on Monday.
 It's September 12th. I'm sorry. So it's Monday. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am pleased to announce the Lovejoy District Picnic will be happening Wednesday, September 21st from 4 to 7, and it's at Fontana's Grove, 2299 Clinton Street. So Lovejoy District Picnic Wednesday, September 21st. Thank you. All right. Hearing none, motion to adjourn. Second by President Pro Temp, Christopher P. Scanlon.