So council members, we do have a new system. And in order to activate your mic, you just have to make it green. But it is. So if you could turn them off, if you're not using. Testing, testing. You feel like you're at church right now. No, it is a little better sometimes. Mic check on Wingo's mic. Wingo's mic can go up a little bit. Anyway, so turn the monitors up for me, somebody. All right. We all set? Majority leader? Yeah.
 All right. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Here. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombet. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Happy. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Corn Miss President. Stand for pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Welcome back as we come back. I was pondering over a word to share together with you. There's so much, so many things that need prayer at this point. But this morning, as I saw the kids at the bus stop,
 It seemed to me there wasn't anything more important than that prayer for us together today. Matthew 19, verse 13, Little children were brought to Jesus for him to place his hands on them and pray for them, but the disciples rebuked those who brought them. Jesus said, Let the little children come to me. Don't hinder them, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these. When he placed his hands on them, he went on from there.
 I can imagine in many cases and situations where somebody as busy as Jesus and as busy as each of you, there'd be those who are around you who say, well, you know, kids don't vote. You don't have to listen to their voices. Don't make time for them. But I would suggest to you today that there's nothing more important, no greater treasure in this city than our kids.
 It isn't about, you know, job creation is important. It is the economic development is all the things that matter. Nothing's the greater treasure than the next and the next and the next generation among us. And Jesus said, hey, guys, thanks for trying to protect me. Stop. Let the children come because what they represent in childlike faith is what the kingdom of heaven is made from.
 Unlike when I was young and excited to go back to school, some of our kids today went to school and they're frightened by what has happened at schools to kids their own age. Some of their parents frightened, some of the teachers, administrators as well. But just as busy Jesus made time for children for, I've been at council meetings in your district, some of you, when you made time and gave microphones to kids to talk.
 to let them have voice as they spoke. So today I'd like to pray with you and our city for our kids and all those connected to them to be safe as the new school year begins. Father, thank you for your goodness, for your powerful presence. Thank you for the wonderful story here of people who saw your schedule and said, no time for kids in there, but thank you for those on this council
 that have made time to hear the voices of kids. And some of those students today even have fear. We pray, Lord, that you'd stand beyond the human beings that guard our schools, that you would stand present and powerful on behalf of our kids. We ask for an atmosphere of safety so that education and learning can take place. Guard, guide, and protect
 those who guard our schools. And Father, even now, we pause to say this is going to be a great year in Buffalo and a great year for the youngest generation among us. We pray in your precious name. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council Members Memorials, Council Member Nowakowski, Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Allentown community lost John Shepard. He was actually my neighbor. He lived behind me on 10th Street, and he was better known as the Antique Man, and he owned the large structure for many decades in an antique shop on the corner of Allen and College. And in 2019, it was a contested election in the Fillmore District, and I had to send out so many mailers you could wallpaper your bathroom with them. So I was walking a week before the election down
 beautiful sculpture and kind of artisanal
 show in front of his store and it was a butterflies and I look at the butterflies, and it was my face. And I saw that May, his wife, who's a very wonderful woman in him, had taken my campaign mailers and made an art installation out of it. So I had to instantly go inside the store to introduce myself because they weren't home when I was knocking on doors. And they were really the definition of what it is to be eclectic and what it is to be Allentown.
 and that they really were able to help grow that business and the vibe and culture of Allentown. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We asked the city of Buffalo to pray for the family of Walter Kemp Jr. Walter Kemp Jr. moved from Buffalo on to Texas, but he left an indelible mark here.
 in the city of Buffalo with his professionalism and his poise and his gift of playing the piano and teaching. He spent over three decades in the Buffalo public school system, teaching music to our children when music was a priority in the arts. He also took those same youth to Germany and France, Europe in his tenure.
 He played at several churches in the city of Buffalo before he moved to Texas only about years ago, and he leaves to his memory another great musician. These are my cousins, so I don't know if the musicianship runs in the family, but
 Walter Kemp III grew up calling him Trey, and his sister Aria, who are still residents of Western New York. We ask that the city of Buffalo keeps them lifted in prayer as they continue to lift up the life and the legacy of their father through music. We also ask that you pray for the Brown family. Yesterday, the city of Buffalo experienced tragedy and the loss of Joyce Brown. We're praying that you keep her children
 Jayden, Tiffany, little Anthony, keep all of them in your prayers as they've lost sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet mother was also a member of Antioch Baptist Church. She also worked for Crystal People Stokes. She worked for United Way. She always found herself working in jobs that were edifying other people.
 working with United Way, working with Assemblymember and Majority Leader Crystal Peoples-Stokes, as well as working for her untimely passing yesterday at the Northland Workforce Training Center. We're just asking that the City of Buffalo please keep her children lifted and brave. Sorry, Council Member Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside neighborhood lost Rosemarie Szabo, pillar of the community.
 David Lodowski, Ph.D.: member of all saints church lived in the neighborhood forever her husband was a retired buffalo police officer passed away many years ago, but he was sort of the equivalent of a Community police officer 30 years ago and did that type of work also.
 original Riverside resident Pat McGinty is in McGinty's Tavern in downtown Buffalo. I knew Pat when his family lived on Niagara and Tonawanda Street when I was a kid through our mutual friend Buck Leahy. He passed away during the summer as well, and he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends.
 Council Member Scant. Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts Teresa Doherty Krug. Teresa passed away very, very suddenly a couple days ago at a far too young an age. Teresa is the wife of Dave Krug from the Office of Permits and Inspections, who we all know very well. The Doherty and the Krug families are interconnected throughout the entire city through their commitment to this city. The Police Department, Fire Department, Permits and Inspections, but
 Teresa is going to be incredibly missed obviously by her husband Dave and their daughters Abby and Liz and the entire extended family so I ask we please keep them in our thoughts. Councilmember Bowman.
 Thank you Mr. President. Lovejoy District, we lost Mr. Timothy Sassadegh and he was longtime resident Lovejoy neighborhood, lived on Central. He worked in Buffalo Fire Department in their repair shop, retired 26 years in. His son Jeremy is very active in our community so he'll be sorely missed as well. I remember Joyce Nixon who
 worked with so many young people and so many people period. Just a wonderful soul. I think she used to come to our senior day and sing and sang all over the place. But Joyce had a heart for people. And although she has her own biological children, we recognize the closeness that she had with Judge Betty Calvo Torres.
 who she loved and they just loved one another. And so we pray for her husband and family for all of our districts, because all of our districts in some way or another benefited because of the life of Joyce Nixon. Hearing that, we always remember those who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and the freedom for other countries since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 We have a special presentation by Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to ask now the Executive Director of the West New York Library Resource Council, Cheryl Nabicum, take your time. One of my favorite books says, wisdom is the principal thing. So get wisdom. And all you're getting, good understanding. I know that in books, we can find a lot of information, but also in books, we can find hope.
 and inspiration. Being the curator of our information that we've accumulated over all of these eras, all of these millennia, is not an easy task and I don't have never taken that job lightly. The one who knows how to assemble and how to organize and lay out our resource centers and libraries are those resource centers that provide life, they provide hope and inspiration,
 to people when I was growing up, I used to watch Reading Rainbow. How many of us remember Reading Rainbow? Am I? I'm not that old now, come on. But Reading Rainbow used to tell us all that whatever you look for, you can find it in a book. And your imagination, you know, is only as vast as the information that you can put in it.
 And we realize that doing this work is a noble work. And we thank you for all of the work that you've done through the Western New York Library Resource Council. I'll read this resolution now. Whereas Western New York Library Resources Council operates as a commendable not-for-profit consortium encompassing various types of libraries and library systems across Cataraqui, Chautauqua, Erie, Genesee, Niagara, and Orleans counties.
 They exemplify a steadfast commitment to the values celebrated on International Literacy Day by serving as a vital conduit for knowledge sharing, collaboration, and community engagement. The philosophy
 of the Western New York Library Resources Council is to encourage experimentation, both with its office and in collaboration with its members, fostering an environment that nurtures creativity, exploration, and the quest for improved library services.
 The guiding principles of the West New York Library Resources Council include facilitating collaboration, embracing experimentation, cultivating learning, advocating for libraries, and building community all illuminate its commitment to innovation, inclusivity, and the well-being of the library ecosystem. Now therefore, the Common Council honors and celebrates the Learning Resources Council for International Literacy Day,
 a day that serves as a global reminder of the intrinsic value of literacy upholding human rights and fostering a more informed and sustainable society all of which would not be possible if it were not for organizations like the western new york
 resource library resources counseling with that. I'd like to present this proclamation from the Buffalo's Common Council to you and all of your hard work that you have done. If you have any words, Cheryl, go ahead and please share.
 So this is because of a rock and a bicycle so it limits my movement. I want to thank you this is such an honor. And Winnie Lurk is dedicated to making sure that our kids, our college students they have access to the resources that they need.
 And we are right now in the midst of developing programming on book bands and trying to make our communities understand how important and vital our libraries are and that they need to reflect everyone in the community.
 My colleague up here, Grace, just last year, they donated, we donated through a grant some computers to the Afghan immigrant population. And so she was instrumental in doing that. So we are always available to our members to assist them. And you have a fantastic library right down the street here. And John Spears is an incredible innovative director there. So it's an honor to actually collaborate with him.
 So thank you again. I appreciate this honor. This is very unexpected, but very welcome. Thank you. On a motion by Council Member Rivera, second by Council Member Scanlon, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on July 25th.
 2023 approved council members late files out before you are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you fine yes saying no objections we will hear the entire agenda not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review any item I know we have one item coming out of order Majority Leader motion to take item 111 out of order second by council member no
 Item 111, discharge item 23-1169 from community development. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number one, contract amendment for LaBella Association. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number two, DDA extension for 167, 169, 175, Mastin. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number three, DBA for Naja Broadway Market Lease Extension Agreement. Motion to approve items three, four, and five. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number six, report a sale, 1475 Amherst Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Fairletter, who has the floor. Thank you. We'll talk about this item in more detail next week at CD, but...
 I just wanted to make sure that Corporation Council and Real Estate are at CD next week. This house was sold at the city foreclosure auction in 2019 because a user fee wasn't paid. The person who owned the house had passed away, I think, in 2011. So the house was vacant for a while. I'm sure the neighbors will be happy once there's a new purchaser there. I just want to make sure that the...
 proceeds from the sale go to the estate of the woman who passed family I think
 She owed $350 on her user fee bill and the house was foreclosed on and the purchase price is $155,000. So the law department looking for the law department to just figure out how when the city closes on it that the remainder of it goes to her estate or her family and the city recovers the portion that it foreclosed on.
 And ultimately the person who purchased it, it's foreclosure auction, didn't have the funds to close on it. So it went back to the city and that's why the city listed it for sale here. So I look forward to the solution in getting this house in new hands ASAP. Thank you. So it's going to committee, right?
 Yes. Thank you for working for that family. Item number seven, reported so 718L. Motion to approve items seven and eight. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number nine, request to enter into the designated developer agreement for African Heritage Economic Initiative. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 10, recent sale of portion of 36 Lard. Motion to approve items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member Golomba.
 Item number 12, COA for Lynette Boulware-Wright. Motion to send civil service items 12 through 14. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 15, claims are unapproved by auditor. Motion to send. Motion is to approve. Second by President Proopskin. Item number 16, five-year capital debt plan and estimate report for 2024 through 2028. Motion to send to finance.
 State that it were item 16. Yes. Motion was to send the finance second by Councilman Wingo. Just once. Okay. Item number 17 appoint special assistance a controller motion to send civil service second by Councilman Wingo. Item number 18 amended permission to upset funds to enter into agreement motion to approve items 18 through 33. Second by Councilman Wingo.
 item number 34 permission to extend contract for fluent consulting court motion to send the finance items 34 through 41. saying my customer boy item number 42 reported bids buffalo water treatment plant flood resilience improvement project motion to approve items 42 through 45 semi-constant involvement item number 46 notice of appointment street worker motion to send the civil service items 46 through 51 second by council member no council
 Item number 52, permission to renew Western New York polygraph contract. Motion to send to finance. Same by Councilman Fairlittle. Item number 53, appoint police captain. Motion to send to civil service items 53 through 55. Same by Councilman Fairlittle.
 Item number 56, request to purchase software for electronic patient care. Motion to approve items 56 and 57. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 58, request to purchase a used aerial ladder truck. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Kolumbik. Item number 59, Fooster License 139 Grant Street. Motion to approve items 59 through 66. Second by Council Member Nookowski.
 Item number 67, second quarter project expenditure report. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 68, BTVA annual report for 2022. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 69, CAEL contract extension single source. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombeck.
 item number 70 amendment to the 2020 2021 annual action point motion to send the finance second by council member why which item oh i talked to the majority leader this item number 69 was i'm asking that it goes to finance our agendas are different from what we had in caucus so this item i asked the majority leader to send to finance but it was a different number okay so
 So it's 69 that you want. Right. Motion to revisit item 69. Second by Council Member White. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member White. Motion is now to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 71, BMHA requests approval MOA, BMHA, and Local 264. Motion to send to finance. This was...
 I thought it was supposed to be approved. That's why BMHA came to caucus for the questions on this. This is the annual action plan.
 No, this is the contract for BMHA 71. Do you have the right? We're looking, I'm looking at item 70 that goes to finance. 71 is to approve. Thank you. You just sweat just pour it all down. He was about to jump on that seat. Congratulations BMHA and the union. Thank you, Vice Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 72, Board of Ethics. Motion to receive and file items 72 and 73. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 74, Coal Mining Event Application 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 75, items returned to City Clerk by Mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 75 through 77. Second by Council Member Fierletto. Item number 78, Notice of Appointment.
 Motion to send for civil service items 78 through items 78 and 79. Second by Council Member Fairlady. Item number 80, notice of appointment for Council Intern 2. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Miscellaneous item number 81, support to rename Roderick Park to Freedom Park. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Golombek. We acknowledge that there are members of the community who are here with a lot of petitions and who are doing a lot of calling around. I'm not sure whose district and yours. It's in my district. Mr. Chairman,
 There is a request or a petition to change the name of Broderick Park to Freedom Park. We all know that that's part of the Underground Railroad. For many years, we have made improvements to the park in terms of signage so people understand how important the park is to the community.
 interference to all of the people we're going to hold the public hearings. There were many people involved from the Batchelor family who did the reenactments to people, friends of Broderick Park. So I'm looking forward to the conversation where they can come and speak on how important it is to them that we change the name. Thank you very much. Thank you. Councilor Huanco. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This park is very important to the history of Africans in America.
 And those folks who came through the Middle Passage, there were over 12 million Africans left the coast of West Africa to head over across the Atlantic Ocean. Many, 14, 15 percent perished. Many jumped overboard. But those folks who were here in this land, who were running from the oppression, making an attempt to live a life,
 of dignity and civility, they use Broderick Park as a launching pad to go from here to Canada. So I am looking very much forward to all of the things that will be shared with us, all of the stories that will be shared. Every time I go to Broderick Park, Mr. Chair, I see Mr. Johnson. I see George there and I see a lot of his contemporaries there. And it's almost a spiritual place is what it's almost become.
 and i'm looking very much forward to giving this park a name that will represent what it meant to a lot of folks who fled this country to go to a place where they could actually be free so i'm grateful for the petitions i'm grateful for the for the motion looking forward to the conversation and discourse that we'll have on this particular matter thank you mr chair thank you next side
 Item number 82, regarding conditions at Upper Park Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 83, request to speak homesteading. Motion to send the CD, item 83 and 84. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 85, request for time extension for special use for 501 High. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fairlady.
 Item number 86, Warm-Up Act, Letter of Support. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item number 87, Board of Education Resolution on School Safe Zones. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 88, notice of public hearing by Buffalo Water Board. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 89, 2023-2024 arts funding in the City of Buffalo. Motion to send to City item 89 and 90. Seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 91, Seeker NAGDEC Declaration. Motion to adopt.
 Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 92, Rebecca Park Association, Lack of Horizon Files. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Belonga. Petitions, item number 93, Special Use 944 Lafayette, not owner-occupied, short-term rental. Motion to send to Legislation City Planning Board, items 93 through 97. Second by Council Member Fairlotto.
 Item number 98, special use 403 Hampshire for neighborhood shop. Motion to send legislation to the planning board. Items 98 through 109. Second by President Proctor, Scanlon. Community development. Item number one, lease agreement between City of Buffalo and Groundwork Buffalo for the use of 852 East Elephant.
 CD. Didn't we already approve this? No, we discharged it. Okay, got it. Okay, motion to approve. I'm sorry. There's no problem. Second by Council Member Fairletto. Resolutions, item number 110, Eller Black Party Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 112, Budget and Personnel Amendment for Community Services. Motion to approve items 112 through 114. Okay, good.
 Second by Councilman Reneau-Koski. Item number 115, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 115 and 116. Second by Councilmember Reneau-Koski. Item number 117, Fee waiver for cab rides above Red Tails Tuxedo Airmen Traveling Exhibit. Motion to approve items 117 through 119. Second by Councilmember Reneau-Koski. Item number 120, Pregent Call for Management of Ellicott Townhouse Association to appear before the Common Council.
 Motion to adapt the results, the remainder of the CD. Second by Council Member White. Item number 121, fee waiver resolution for annual Sperry Park Unity Day. Motion to approve items 121 through 124. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 125, real property tax law 467 amendment. Motion to adapt.
 Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 126, B. Weber for Surviving to Thriving. Motion to approve items 126 and 127. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. There was one item I think we had to revisit. No revisits, no other item. Council Member Scanlon. Council President, if I could just address item 125.
 thank you council president i think i can recall at one time another every member of this council discussing a desire to help the most vulnerable members of our community whether it be through legislation different resources things of that nature and i would say that
 senior citizens, persons with disabilities, those who are financially unstable certainly fall into that category. Last year, New York State, through legislation signed by the governor, made it possible for local municipalities to change the income levels for property tax exemptions for senior citizens and persons with disabilities. And quite frankly, if we opt into this by passing this resolution, the income level, eligibility level almost doubles
 So we would be welcoming in almost 4,100 members of this community would now be eligible for more tax property tax exemptions. As we all know, the cost of living continues to increase. And these members of our community, senior citizens, persons with disabilities who have these financial restrictions and financial hardships.
 hardships it's going to certainly lighten the property tax load on them so i thank my colleagues for their support in this and again this is going to do wonders for this members of our community senior citizens and persons with disabilities absolutely thank you for highlighting that let's remember why can we revisit um item number 87. are we not changing the motion or you just want to speak on it just want to speak on it no you have the floor
 You have the floor. I just want to thank Dr. Faresi for the resolution. I think each one of us are very sensitive to this time of year. Pastor Al spoke and prayed regarding our children.
 who are our most valuable asset. I know Nolan gave us an update that by the end of the week that most of the school zones should be striped in those things, which is very, very important. This council has stood very much for that. And so we know this is going to education, but I want to thank him for the resolution. Just give an update to our residents. Those things will be happening, but most importantly, please pay attention to the markings regarding schools and our children.
 We don't want to see a fatality. We want to see our children be able to get in that building and be safe even when leaving. So we have to be, as a community, sensitive to our children and when we enter school zones. Absolutely. Thank you.
 All right. Any announcements for your districts? Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil services, Tuesday, September 12, 2023 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil services, Tuesday, September 12, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, September 12 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday at 2 p.m. We sent the contracts to committee.
 All righty. Any announcements for your districts? All right. Saying none. I don't know. I'm just kidding. Councilman White. I want to invite the residents of the University District to our quarterly breakfast, which is going to be taking place this Saturday at St. Lawrence Church from 9 to 12. We have a lot on the agenda, so we hope that everyone will call the office at 851-5165 and register. And that's it.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Our district is next Thursday, the 14th from 4 to 7 p.m. It's a great event. It's free food. It's a great chance for a district to get to know the person. That's Thursday, the 14th from 7 to 5 p.m. is growth.
 All right. Any others? All right. Hearing no others. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Mitchell P. Nowakowski.