It is good to be back in the month recess. I went away for three weeks to work on writing my doctoral dissertation. City Hall seems so easy in comparison, Council President. It's an intriguing time that we have. If I finish my dissertation by October 31st, which is Debbie's birthday, I'll graduate next May 3rd, 2019, which is my 65th birthday. So it would be an unusual birthday present, Mr. Golombek and Mr. Bronsak and some of you in education, to actually get the doctorate on my 65th birthday and then use my Social Security to pay off my student loans. So it seems especially appropriate, and Debbie's telling me I have to get it done. So I think that's a mandate. The scripture that I want to share with you today is simple. I was writing about it actually in the dissertation, say at 5812. Your people will rebuild the ancient ruins and will raise up the age-old foundations. You'll be called repairer of broken walls, restorer of streets, as well. There are four action words there, rebuild, raise up, repair. I know for those of you on the console, there are times that the issues you deal with are reactive. But the prophet Isaiah suggests that there are to be proactive opportunities, times that we take and advance the agenda, that we change the discussion, that we set and reset community atmosphere and expectation. I love those words that he used, to repair, to rebuild, to restore, to raise up. I want to pray today for the council for our first session back in September, that these will be proactive opportunities, that each of you will be given creative ideas and thoughts for the better Buffalo, so that it will be rebuilt and restored in the day to day. Father, thank you so much for your grace and favor on the council today. Thank you for your love for this city and the citizens. Lord, as I was reflecting on this scripture and writing about it and pondering it, It seemed so appropriate to us, the ones who are helping to lead the rebuilding effort. But Father, when you slide your shoulder under our weakness, something we're strong again. I pray for your strength today to be imputed and to eat consulment. Let there be proactive opportunities. I pray a vision that comes higher, a vision that comes higher, greater. Bishop Malone knowingly returned Father Art Smith back to ministry after Bishop Kimmick removed him for inappropriate behavior with a minor and he went so far then to write a letter of recommendation on behalf of Father Art Smith Stating and I quote I'm unaware of anything in the background in his background which would render him unsuitable to work with minor children yet two months later he described in a letter to the Vatican that Father Art's actions towards the eighth grade boy as grooming him. So he knowingly and repeatedly put children at risk at the hands of Father Art Smith. At a press conference on Sunday, August 26th, the bishop stated that now is the time for action. However, I would claim that the time for action would have been the moment he discovered any wrongdoing by any member of the clergy of the Diocese of Buffalo. not returning these priests to priesthood and to ministry, as I mentioned, where they were in close proximity to children and functioning in a manner where they were members of the community and viewed as members who could be trusted. At that same press conference, he almost glossed over the inappropriate behavior between one of the priests and some adults. And his statement that they were following the Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People to the letter of the law was almost laughable. It was outrageous, knowing that two days earlier he had learned of another accusation against one of these priests. The bishop's repeated failure to act, his failure to be truthful, and his failure to be transparent has destroyed his credibility. He's violated a sacred trust between himself and the 600,000 members of the Diocese of Buffalo, one of which I am. And again, this letter was not easy to write. However, it is not a request, it is not a demand. It is simply me as a member of the Catholic Church pleading with him to resign his post as the Bishop of the Diocese of Buffalo in what I can view as the only way for the diocese to move forward, to allow these people who have been victimized to begin to heal, knowing that those who have perpetrated these crimes are no longer around and those who have helped cover up these crimes are no longer around. So again, this is a plea on my behalf to the bishop to resign his post as soon as possible. Thank you, President Woodson. Council Member Franza? Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. This council, rare occasions and limited occasions, makes observations and comments about individuals or institutions which have a profound impact on the quality of life of our citizens, the people that live in the city of Buffalo. You know, there is undeniably, the Catholic Church has played a very deep role in a city which is so deep with its Catholic roots. You know, many of the immigrant communities that settled in Buffalo were Roman Catholic belief. And a lot of positive things were done in the education system, in the churches, in the shared culture, and people's spiritual life. But the council on rare occasions has pointed out if it feels an institution, regardless what that institution may be, has an impact that is not positive on the life of the city. Myself and Mr. Wumbach, I think we have to over 10 years ago were critical, and you were, Mr. Chairman, critical of the massive church closings that took place in the city of Buffalo that was not helpful to those neighborhoods. You're leaving people behind, people that wanted to worship, neighborhoods left with hulking edifices that were left behind. There was a clergyman that called it ethnic cleansing. I echoed that. And I recall Mr. Glomick and I met with a Franciscan priest when they wanted to close Corpus Christi. He was not at all sympathetic to what we had to say. So he and I were very severely attacked by the Catholic League, which is a national or international organization. Mr. Donahue was chairman, and he severely criticized us by name. because we had dared to say that posing of these churches would be very hurtful, very harmful, like the first Basilica in the United States, St. Adalbert, St. Anne's, etc., etc., St. Transfiguration, that is, and many others that would weaken our ability to represent in the Common Council. So the Council in the past has been spoken out. It doesn't say that everything the church has done is wrong or everybody in it is wrong. They've done many, many positive things. But this pedophilia issue is a completely different issue. And I think it's significant that there is silence. The diocese is silent. The Catholic League is silent because this is just a completely different, different phenomenon. I mean, the closing of the churches was hurtful, but the harming of children is something that's unforgivable to us. You know, this is something that where a child is violated. And so, you know, the church has to decide what kind of citizen it wants to be. It's been, the Roman Catholic Church has been around for 2,000 years. And you have to know all the machinations of how to survive for 2,000 years. You just don't survive for 2,000 years with all of history, surviving all the vicissitudes of history. You know, the church itself has gone through its own crises in the past. Some of these things have happened before. Pope Alexander VI was a pope who had three girlfriends. He had nine children with those girlfriends. He had two of them. Lucretia and Cesare, who he had sexual relations with, as well as with prostitutes. I mean, this was the pope. That has changed. But then you had men like St. Francis, for example, who gave up his wealth, who gave up all material things, and who went and lived with the poor, and worked with the poor, all the good done with the poor. So if this institution finds a way to survive, it has to go and look at the current pope, St. Francis, His name is Francis. That's a good role model. So we're not theologi- Well, the people here who are reverends know more about this than I do, or the average public, but I think you need to go to the better angels of what the soul of the church is. And the bishop has to do, I'm sure he's doing, he should do, he came here on this floor and gave a prayer. He has to search, he has to search himself. and decide how he's gonna, I mean this is an unprecedented, this has been going on for years, but it's just, it's incomprehensible what's happened, this kind of behavior. My sense would be, if I were running an operation like that, I would root and branch, I would just go from the ground up and rebuild the whole thing. Say we gotta go from scratch and rebuild the whole thing based on what their values are. So with Mr. Scanlon's letter, This council is now showing, it's showing it again today, it showed it before, that if there is some phenomenon, something that is harmful to citizens of the City of Buffalo, this body does not shy away from rising to the occasion and And by the way, none of the ministers here know as much history as you do So I'm gonna tell you make well maybe comes from a Revere, but I will not pretend that I knew all of that history Thank you both for your comments sensitive subject next 112 US Department housing section 3 complaint. I Motion to send to MWB committee second my customer front and and 113 proposal adopt chapter 346 motion to send legislation items 113 and 114 my customer front Santa petitions 115 special use for it 153 Elmwood motion census legislation and city planning board items 115 through 119 second my customer friends at item 120 petition for four-way stop at elk and Babcock intersection motion is sent to the CD and DPW. Second by Council Member Golombet. Committee, Civil Service, Item 1, appoint Assistant Auditor. Motion to approve Item 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 1, 2, 3, 4. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 5, appoint Communication and Community Relations Assistant. Motion to receive a file 5 and 6. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, appoint Junior Data Control Clerk. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temp. Finance Committee, Item 8, request approval of certificate adjusted base proportions. Oh, that adjusted base proportion is approved as well as item number nine. Second by Council Member White. Item 10, permission to adopt holiday lighting policy and enter into holiday lighting attachment agreement. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 11, seasonal employees benefit eligibility audit. 11 and 12 with no objections. Motion now to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Glumbet. Community Development, item 13, Amherst Town Clerk, Zoning Board of Appeals, public hearing. Motion to receive in file 13 and 14. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, request to purchase vacant lot 71 Longnecker. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 16, Louisiana Street Railroad tracks. Motion to receive in file 16 through and including 24. Second by the Majority Leader. Legislation Committee, item 25, special use permit 26 military. there are no objections motion to approve items 25 and 26. what was your motion mr president uh number 25 and 26 motion to approve 25 25 the 26 military uh industrial artisan motion to approve and 26 sidewalk cafe rec room approved i have corporation i council speech at 25. Oh, did you want that? Does it need a seeker? I'm sorry. So we should recommit that. I apologize. All right. So we didn't second it. So let's call the item again. 25. Because the seeker needs to recommit. So 25 is to recommit, seconded by the majority leader. Item 26, sidewalk cafe license. That one is approved. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item 27, used car dealer 780 Walden. That's deny with the reasons enunciated by the district council member. Councilman, the second by Councilmember Fontana who has the floor to give a brief. This is the old extermination building at Walden and St. Mary's. Essentially the display area would be in the front yard. Next door to a lady's house. That's a very nice homeowner there And I refuse to do that to that individual if a judge wants to overturn me He could explain to her why she needs cars in front lawn I don't think a judge is going to do that however. I did speak to the individual And I don't think they should have ever come forward to begin with, so we're asking the Commissioner of Inspections to give him a refund on his license fee. He gave us $300. I would have told him no right from the start on this one because it's just not a proper space for a car lot. So he's agreed not to put the car lot there, understanding my point, and we've agreed hopefully to give him a refund. So the motion is to deny, but we also want to make sure we treat the customer fairly and hopefully return his money. All right. So if we could put that in the motion. To give the commissioner some cover, I wouldn't mind that if we could deny and then return the fee. If that could be the motion, and if it works legally, it works legally, I'm fine with that. So why don't we find that out? Because I don't know if that then starts to set precedent. and we might have that at every meeting. So can I ask that we recommit it so we can find out legally what can happen here? I'm fine with that. Would that be motion to recommit? Motion to recommit. Well, motion to rescind. Rescind, deny. The denial, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt, and now motion to recommit. Now to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. That way we're solid legally enough. I'm fine with it. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. I'm sure the neighbor appreciates it. Next item. Item 28, ordinance member chapter 437, taxi cabs, liveries, sightseeing buses. 28, motion to receive and file. There will be a new item filed on this. Okay. That's on which number? 28. Is it receive and file? Receive and file. All right. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 29, property managed license. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 30, used car dealer license 1575 Broadway. Motion to deny because they're operating without a repair license and there is pending litigation on this. So they're operating right now? They're operating right now without a license. Yeah, and I've got a couple in Ellicott that I think are operating without a license because their pending license is sitting in one of the committees. I rolled past the other day and they were doing business so good. Exactly. People should know you got to get the license. You can't just get a building and open up. Good. Exactly. Seconded by Councilmember, uh, Golombet. Item 31, PAL obtaining towed vehicle. Uh, if there are no objections, motion to receive and file items 31 through and including 34. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scandal. Resolutions, item 121, fee waiver for community engagement event. Motion to approve. Second by Councilman Columbus 122 BMH a micro purchasing review motion to send the finance second by Council member Fontana and just I noticed is going to finance, but I want to make my comments from caucus public. BMH a receives money every single week out of their rents. They not only receive money from people, they receive money from the government. And at the end of the day, I don't believe that this council, at the end of the day, should be spending taxpayers money to do audits on BMHA where we do not have a voice. There is a board for BMHA and the board from BMHA, if BMHA does not have internal auditing and they have a board, Let that board do its job and have that board spend the money. But I don't want to take money that could be going the streets and sidewalks, that could be going to neighborhoods, that could be going into different places for an agency that has a board just like ours. They need to do what they have to do. If the controller feels that they need to have those, I don't have any problem with it. I said it earlier, I'm 1,000% with him. At the end of the day, though... The same way this body cannot go into the Board of Education and make policy, we cannot make policy at the BMHA. And the people who are there, their feet should be held to the fire at the end of the day. But I do support this resolution of bringing in someone. It's in front of us, but I don't want to see us spend city taxpayer dollars on on their failure, if it is a failure, to have an internal auditing component. That's my thought. Council Member Fontana. Thank you. And I appreciate the support for the resolution. The resolution is calling on the intergovernmental cooperation between us and the BMHA, the Board. You mentioned a voice. Well, I haven't heard too much of a voice coming out of the BMHA. They haven't been making the paper much as far as the Board themselves. All right. Thank you. I invite the residents to attend the theater. I'm sure, what do we have? And they know a pair of set don'ts.