4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pritchard. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. We move to the flag of the United States of America.
 with a religious stance, one nation, and the indivisible, with liberty and justice. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President. So in a true confession moment, I was just sharing with Council Member Bowman the week that when I came online during the Zoom call, I had shorts on instead of
 my regular address as i come today and i thought i was fine and covered until i stood for the pledge so uh i've gotta tell you it's good to see you back fully uh involved in person again welcome back historically september 1st is one of my favorite days of the year start of fall weather about to be the beautiful fall weather we all enjoy the rhythms that start returning vacations over back to school back to work
 But fall 2020 is unlike any fall we've faced in the history of our lives, our districts, our city. It's not just us nationally, internationally, the fear, the uncertainty. You all have huge financial decisions to make, justice issues that are being drawn to our attention nationwide, business, education fall out like we've never known in my lifetime for certain. And where will it end? We don't know. How will it end? I'm not sure.
 But my two biggest favorite words, but God. I was having a wonderful discussion with Majority Leader a few minutes ago. Ten years ago at this time, we were together on the west side of Buffalo on Jersey Street. And that was a day that a friend of all of ours, Delia Roman Knox, who'd been in a wheelchair for more than 20 years, was healed. And we got to watch her walk up those steps into Mom and Dad's arms on the west side of Buffalo.
 It was what many of us would call a pretty remarkable miracle, and it played out in your district. It was exciting and amazing. And it reminds me that the reason we press into faith at difficult seasons is because, although I don't know what's to come, I know someone who does know what's to come. And he's able to do more than I understand, expect, know, or get my hand around, but he just waits for us to tag him in.
 The scripture that I want to give you is from Lamentations chapter 3. It says, My soul is downcast within me, yet this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope. Because of the Lord's great love we're not consumed, for his compassions never fail. They're new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. Would you bow with me in prayer? Amen.
 Father, thank you for your word. Thank you that even today, Councilmember Rivera, the Majority Leader, and Deb and I were able to remember and celebrate that memory of that day 10 years ago.
 Lord, there's all kinds of need that these council members have personally, professionally, our city. There's a desperation. And Lord, you know that in our neighborhoods, in our districts, up and down streets, schools and businesses, so much uncertainty, so much hurt and pain. And then the grief of those who've buried loved ones during this outbreak.
 But Father, in the midst of all that, your faithfulness is great. We celebrate it together today. And as that day 10 years ago, we reminded the God that you are, remind each of us today as decisions – important, critical, crucial decisions – are to be made, that you're simply willing to help us walk through times we've never seen before.
 Give us and grant us supernatural wisdom through you, we ask in your son's name. Amen. Council members memorials. Council member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. Buffalo took it on the chin this past week with the passing away of Cliff Robinson, Riverside High School graduate. I went to school with Cliff.
 I remember driving him home. I can't remember if he lived on Schoollier Shelf Street, but I remember on numerous occasions driving him home after basketball practice. He was, I believe, a freshman or a sophomore of the year. I was a senior. And I got to know him a little bit and followed his career. And we were on the Riverside High School alumni page and things like that. Now, I haven't seen him for many, many years.
 But I think it was right before I got elected, it was in the late 90s or just after I got elected, the last time I briefly ran into him with some Riverside High School friends. But 53 years old, very young, and very sad, very tragic.
 But what a wonderful life and I think such an unsung hero in the NBA. I mean, I was looking at his statistics and I forgot how good he was until I was looking at the statistics and the all time statistics and I was like, my gosh. But he was just so unassuming in so many ways. And as I said to a couple of friends of mine from Riverside, and I think this is the greatest epitaph that someone can have.
 he was a good guy and he's going to be very sorely missed. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you Mr. President and I want to echo that I played with Cliff. I didn't play professionally with him. He was a nice guy but nasty on the basketball court but he was somebody who's going to be missed. He came from the east side and rose and made it to the NBA and we were very, very many of us were very, very proud because he was probably the one of the first ones
 of our generation that we knew. So my prayers go out to his family. Also chat with the actor. And I say that only because in this time of where we are today in our society, he meant something to young men about a superhero. And to hear his speech from Howard University was very inspiring because he encouraged us to speak out and to stand up. So my heart and prayers go out to his family, 43-year-old Pat
 that just sends a message to us as men to be responsible and make sure that we get that test. As well as the legendary coach John Thompson, and again, this is somebody who I respected because I respected what he stood for for our children.
 He was a strong advocate for inner city children. And we could not have had a stronger advocate for inner city children and caring about not only them being able to have a career in basketball, but for them to be able to have an education. He was a strong advocate. So we mourn the loss of those three individuals and what they meant to our country. Any other questions?
 We mourn the passing of Demetrius Robinson, who was also known as DJ Shay. He got several people from Buffalo signed with Jay-Z, and he had just moved to Atlanta. And unfortunately, he passed at an earlier age than expected, but he helped so many people
 young people in the music industry and so many people from across the country who contacted us to give condolences and he was buried at the True Bethel Church last week.
 in probably one of the most unique caskets that I've ever seen, a full glass casket. I'd never seen that in my 55 years of living. But the public who was really, you could see the hurt because he helped so many people.
 We pause in these chambers for those names that have been said and for anyone who gave their life for the freedom of our country or any other country since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Council members, we're going to be pausing the meeting until we get an ovation. Do we have silence?
 So I was just informed that the beginning of our meeting so that the public who is watching will know There was some technical issues and the first the prayer Scripture and the memorials were not the audio was not playing to the audience But I had all intentions of pausing the meeting if there was no audio so that the public can still Hear what we are saying in our meeting. So I am informed that the sound is back and
 so we can start the meeting, but so that the public knows there was no business conducted when the audio was off. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on July 21st, 2020 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Thank you.
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as it is before us. And just again, a note to the public, our council meetings will continue to be live to the public over the internet on the platforms that we were on. And as the science changes...
 At this point, we do not have the public in the chambers, and usually at a council meeting, the public does not speak in the chambers during a council meeting. So that we are not limiting the public when it comes to committee meetings, those meetings will be virtual and online. Because we didn't want, if they wanted to be a speaker or needed to be a speaker on something, that we could not bring them in the chambers.
 So that is what we're doing to keep the transparency and to keep the public informed and to do what our duty is, is to hold our meetings in public. So thank you and welcome back, council members. And I should say this, that this is by the science.
 If something were to happen where there was some type of outbreak in City Hall or numbers go up, this is fluid. So this doesn't mean this will always be. Something could occur that we would have to give public notice of the all virtual meeting. And let's pray that it doesn't. All right. From the top. Item number one, declaration of state of emergency. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombik.
 Item number two amend designated developer agreement for 321 Olympic motion to send the CDs by councilmember wing Item number three Buffalo Hall all suites and roadie house Broadway market lease motion to approve items three through six second by councilmember Wyatt item number seven lease agreement between City of Buffalo and Hamlin Park Community and Taxpayers Association I'm not clear if we comes remember I
 We are going to receive and file this because we need to submit a version of this that has already been executed by Corporation Council, the City of Buffalo, and Hemlock Park Taxpayer Community Association. So we will receive and file this. They will file the executed version today for next council session.
 mr chairman i just want to make sure clear that we don't have to approve each item individually like we did in the past or no we we don't because we're in chambers correct corporation yes sir thank you for asking that for clarification so the motion uh by the majority leader is to receive a file second by councilmember wingo
 Item 8 local landmark 348 Austin but this item is going to legislation hearing date is going to be September the 8th Councilman, Columbia just to clarify we the hearing will not be in September 8th We'll set the hearing date on September 8th Item number 9 permission to designate developer NCC seventh-day Adventist motion to send the CD second by councilmember Bowman
 Item number 10 permission to grant utility easement to National Grid Niagara Mohawk motion to approve items 10 and 11 second by councilmember fear a little item 12 report of sales 604 Norfolk motion to send the legislation second by councilmember Nowakowski item 13 report of sales 6369 center motion to approve second by councilmember Nowakowski. I
 Item 14 appoint real estate maintenance supervisor motion to send the civil service second by president pro temp Scanlon Item 15 five-year capital debt plan 2021 to 2025 motion to send the finance Items 15 through 19 second by councilmember Wyatt who has the floor Thank You. Mr. President I just want to speak just a moment on item number 15 and I
 the plan of increasing the amount of capital debt we're going to take on. And I know it's going to committee and I'll speak more about it then, but I would hope that we have the control board to be involved in this conversation because this is the type of stuff that's gotten us to where we are. I just can't imagine that we're going to increase the amount of capital debt from 20-something million to 32 million next year when we don't know what next year holds. We don't know what tomorrow holds.
 So why are we looking at increasing the amount of debt or a purchase of debt capital expenditure when we are confused about what's going on right now? We don't know if we're going to get this stimulus money. We don't know if Mr. Biden is going to win. That may help us. We don't know. So for us to put anything out there that's not conservative and fiscally responsible is irresponsible. So I just want to put that out there because, and I'm hopeful, I want staff to make sure
 that the control board is a part of this conversation because I want to make certain we're clear on, is this irresponsible? I believe it is, but I want to get their input on that because I just couldn't believe that something like this was submitted during this time when we are facing fiscal peril and we don't know what tomorrow holds, but we're saying we're going to go boldly into that dark night. I think it's unacceptable. Thank you. And it will be in committee. Anyone else? All right. Next item.
 Item 20, Buffalo Fire Department interior improvements at various locations. Motion to approve items 20 through 37. Noting that item 26 is with conditions. Item 26 is with conditions? Yep. Those were the conditions that we talked about that they believe that this contract couldn't be executed unless the contractor is meeting the requirements. That's correct. Okay.
 all right second by council member bowman item 38 food store license 62 east amherst aka 72 east amherst motion to send the legislation uh second by council member wingo item 39 food store license one marine drive motion to approve second by council member noah kowski item 40 food store license 442 william motion to send the legislation second by council member columbia
 Item 41, Mobile Food Truck 7 Yum 6. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White. Item 42, Sidewalk Cafe 523 Main Street. Motion to deny. So the motion is to deny, and for the record, it's because the applicant has withdrawn the application. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item 43, Tire Handler License 1019 Clinton. Motion to approve Items 43 and 44. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 item 45 used car dealer 2687 bailey motion to approve with conditions second by council member fair council member white thank you mr president i just wanted to um as corporation council i know that there's conditions on this one and they should have been sent to you as well as on the city clerk
 Yes, it should have been sent to you. But I just want to go over a couple of them, if I could, Mr. President. This was a challenging situation because we had a business open, doing business, without the appropriate license. Somehow we need to put some legislation in place that there's a huge fine for that. This business has been operating for about a year.
 And when I approached the individual who, well, his partner, I got a bunch of lies. There should be some type of penalty. There should be some type of fine. And I'm not talking about a $20 fine, a $30, a $100. It should be a significant fine. Because this individual is operating without a license. Then when I go to talk to him, first of all, no, he's disrespectful to the community. My block club leader went to him to talk to him about what's going on. He basically told her to get lost.
 And so I want to make it clear to anybody that wants to do business in the university district, you disrespect my residents, you will not be in business because that's the first principle. Number two, have your paperwork in order. And this has been a problem in my district for a while, this corner, these used car dealerships
 We've got to get a handle on them. Thank you, Vince Veracchio, for being a sounding board and being very clear in letting this businessman know what we're expecting as a city and as a council. Because this guy just thought he could just give us all these lies about I've got a business here and I've got a business there. Don't know that. We can figure out all that.
 So again, the conditions for this particular license is number one, you will respect my community. Any business or any individual that comes and asks questions respectfully, you should be willing to respond to them.
 Number two, there cannot be any cars in the city right of way because we've had this constant problem where they put these cars on the sidewalk thinking that that's part of their business. Your business is behind your fence. Keep your cars behind there. Number two, there will be no work before 8 a.m. and there should be no work after 8 p.m. because people should not have to deal with the noise and the traffic.
 And I got some information from the police department that there are some used car dealerships that are using their business as a front to do other things. Well, if I can condense the time that they're operating, and it's reasonable, then hopefully we can condense that. But I hope that this applicant will be responsible. We had a face-to-face conversation. He seemed to be amenable to what I was requesting. So I don't think it's unreasonable that if the community comes and asks a question about your business...
 That's your answer. They didn't say shut it down at 10 o'clock or something that's outside the bounds. They asked for something reasonable. So those are a couple of the things that I want to make sure that it's clear. But if anybody wants to do business in the university district, they better know very clearly if you don't respect the community, you will not have a business. Thank you. Yeah, the used car lots. And, you know, we've had problems. Lovejoys have problems.
 And some of that, I think you should look into legislation. That's what we do. That would in some way, I don't know if there's already anything on the book. If it is, it probably isn't being enforced. And so you might wanna look at that and even move up the cost of the enforcement because it can really affect a community so negatively. So, good.
 And this business could have been denied. Yeah. And you didn't. We'll revisit it. Good. All right. That was seconded by Joe Fieroletto. Item 46, used car dealer license 1019, Clinton. Motion to approve with conditions. All right. What number are we on? 46. 46. All right. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 47, used car dealer 668, Williams.
 Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions that will be submitted by the district council member. Council member Nowakowski is the second. Item 48, used car dealer 1261 Hurdle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. It must be used car dealer season. Is everybody waiting? There's a lot of used cars out there. Next item. Item 49, 2020-2021 Burrius Sub Recipient Agreements. Motion to send to finances. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item 50 Buffalo firefighter retirement incentive program motion to approve items 50 through 54 second by The president pro Tim Scanlon item 55 Commission on citizens rights and community relations Motion to send the CD second by councilmember, Columbia item 56 approval of issuance and sale of BMH a's Capital Fund housing revenue bonds motion to send finance second by councilmember white item 57 liquor license notices a
 Motion to receive and file items 57 through 59. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item 60, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 60 through 63. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 64, duty to intervene memo. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 65, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairlittle.
 item 66 seeker negative declaration motion to send the legislation second by council member furlough item 67 new playground in old first ward community motion to send the cd second by council member scam item 68 police reform recommendations motion to send police oversight
 Item 69 regarding district academies for withdrawn students motion send education So my council member for low item 70 incident with BPD and Erie County DA Motion is sent police oversight second by a councilmember white item 71 violations of the city's apprenticeship law Motion to send the CD so my councilmember what item 72 perk for New York's richest areas This items open
 councilmember why okay um if can we send this to education well we should send the education thank you second by councilmember boy item 73 special use permit 1221 Lovejoy motion is sent to legislation City Planning Board items 73 through 90. second by President pro Temp Scala civil service item number one appoint laborer one oh civil service
 Civil Service motion is to approve items one two and three second by councilman Bowman legislation letter regarding state legislation for Buffalo Police Department residency motion to receive and file second by council member Wyatt item 5 Buffalo Academy of Science charter school renewal denial motion to receive a file second by councilmember Wyatt item 91 naming Nikola Tesla Park motion to adopt the resolves remainder to CD second by councilmember Bowman I
 Item 92 appoint Jelena Hill to the bicycle and pedestrian Advisory Board motion to that second by councilmember No, Koski item 93 out of and moratorium on 485 a approvals motion to adopt the resolves remainder to legislation items 93 and 94 second by councilmember no Akoski who has the floor. Did you want to councilmember go on that person?
 Thank you, Mr. President. In regards to item number 94, the draft of duty to intervene law, I just want to clarify a couple of things. Do we have a law in front of us as of right now to vote on? No, we do not. Okay. And the reason I asked that, and I knew the answer to that was no, on the...
 Well, there's been a group of people that have been going around and, quite frankly, lying publicly and stating people's positions that are completely disingenuous. If you listen to the July 28th Legislation Committee meeting, at about the 49-minute mark, I believe my exact quote was, I support or I agree with the concept of this law.
 There was no law in front of us. So, you know, my position was that until the law is in front of us, I can't give the final definition, but I support and agree with the decision and with this Council and with you, Mr. President, to have a duty to intervene law in front of the City of Buffalo. You know, unfortunately, people put misinformation out there, and I ended up spending last night a couple several hours
 with friends that called me and said, well, geez, I thought you supported that law. And I said, well, I did. And I ended up sending them. I said, take a look at item or at the 49-minute mark of legislation and so on and so forth. But I think if I'm not mistaken that you had, I think,
 unanimous support, once again, for the concept of the law when we discussed it. And so, you know, when people put things up on social media, Facebook, et cetera, and they lie, you know, it's unfortunate. It's very unfortunate that somebody would put something up there because people don't look into the actual truth of the matter. I wonder how many people looked at that legislation meeting at minute 49 to find out what Golombak's position really is,
 or do they trust somebody that you know throws something up there and accuses people of having positions uh... that they don't have been asked the publicly right now you know my position for the duty to intervene law has not changed since only last spoke about this at the end of july i support the concept i support uh... uh... the duty of an officer to intervene uh... i think that that's part of his or her job you know
 support the law of the United States, of the city of Buffalo. And that means that if there is something that's happening that's illegal and it's a police officer that is doing the illegal act, the other police officer has a duty to intervene. And I support clarifying that and codifying that into law. I just want to make that public and
 and share that so that, you know, I doubt that there will be an apology from social media that somebody lied, quite honestly. But I want people to know where I stand and what my position is. Thank you. Well, I do remember the discussion. And I think I even said because every council member during that discussion said that they agreed with basically the concept. There was no law in front of us. There is no law in front of us. And I
 What we just did, and even a media outlet was confused that I talked to today because there was this thought that there was a law in front of us. So I want to clarify what was in front of us. We had constituents send a draft law and submit it to the council. That's not the process. We accepted it so that we can look at what the constituents suggested.
 The process for the law is it must be drawn up by the council, basically through our corporation council. Actually, a council member could draw up a law, but only lawyers, Joe. So I don't think he practices government law. So if you're not injured, Joe couldn't draw up the law. Council Member Fairletter couldn't.
 So it usually goes through our corporation council, which we have just voted on now, to have our lawyer write up a law, draft a law. It then will come back. We're asking for this to be rather rapid. There's a date in the resolution. Comes back to the council.
 It then must not by our choice. We can't go against the process. It then must age if the council votes for it to go to committee. It ages for two weeks. It goes to committee. The public can be heard on it and then it comes back for a vote. Did I say that all the way? Correct.
 All right. Our attorney has said it. So the public, and I can see where some people may have gotten confused when we had that draft law in front of us thinking that we were voting on the draft law that didn't come from City Hall. So I think it's important to clarify. But what I heard was a unanimous from all council members and I even announced that. Anyone else? Thank you for that. Did you, Councilmember Scanlon?
 thank you council president I wanted to address item number 93. say it again I wanted to address item 93. oh absolutely motion to revisit item 93. um I'd like to be recorded in the negative on this item but I want to be very clear it is not because of the intent behind it uh more so more or less a um from the legal side and a bit of um
 the legal argument behind it. I spoke with the sponsor of the legislation, and I applaud Council Member Nowakowski and his effort to ensure that real estate developers are not skirting the initial intent of the 485A tax program. We've seen it in the past where they take a small portion of a project and because they've done X, Y, and Z to it, they now qualify for the program. And again, I believe they are skirting the intent of,
 that legislation but I you reading this resolution and you start talking about a moratorium on a state program I'm not sure if we can do that legally and so for that reason I just want to be recorded in the negative but again and I told council member Noah Kowski this is while moving forward I'm 100% on board in supporting him and making sure that we have a tax incentive program that is actually doing what it was originally intended to do
 thank you sir councilmember nowakowski um i would like to piggyback off that you know i really appreciate uh having a a good conversation with councilmember scanlon because he does raise um a good point and i think in order to make sure that this is robot robust and completely um done to the fullest extent it should be done is you know i would like to send the remainders adopt today and send the remainders to ledge
 and also read a resolved, I would like to add a resolve to the resolution, to require Corporation Council to consider an amendment to all City of Buffalo local laws in reference to 485A. So if we have to circle back to make this, you know, full in effect by amending a local law, we should do so because this is, you know, really trying to stop the issuance of a tax breaks that's been known to subject to abuse. And New York State has...
 um you know recognize that and changed its current form um for to be effective january 1st and if they you know agree that it's not appropriate um and it's subject to abuse the city of buffalo should also agree as well because this is tax money that's in the city of buffalo and although we might not necessarily generate tax revenue right now we know that we're going to be in turbulent times and turbulent budgets for future years and right now the way that this is issued is a hundred percent tax break for eight years
 100%. That's a lot of money. And that's, you know, my residents in the Fillmore District, they don't get a tax break for investing in their properties. And that really takes the tax burden and shoulders it to everyday residents that are paying our tax levy, and while we're giving away tax breaks to developers, and it's not right, and I would
 I would like to, you know, just make sure that this is, you know, fully bulletproof and followed up with an ordinance amendment in the coming council. So thank you. Absolutely. Councilman Ferraletto. Thank you. I just want to say I'm happy that this is being brought up now because for the past several years, we've heard from state some state legislators and other groups.
 blame the city and criticize this body for state legislation that the state legislature passed and the state legislature had the authority to change it at any time. So I'm happy that Council Member Nowakowski brought this up. It's nice to see the state do something about it instead of criticize this body or other departments in this building. And it's
 important to look at everything and I think once I think we should have another conversation about this in the future when it's in committee to take a look at see what the state actually did and see if maybe we could send some recommendations or not I know one item to participate for this to the project had to spend I forget the minimum amount of money but it had to be at least a couple I think it was at least a couple hundred thousand dollars to do it so it
 big developer spending half a million or a million dollars would get these incentives, but a small commercial storefront on Hurdle or Grant or Fillmore that may only be spending a
 $100,000, which $100,000 is a lot of money to spend, but they wouldn't be able to get this tax break. So I hope the state legislature addressed that, but maybe we can get a copy of the bill when it is in committee, and if we have other suggestions that are common sense,
 we could possibly vote on resolutions to help the everyday person in the everyday people that are helping our communities and our vibrant streets and send a message to the state legislature that they should not be forgotten thank you you put it very well councilmember why can i be added to this one pardon me i'd like to be added to this add councilmember wyatt to the resolution i'd like to be added as well add councilmember vera to the resolution
 add councilmember bowman to the resolution add councilmember pritchard to the resolution add councilmember um i i i may have to be careful in my comments because i think there is some litigation that i'm is there still litigation about 45a concerning a project in ellicott okay so let me i can comment the reason i'm supporting this and and councilman fairletto said it you said it
 There have been projects, for instance, in Ellicott that I did not feel qualified, should have qualified for this. But because of the way the legislation was written, I had no choice because it was explained to me. This is what it says. And here's the letter of the law. And this counsel did pass. I believe that it did go to court and some things happened. I never wanted it to come back up in court. I felt like whatever the judge said, let it be done.
 And so I am glad that this is, that we're having this discussion whether we can or not, as Councilmember Scanlon said, and that's going to be important, but we'll let the public know. If we can't, then we do have to lean more heavily on our state people, our state representatives, because I just think that the way this is written now, it ties this council's hands and then it looks like we're being friendly to developers.
 and if we don't then if we don't follow the law they just go to court and the judge overturns it and we're we we have broken the law so i think this is very important and i i commend you in in following that councilman fair letter then councilmember revere and i just wanted to add to what you were what you were saying when projects that apply for 485a exemptions go to the city they go to the city assessment office and apply
 It's not the council has zero discretion on it The council never votes on any project if they should get this exemption or not get this exemption so I just think that's very clear to point out because we There's never a determination by this body if a project should receive it or not It's dictated by the state law that the assessment office is
 either gives it to them or doesn't based on following the state law and we don't have any say in it very good point councilmember riviere thank you very much mr chair i have met with our state representative regarding uh this and they asked the city of buffalo um to change it or to opt out um
 It's state law. It's up to them to change it, amend it. And I'm glad to see come January 1st, it's going to be amended. However, we have four months in between that this resolution has an impact on. And there is another solution to this for these four months. If we can't do this, is the city should just opt out for four months.
 It's the administration in the city of Buffalo, not the Common Council, that opts in or opts out. So if you want for four months, we're going to opt out of this because we're going to have new legislation. And there are too many loopholes in this law right now that developers are going to try to run in the next four months to take care of.
 if they know there's four months before the new law comes into effect we better get in there so the city can say hey for these four months we're going to opt out and so that's another solution to this problem is just opt out of it until the new law takes effect the if the city and i know i'm putting you on the spot but you don't have to answer it today if you don't because it's going to committee but we are we are approving this
 If the city opted out, who would make the decision to opt out? Are you aware of that answer? Okay. So I think if we had that for the committee meeting and then to know, and then if this body has that option, I mean, to do that, and this body chooses to do so, I think that that's an option. Good. Anybody else? Did I miss anybody? All right. Thank you, sir. Next item. Okay.
 Item 95, Incident on Hartle Ave with Peaceful Protesters. Motion to adopt the resolves remainder to CD for both items 95 and 96. All right. Anybody? All right. Next item. And by the way, on this 95, I want to be clear that this is not an accusation against police.
 public has seen some picture seen a picture with a man with a knife and the public is asking did an officer see it but i do want to and i think uh councilmember fear letter and i talked earlier the protesters who were very peaceful
 and who really, I think, handled themselves well. The District Councilmember who has publicly spoken about it, and thank you for that, standing up with those protesters, Councilmember Ferraletto, and saying, you handled yourself well. They didn't pull out knives, they didn't do the same thing, so, you know, the peaceful protests, they go a long way, especially in the City of Buffalo, but the two people who are accused are not
 from the city of Buffalo they are not from North Buffalo so I think it's important that the right information be out there next item item 97 ordinance amendment chapter 175 fees motion to approve items 97 and 98 second by President pro temp Scanlon item 99 commissioner of deeds motion to adopt second by Councilmember wingu
 Item 100 the city's COVID-19 related spending. This is a late file referred to University District Councilmember, Mr. Chair.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I would like this to be adopted and sent to the rest of the finance. Depending on what may happen over the next couple of months, we may come into some dollars to assist us or we may not. But in the meantime, we should at least know what those costs are. We should have those details. So if something does happen, we know how to allocate the dollars.
 I don't think that we should be going blindly once we get this money as if we get this money as if it became Christmas and we forget about everything else. We want to assign those dollars appropriately as they relate to those areas in which we were charged an expense that we didn't expect.
 we should put those dollars back in, as well as there's other things that we should be doing that relate to that. And also making sure that we are putting ourselves in a better footing going forward, because we've been –
 not really very focused on making sure that we present and we put some reserves already away um because this cold this pandemic is not going to be over anytime soon so we have to be proven with every single dollar we get um it's unfortunate right now that I have some major questions um regarding the information we're getting um as a former banker and an auditor you know when you saw one thing that was not correct you started questioning everything else
 And so I do have questions and I'm very, very, very concerned about the information we're getting. So I want to get things in writing so that it's not any speculation. It's not anything that you told me. I want to be able to compare that information with a general ledger or something that states that this is exactly what it is because too many times.
 In these chambers, we get misinformation. We're told something, then we find out it's not totally true. So at this point in time, I think that it's appropriate for us to know where we are as far as COVID-related expenses. So there is no question to where our financial failures have been and where we've been impacted by COVID. It's not a speculation. It's a matter of fact, because numbers don't lie. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Council Member Golomba. Thank you.
 I can't access my computer, so I haven't been able to see the late file. Could somebody read the resolves for me so that I know what I'm voting in? Let's read the resolves into the record. Is somebody here from the clerk's office? Who's here from the – is anybody here from the clerk's office? I mean, not clerk's office. Council staff? You have them? All right.
 You can read it. Okay. Resolved that the City of Buffalo Common Council request admin finance submit all data year-to-date to the Common Council regarding the City COVID-19 related spending and directs the City Clerk to forward copies of this resolution to the Administration of Finance, Audit and Control. Is that it? Yeah, those are the two. And what's the motion? I'm sorry.
 so the motion was that's the results and remainder to Finance okay you okay with that yeah I'm fine okay thank you all righty and uh again several of our council members we don't have computers so they're not they haven't updated and so we got it we'll read whatever we have to next item
 Item 101, Home Real Message. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item number 12? Yes, we may. Motion is to revisit item number 12, second by Council Member Golombi. This item is before. Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. I would like to rescind the motion to send this to legislation.
 All right. Motion is rescinded. Motion to rescind the previous motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion is to approve. Motion is now to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. So that was 604, no 4. All right. Announcements.
 Announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 at 1 o'clock p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, September 8th, 2020 at 2 o'clock p.m.
 All right, council members, any announcements for your district? Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Again, I would like to announce that the Mastin District, we are much past stakeholder meeting number 50. I know we're almost at stakeholder meeting number 60, but we are literally trying our very best to ensure that the residents of Mastin District and the city of Buffalo know that we have these stakeholders meetings
 to disseminate relevant, pertinent information regarding the district. We don't just come and eat and have breakfast and have a great time fellowshipping with each other. We do.
 But that's not all that we do. We share information, we get updates on developments, and we also give out our newsletter that has pertinent information regarding some of the initiatives that are coming from the administration, that are coming from the comptroller's office, and some of the legislation and resolutions that we are working on right here in council chambers.
 make these announcements every other week so that if anyone should just happen to come to The council's webpage or they just happen to look at public access They do know that masson is making an effort to get the information out there it is impractical and unrealistic for any council member to knock on every door in their district and give them end of the individual
 A flyer that that I don't think is humanly possible and it would cost too much money. We cannot afford that
 So what we do is we make information available as frequently as possible for the most people to join in. We use Facebook, we use Zoom, we use the newsletter, we use public access, we use the city's website, and you can always call the office. And that goes for all of the council members. We all have these platforms for people to use to get information from us so that they can be informed.
 With that being said, with COVID-19 being, you know, keeping us home, essentially, we've been using social media to get information out. And we've also, in Madison District, instead of meeting together just to stay in compliance with the New York State regulations, as far as the guidelines are concerned for social distancing, we've come up with an innovative idea to have a drive-through stakeholders meeting.
 So, all that being said, you can still come to the Delavan Grider Center between the hours of 8.30 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. and still get a nice breakfast. You can still get our newsletter, still get flyers from various things, still get announcements from various developments from our staff.
 The next meeting will be September 12th, that Saturday, at 8.30 a.m. Come by, drive, get coffee and donuts, get a bag of fruit and good food, and get information. We also have bread from, I forgot where the bread comes from, but we have some good bread, too. So just come through and just drive. You don't have to stop long. Just come through, get your bag, and keep it moving. But the information is there for anybody who wants the information. Anybody who accuses...
 The Madison District, particularly, of not trying to get information now, hasn't tried to get the information. Because the information is there if you want the information. Just like an individual call and complaint about something that they are against, the information is there before and after their complaint. So I want everyone to know we're doing our very best considering what we're dealing with in these times.
 So kudos to all of the council members who've been working throughout. We've all been working throughout. We just haven't been here in council chambers. We've all been working throughout. I mean, we understand that there are some folks who are essential workers,
 who have to be at their job. It just so happened that we could do our job from home. Now we're here. So it is what it is. At the end of the day, we've been doing our job, and we're going to continue to do our job. Please call my office if you have any questions, comments, concerns.
 or suggestions, we are here for you. And thank you for the opportunity to make this long, drawn-out announcement. But I think some of those things just needed to be said so that folks do understand that we are making every effort to disseminate good information, good information, good information to the public. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other announcements? Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you, Council President. Gerard Place 2515 Bailey is teaming up with Feed More. They're hosting their mobile food pantry this Thursday, September 3rd at 1 p.m. For further details, you can call Gerard Place 897-9948. And then we also partnered at the Hennepin Community Center in Lovejoy. We have the UB Dental van parked outside for lunch.
 Monday through Friday for the rest of the month up until October 2nd and there'll be more details on my Facebook page. Thank you, sir.
 council member wyatt and then councilman um just want to invite the residents who are watching this um to our virtual community meeting which is going to take place wednesday on september 9th at 6 p.m you can access it on facebook on our university district page or my personal page so i just want to make sure that people know that we continue to try to get information out this will be our second third virtual meeting we will have chief carmen minza on as well as rashid mcduffie
 to our Corporation Council to talk about some of the legislation as it speaks to evictions. So it's a great meeting. It's a time for us to really, again, as Council Member Wingo mentioned, about getting good information out so that people are made aware of things that may impact them. I know we've been getting a lot of phone calls.
 regarding speeding atvs and things here's your opportunity here from the chief to see how they're dealing with it it's not an easy issue to address i know council member bowman is talking about some legislation regarding atvs because it's been a big big problem um so we continue to work even through this cold but that's our job that's what leaders do and i give a lot of credit and respect to my colleagues as we've all had to deal with this
 this pandemic in different ways, but we've dealt with it as leaders. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council member, Minkowski.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to announce that on this Thursday, September 3rd, starting at 1 o'clock at the Centennial AME Zion Church, located at 127 Doe Street, we will be having a community day where we'll be helping pass out food, voter registrations, connecting with health services and the census. This will be...
 partnered with Erie County legislator Howard Johnson of the 1st District and Pastor Bufford. And if you don't know Pastor Bufford, she's a bright light in Genesee Moselle. And come out, we'll be there.
 Well, I grew up Ami Zion, so I want to thank you for saying it correctly. Some people call it AIM Zion or say something different. So obviously you have done your homework, sir. True Bethel continues to feed. You can call the church at 895-8222. The pantry is open two days a week.
 We're feeding about 3,000 people, families a month right now, or 3,000 meals a month, but that is open to City of Buffalo residents, 895-8222. Any other announcements?
 All right, again to the public, our situation is fluid as far as our meetings. We will depend and we will watch the science and what is going on, but for at least the month of September, if the science allows.
 The council will have its council meeting with the council members here. Everything will remain virtual so the public is able to see it. And the committee meetings will be totally virtual as we deal and do our best to keep people safe.
 But, George, Council Member White. Mr. President, if I can just make one last announcement. There's still rapid testing taking place. And I want to leave this 1-800 number so that people can call this number. It's sponsored by New York State. Actually, I have to get a test today. It's 1-833-1833.
 697-8764. That's 833-697-8764. This is testing that's been taking place for the last couple of weeks as far as I know. No, just since for the last couple of days. Last couple of days. Okay. So if someone is interested in getting that test, they get their results within 15 minutes or 30 minutes. So I encourage people to get that test because I believe as of today...
 that your health care provider, from what I've been told, will not be paying for those tests. I'm not totally certain, but I know that the media outlets have said September 1st it would no longer be covered. So I know New York State is doing this right now thanks to our governor and his leadership, but this is an opportunity for people to get rapidly tested within a short period of time. And I don't know how much longer it's going, but if they can call today, they can get scheduled within their community.
 think tomorrow is the last day so uh wednesday is the last day because we have a testing site at the church all right motion to adjourn motion to adjourn second by councilman columbia