Here. Councilmember Kulobac. Here. Council President Pritchett. I'll keep. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Stanley. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember White. Here. Warren, present. I pledge to the flag and the city of Wichita, stay honest. I really enjoy the fact you all are here. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Al, you have a middle name? Al J. Warner. Thank you, Council President. Every so often we go through seasons that have impact on each of us. You know the rhythms and the seasons I'm sure that each of you have had in your lives. Over the last several days, Deb and I have had one of the challenging seasons where we have Thank you, Council President. stood at tiny caskets with young children who passed away. And that's been difficult and challenging for Deb and me. We were with a grandfather last night who was 10 months old and was then diagnosed with a deadly disease. And I know, Council President, you've buried way too many kids, and many of us have been at funerals or are walking out with friends or family really, really difficult, tough times. And it rips your heart out. As a pastor, I've done funerals for a lot of years, and at certain ages you celebrate their long life and accomplishments, but when they're that young, there's not much to celebrate, but you feel such pain and anguish with the parents and the family and all those that are hurt. And Devin, I've been sort of captured by that. Some of you may have felt the same thing. Some of you may have been caught up in the same kind of issues. And I looked in scripture that we used before from Zechariah chapter 8, talked about the young boys and girls playing safely in the street. And I think how a healthy city is a place where that can happen, where our next and our next and our next generation are protected. So school just started back, and we know lots of things that have happened in schools in the last several years. Neighborhood streets, and we know the things that have happened there. Illness, disease, premature death. So today I'd just like to lift up the next generation of those among us. And for those of you who are starting especially situations where there's life being threatened for the young, that God will give you encouragement and words to speak to families in Christ. Lord, I thank you that you are the God that as Jesus walked the face of the earth said to... the disciples who were trying to guard and protect him from distractions and distracting people you said no no let the kids come let the children and much to their consternation you wanted the children to be close to you so you could love and affirm and care for them i i thank you that you do the same thing for the children of buffalo today as deb and i have been in rooms recently with hearts broken as many here on the council as the council president as Lots of folks that will watch this past and they themselves are going through these situations. I pray that now, Lord, that you come alongside this generation, all the anointing they carry, all the value, all the promise that they carry. We declare that this will be a safe generation, a safe school year, a safe time for families. We pray that Children's Hospital will have wisdom as they deal with issues. We pray for breakthroughs medically and miraculously. And Lord, I pray even now that today, Buffalo will be known as the place where the children can play and enjoy streets in safety and joy. We thank you now for your presence during our deliberation and time together in your preciousness. Amen. Thank you, sir. Councilmembers and memorials. Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are mourning the loss of Carrie, Mrs. Carrie Lee Sumter, who is a long-time member of the Antioch Baptist Church. She lived to be 90 years young. On her sickbed, she had made a declaration that she was ready And I would pray that when I get to that stage in my life that I'll be ready as well. I think that's a show of strength and courage and faith in Mrs. Thumper. And we just want the family to know that she is in our thoughts and in our prayers. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member de Lombe. Thank you, Mr. President. Myra Lockwood, Chip Lockwood's mother, passed away. Chip owns some properties in the North District. He's one of the many, many good landlords that we have. On the one or two occasions when there's been issues that I've needed to talk to him, I've called him up and answered right away, but his mom, Myra, passed away. She's gonna be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends. Ken Herman passed away, was my neighbor a couple blocks from me, worked very closely with former Councilmember Bonnie Russell. Matter of fact, Bonnie called me over the weekend to let me know that he had passed away and I had already known, but I very much appreciated that. Ken is going to be very, very sorely missed by his wife, Mary Ann, and the rest of the Joseph Rigio passed away rather unexpectedly. They were active, he and his wife Kyram, in the block clubs over on Hartwell-Cecil Street area. Very, very good, solid guy. I feel very, very bad for the entire family. This one I missed, well this happened when I was on vacation, but Geraldine Piccolo passed away from Bains Avenue. Used to be in the North District, they used to be active in the Black Club when I was first council member. Over there, I know the daughter and some of the family members, but my condolences to them. Lottie Waldron passed away, Black Rock Grant Amherst resident. She was active in Eat Local. She was one of my lady friends. Whenever I would go to Eat Local, she would be one of the women that I would usually sit with, her and her daughter. It's sad, I mean, we knew that she was sick, but didn't know that she was that sick. And last, but certainly not least, not a North District resident, but an acquaintance friend of yours as well, Ariat, we knew him as AJ, Durham, passed away. A.J. was one of the guys that used to come down to the Crow on a regular basis. Many of you might remember A.J. I think that he was the supervisor at the post office when they were having the problems a few years ago with the dogs that were biting the letter carriers and he had come down here. I got to meet him over the past several years in just a a very very funny man. I would see him, I mean he was a regular Monday night football guy sometimes two, sometimes three nights a week he would come down to the Crow and it was always just a pleasure to be with him but he's going to be very very sorely missed by his family and his friends and especially us down at the Crow Club. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Scali? Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please all keep in our thoughts and our prayers retired Buffalo Police Department Captain Brian Strobel, who passed away very unexpectedly. Captain Strobel dedicated 32 years of his life to the Buffalo Police Department, and although he spent that much time on the force, was still only in his mid-50s. He's going to be terribly missed by his wife, his three daughters, and his council members. Absolutely. Anyone else? And of course, to our men and women who may have given their life since our last meeting for the freedom not only our country, but for the freedom of other countries since our last meeting, all of those names, we now pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have one special presentation by Councilmember Wyatt. Kensington Bailey, our stories, our neighborhoods. The purpose of this video project is to give a glance of Kensington Bailey's true character It will take an authentic look at the neighborhood from the perspective of the people who live, work, or visit the community, nestled in Buffalo's northeast corner. By reflecting on its unique history and place in the city of Buffalo, the citizens of the neighborhood hope to share their knowledge of the past, experiences of the present, and visions of the future. By telling their stories and sharing photographs, the residents of Kensington-Bailey hope to create a positive buzz and add to the western New York region as a whole. Hello, I'm University District Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt, and we're right here at Kensington and Bailey filming an historic film that will represent our community. Doris Corley, I'm the legislative assistant with Council Member Wyatt in the University District. And I also live in the Kensington-Bailey area. And we are filming the Kensington-Bailey Our Stories, Our Neighborhood project. And here's our stories. What makes this neighborhood unique? The Kensington-Bailey neighborhoods have highlights. They are located in the University District of the City of Buffalo in the city's northeast corner. It began in the early 20th century when many investors noticed the value of the farmland on the outskirts of downtown Buffalo, New York. there was as we stand here at kensington and bailey and all the activities that just seem to be emanating from this area you got through your your committee did a lot of interesting things got a lot of unique stories tell us about these stories well councilman we want to hear from a 96 year old resident who has been living in this area for a very long time good morning harold good morning thank you so much for consent to participate in this project And Harold, we know that you have, this has been a special place for you. How long have you lived in the Kensington Valley neighborhood? I'm 96, so I lived there 96 years. 96 years. That is really special. What did you find that was so special about this neighborhood? What do you remember this neighborhood? When I was a young boy, the people that I associated with, the youngsters, We're so nice. I mean, really. It wasn't like today where we've got gangs and shootings and all that junk. If you got mad at somebody, you knock them in the head. But that was the end of it. What makes this day? Thank you. He's a rock star in my mind and I thank him for playing a role. A lot of the pictures that we got were from him and his son. Thank you, son, for bringing his dad. But this committee, and I want to bring Doris Corley down because Doris who, you know, I don't think we normally do this, acknowledge our staff. But Doris and I were talking, and we were talking about the issues in our community. And one of the things she was very passionate about is sometimes you don't know the history. And so this came about from our conversation. And she is chairing a committee of individuals who were committed to this project. And I just want to bring that committee down, if you all will come down. And just thank you again for all the hard work. And I'm going to give the mic to Doris so she can acknowledge the people. But I want to talk about two people that, again, works for our staff, Dwayne Thomas and Jim Montour, who did the moderation. They did a fantastic job. And I know Jim – where's Jim at? He's hiding somewhere. But I want to thank them because they did it. Jim said he wanted to do some narration. He's always going to do it. And I gave him the opportunity. He did a fantastic job. Thank you, Jim. And I'll pass it over to the chairperson, Doris Corley, for her last comment. Thank you, Jim. Thank you, Doris. Thank you, Jim. Thank you, Doris. Thank you, Doris. Thank you, Doris. Thank you, everybody. I just want to say that the Kinson Bailey Historical Committee started last year, and it wouldn't have been able to be possible without the support of Councilmember Wyatt who is here and also folks who could not be here. We didn't think it was possible. And within a year's time, we were able to be successful with a video, not only a video, but we also doing some other activities in the area focused around with identify some of the areas in the community that are historic. And I'm just gonna pass the mic to Derek. So we were lucky enough to be awarded a Preserve New York grant to actually start doing some documentation of the historical resources in University District. And happy to announce that the consultants that we're working with will be putting forward a draft nomination for a new historic district in University District. So congratulations. Lots of awesome work and also just to say, you know, as a newer resident of the district, it's really the people who have made this community somewhere that I want to call home. And so to be able to preserve those stories, especially as someone who lost, you know, a dad early on, so many questions I would have asked him. So to actually be able to preserve those stories, those memories, I think that's really what this committee is all about. I just want to say thank you again to everyone. And also, I want to acknowledge the Buffalo Promise Neighborhood, who is part of this project as well. And Darren represents the University Heights Collaborative as well as the Tool Library. But the individuals who are here are those who have lived in this district for a long time, seen the history, and who have added greatly to the history. And we appreciate it. Thank you again. Thank you. And for our constituent who is at the top, because Chambers is not equipped to get them to the bottom. I'm happy to announce, I believe next month they'll start work. Starting next month behind me, there will be an elevator put in so that those who are not able to come down the steps will be able to go from the 12th floor straight down to the council chamber. So we hope to see you down here on your 90. How old are you now? 90. So we hope to see you down here on the floor on your 97th birthday because it'll take a few months and then that will be there. So. Councilmember, you have to invite him back on his 97th birthday or when the new elevator is in to help us to celebrate it. Okay. Great job, Councilmember. All right, I think we are ready to do the next part of people's business on a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon. The minutes of the board meeting held on September 14, 2018 are approved. The late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files that are before you? Seeing and hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda not in the order that is in front of you because we have several hearings but it would not take away your right to object to those items as they come to you if you have not had a chance we know we have a Chamber full because we have several public hearings to go through so we'll prepare Mr. Chairman motion to take following items in the following order. I Item 72, 25, 26, and 21. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item number 72 from resolutions, discharge items. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item number 25 in legislation, street name change. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to legislation. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FIERLA. ITEM 26 IN LEGISLATION NAMING 612 NORTHLAND. MOTION TO ADOPT AND RESOLVE THE REMAINDER TO LEGISLATION. I APOLOGIZE. I'M ON THE RESPONSE. ALL RIGHT. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRANTANA. ITEM 21 OUT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PUBLIC HEARING, 240-260 LAKE. MOTION TO OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FRANZEK. And this is the same one. So this item, lakefront, there was some information that was requested that I was informed last night is still not available. And so what I want to do is to reschedule this public hearing because I think it's so important when we have these type of questions that whether it's a council member of the public that we are able to adequately answer them so the office of strategic planning has asked that we would that they that we reschedule that meeting for lakefront and so the the residents who normally come have already been informed I hope no one is here all right good so we can close public hearing and then we already have the date No, we can recommit it. Motion to close the public hearing. Motion is now to recommit to CD. Just one second, I need clarity. How are we doing this for the new public hearing? It seems like we're just resetting the hearing. That's an order seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And do we have the date of the new public hearing yet? All right, then then we will make sure that it is public it is again notified to the public When we have the information on the appraisal next time from the top. We have another public hearing That was the last minute. All right, I don't run the top. I don't want submission monthly report August 2018 motion to receive and file second by Council member Fontana item to report a sale for our weight Adams motion to send a CD items two through five item Second by Councilman Golombi. Item 6, 2018-2021 Borough Subrecipient Agreements. Motion to approve items 6 and 7. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 8, Lower West Side Homes 2 Housing. Motion to hold an abeyance. So we'll be holding this in abeyance. I know the developer is here and I'm waiting for the Office of Strategic Planning. So if you see me looking over at my phone, it is not being rude. I need some information that they're going to provide for me. As a matter of fact, why don't you, because I can't do the whole meeting, keep looking over at the phone? Add call up to OSP and tell them when they have that information, somebody should personally bring it down to the chambers. Next item. Item nine, certificate of necessity, transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file items nine and ten. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item eleven, interfund loan. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item twelve, notification of serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferrioletto. Item 13, report of bids, CDBG, year 43. Motion to approve items 13 through 19. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 20, appoint Cocker Supervisor. Motion to send to Civil Service items 21 through 25. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 26... Commission accept 2018 state Homeland Security funding. Motion to approve items 26, 27, and 28. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 29, appoint Deputy Police Commissioner. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 30, appoint Chief. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Pro Temp. Item 31, BFD vehicle purchase. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 32, appoint firefighters. Motion to send to civil service items 32 and 33. Seconded by Council Member Friar Leno. Item 34, expedited payment of settlement agreement. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 35, food store license 1727 Genesee. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fierlo. Item 36, garbage collection license. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 38, property manager's license. Motion to send the legislation. Motion to approve. second by council member fear little 39 a point electrical inspector motion since civil service items 39 and 41 my customer why I'm 42 request to approve agreement BMHA and local 264 motion to approve second by council member Fontana and 43 not intention name is 612 Northland motion send the legislation items 43 and 44 second by council member fear little item 45 liquor license application and Motion to receive and file items 45 through 48. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 49, notice of apartments temporary or provisional permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. item 50 request archaeological assessment at 102 buffum motion to receive and file second by president proton item 51 concerns college parking motion to send the cd items 51 and 52. they might come somewhere what item 53 complaint regarding bmha and section 3 low income housing motion is sent to mwbe saying my council member fontana we go back to item 43 and 44 that All right, so the request is to revisit item 43 and 44 Resend the motion and 40 and 44 put a new motion on the floor motion is now Motion is now to adopt motion to resend second by councilman of the Lombok Motion to adopt both items second by council member the Lombok next time 43 and 44 I'm 54 per brick wall 266 Genesee motion to send the CD to SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FUELA. ITEM 55, REQUEST ARCHEOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT 102, BUFFAM. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FOLLOW ITEMS 55 THROUGH 58. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER PONTANA. ITEM 59, ROBBERY AT KELLY GARDENS. MOTION TO SEND TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND INSPECTION AND PMHA. ALL RIGHT, YOU CAN JUST TAKE IT UP THREE STEPS AND HAND IT TO THEM. YOU'RE STILL HERE. NO, I'M JUST KIDDING. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER FERENZAK. ITEM 60, SEQR NEGDEK. motion to adopt item 60 through 65 saying my council member why petitions item 66 special use permit 600 Northampton motion to send legislation and city planning board second by council member wing oh I am 67 petition in four cities diversity law motion to receive and file that's And by Councilmember Fontana. Committee, civil service, item 1, appoint executive director of real estate. Motion to approve items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12. Did you just want to approve 1 through 12? Yes, sir. Second. Goodbye, majority leader. Item 13, notice of apartments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive in 5. Say goodbye to majority leader. Finance committee, item 14, parking department, purchase vehicle. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item 15, letter from PBA President Evans. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Community Development Committee, item 16, 320, Olympic Avenue, former school number 78. Motion to approve items 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 18, report of sale, 13 Grider. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The reason why we're denying this... Is because the current applicant to purchase this property may have potential code violations on their current property. And we'd like to send this back to real estate to strategic planning for them to check for any potential code violations. They haven't their current property has been on camp. We have, we have was where we have. Over time, we've looked at the property. I can't think of where right now. But for whatever reason, they have not kept up with the current property. For us to give them more property, not to give them, but sell them more property, I don't think would be advantageous right now. Thank you. All right. Next item. Item 22, Shoshone Park Conceptual Sport Facility. I'm sorry. Item 19, Report of Sale 755, Jefferson. Motion to approve. Yes. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 20, Jefferson Avenue HDFC. Motion to approve. Yes. second by majority leader item 22 show show and park conceptual support facility motion to receive and file second by council member Fontana item 23 report of sale 101 Wyoming motion to approve second by council member Fairlotto item 24 report of sale 12 Wakefield motion to deny second by council member Franzenk council member Wingo has well let's second it by council member Wingo who has the floor thank you again Mr. Chair the reason why we're denying this sale again for 12 Wakefield is because the current property owner uh who lives right next door to this property have not been keeping up with their current property. There may be potential code violations we'd like to send this back to, strategic planning, to send out someone to check on the potential code violations of the current owner of the property. And again, we've been watching these properties over time, and they have not kept up with the property. So I'm not sure why they want to. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, so a question, because I thought that they checked. beforehand before we got them that they didn't have any. My housing liaison lives on Wakefield. So we got our information from our housing liaison who is constantly out in the community looking at properties, looking at our food stores to ensure that they're all within compliance. And if you do apply for real estate in the Madison District, this individual goes out to watch your property, see how you keep up with your property. And if your property is not kept, If it's unkempt and it's in disarray and you don't keep your grass cut, there's trash all over the place. You have all types of debris in your yard. Then no, I don't think that it's good for the city to sell them that property just so they can have two properties now that they're not keeping up with. And I think that I would be really interested to know whether we are doing. Inspection, you know, just looking at do these properties, the property owners who want additional city land have cold violations because that should be a given. I've had the same situation on the property of South Hampton. The neighbors called me to say the owner wasn't keeping up that one, but he didn't have any code violations. But you bring up a good point. Absolutely. And both of these properties are literally right around the corner from me. I drive past Wakefield. I live on Victoria Street right next door, parallel to Wakefield. And some of these properties are in my backyard. So it just doesn't make sense for us to give them more property just to throw trash on. Thank you, sir. Thanks, Ida. Legislation Committee Item 27, Planned Unit Development 2182 Delaware and 1231 Elmwood. Motion to approve with conditions outlined in Chapter 496 of the City Code. All right. Second by Councilmember Fioletto. That was a motion to approve, right? Yeah. So, yes. Oh, you had an offer. So... Approve with all that razzmatazz. All right. Thank you, sir. Corporation Council is nodding yes, so I feel good about it. All right. Next item. Item 28, special use permit 153, Elmwood. Motion to approve and the Mass. District Council request to speak on this item. All right. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Mungo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to, just for the record, acknowledge the fact that there has been several, or I'll say at least two, community meetings that they've attended that they've tried to ensure that the community was aware of this use permit. being changed over here on Main Street for the human service facility and then into C zone so let the record show that reflect whatever case is that we've definitely been speaking with the proposed change owners and they've been in communication with the community and the community has had no opposition whatsoever to this particular development or modification thank you thank you sir Item 29, special use 2643, Maine. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember, who's that, Wyatt. Item 30, special use 1607, Hurdle. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember, Fierletto. Item 31, food store license 1069, East Ferry. Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember, Fierletto. Item 32, mobile food truck. I'm sorry. Item 33, food truck. Why don't you say right on the record so that we can make sure the public is hearing. Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, regarding 31, 30, sorry, and 32, are those conditions separate from the ones that were set by the planning board or are those conditions new ones? The conditions for 31 I can say are those conditions that have been filed previously with conditions in the Fillmore District. Those at Fillmore District and for 32? 32 the food truck is just approved not with conditions 32 which is the food truck 28 was approved with conditions that were set by the Planning Board yes 28 conditions set by the Planning Board thank you right good deal thank you item 33 sidewalk cafe 33 and 34 for no objections motion to approve sorry sorry All right. Repeat that, sir. And we'll recommit it. Okay? All right. What was the motion? Which item are we? 33 and 34. 33 and 34. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Fierlo. Item 35, used car dealer 780 Walden. Motion to receive and file. second by council member fontana item 36 ordinance amendment chapter 437 taxi cab liveries and sightseeing buses that item originally came without recommendation motion is to recommit and mr ferletto brought to my attention that he wishes to recuse himself all right um the motion to recuse second by councilman fontana motion to recommit second by councilman glombe Item 37, zoning map amendment 1143, Elmwood. No objections. Items 37 and 38, motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Education Committee, item 39, concerns removal of principal from Discovery School number 67. Motion is for item number 39 to be received and filed. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scandler. Police Oversight Committee, item 40, police advisory board letter. Motion to receive and file items 40 through 44. Second by Council Member Golombet. Resolutions. Item 68, amendment of agreement with Buffalo Fine Arts Academy. Motion to approve item 68 through 71. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 73, waiver of fees for the Black Rock Riverside Oktoberfest. Motion to adopt. Which? 72 was the next item. 71 is the approval. So 73 is... Waiver of fees. Right. It's an approval. Which one are you on? 73. Waiver of fees. Okay. 72 we had already taken right 73 isn't approved set motion seconds by councilmember president item 74 BMHA internal auditing Motion to send the finance second by councilmember why I'm 75 I deciding action on disposition of 240 and 260 lakefront Boulevard motion to receive and file second by councilman Fontana item 76 fee waiver ECAL veterans 5k motion to approve item 76 through 80 second by president pro temp item 81 police dashboard motion motion is sent to CD what is it adopt and send the remainder motion to adopt and major CD yes All right, second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 82, Commissioner Deeds. Should it go to police oversight? Because we were talking about the dash cams today. What are you? 82. Body cams, yes. 81. It can? 81. Okay. Would you like, I mean, which committee? Because we're sending it to CD. Can we send it to both or? Yeah. I think it gets confusing when it goes to two. I think one committee should make a decision and send it back to the council. Okay. So it's the same people. So which one? You'd rather... CD. CD? Yeah. Okay. So that motion is staying. Item 82, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 81 and 82. All right. the 81 was the one 81 was the cd 82 it's just 82. 82 is a doubt right 82 to adopt second by council member wyatt announcement committee meetings regular committees we still have one in the band so we have one item in advance and we're ready to lift that okay motion to revisit item number eight so i'm going to be very clear here and mr mahaffey is here i am in no way thrilled um i am thrilled about this project i'm not thrilled about our process Now, I've made it very clear that there's a lot of development going on in the Ellicott district. We, this council, has the responsibility to ensure that the public is aware and that our processes are not shortcutted at the last minute by... I don't care whether it's the development community or anybody else who at the last minute says we gotta have this so our project doesn't go through. We gotta have this so our project... We see this every day. And we keep seeing it with the late files, we see it and it's not fair. Now the only reason that I'm going to recommend approval of this project, I do 100% approve of this project. What I do not approve of is this council continuing to get information And then I'm told stuff like, it'll be a deal killer if we can't get it done today. DHCR has been contacted on this project. They were supposed to call us back before we got out. I'm being told by the developer or by the representative to the developer, this is a deal killer. I want to be clear. If I find out that this is not a deal killer, I am no longer again going to do this because this council should know every other body has had the opportunity To vet it to go through it and then when it gets here, it's always this rush rush rush. Let's get through It's not right this project. The only reason I feel comfortable in Approving is because there have been public meetings I have heard from the public on it but the official place of the public meeting of the Common Council is in the Common Council committee and That's the official place. We go out to the community because it's the right thing to do. We come into the committee because it is then on the record. So if I get pushback or if at the end of the day DHCR calls me, and I want to be clear about this, if DHCR calls me and tells me that this is not a deal breaker, when I tell you it will not be a pleasant day. Because that's the reason we have a process. I know Mr. Mahaffey is here. He did his homework calling over the DHCR. I do have a note from him that he doesn't know even the consequences. The developers here, the representative, haven't seen one thing in writing that tells me it's a deal breaker. So I'm trusting as an officer of the court that what I'm being told, so I'm going to ask you to come to the mic, speak on the record, Because if this is not a deal breaker and this was a move to move this project faster There's gonna be a problem with the transfer of this property. If you state your name for the record, please. It is Michael Yeah, Lawrence Rubin. I'm a partner with the law firm of Cavanova cook LLP and I represent the developer of this project And you hold on you do recognize you're speaking before a government body. Yes, sir which in essence we we believe that what you are going to tell us is the truth and Absolutely, sir. All right. Can you tell us why this has to be approved today? We are informed by New York State HFA, which is an agency of New York State uh division of uh homes and community renewal that september 28th we must attest that all substantive approvals have been obtained for this project so that hfa feels comfortable in including this project in the official statement of the multi-million dollar tax exempt bond offering official statement that they will be mailing out on october 1st unfortunately there are no committee there are no council meetings other than this one between now and September 28 we apologize for Asking for immediate consideration We try our best to try and get this into committee at least on an informational basis but HFA dictates the calendar. Unfortunately, they did not approve this project until last week, which prevented the administration from filing this thing earlier. This project is moving very, very quickly. It's a $50 million project. Sir, and I'm not being disrespectful, Rue, I wouldn't care if it was $50 million or $5 million. At the end of the day, I want to know where we're going to change this process because this is becoming every week. And sooner or later, it short circuits what this council has the responsibility and the duty to do. And again, I want to be clear, and I'll be groundbreaking and everything because I believe in the project. This is not about the project. It is about process. And I know Mr. Mahaffey is here, and I know this is not a committee meeting, but I'm taking the chairs, whatever. whatever the power of the chair, because at the end of the day, I think that this process has to be changed in some way, or something has to change, so that my colleagues have a chance to vet something, the public has a chance to vet it on the official council record. I know that you've talked about, we don't send information items to the committee that I know of, in all the time I've been here, that we have discussions, we make decisions, and And now I don't know if that's something that the city has done, Mr. Mahaffey, if it's something we want to consider, but we should not this this should not keep happening. So is there a process, a new process that we can do? Because I can tell you, unless there is some something that's happening that I don't know, this is not the way I want to do business. I'm Fred DeMahaffey, Executive Director, Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning. Council President, I agree with you. That certainly wasn't the intent of the filing. As I mentioned to you on the phone, this is a first-of-its-kind situation for me. The focus for us has always been the closing. We do not send pilot agreements to this honorable body until we know that there is all financing in place. The policy reason for that is there are some projects that, quite frankly, don't come to fruition. We have had challenges with assessment with an active pilot for for a project that was never actually built. So the policy position is not to send anything to this body until the project is fully financed. As Council stated, it was not fully financed until last week. So from that time to the Thursday filing deadline, we put the paperwork together and filed it with this body. The focus for us has always been the closing. The closing of this happens in the middle of October, But the official statement, as council has stated, which is a prerequisite to the closing in the middle of October, happens October 1st. Again, it's a first of its kind for us. I had a conversation with DHCR that the individual that I spoke with did not have clear direction in terms of what the full impact was on the project, which is why at this point in time, abundance of caution because it is a $51 million project, a $50 million project that does have significant benefit for the community. I would ask that it be approved immediately. But in terms of process, absolutely going forward, this is something that we have to talk with both DHCR and HFA about. so that this honorable body does have that two-week process. The intent was for this body to have two weeks to review the pilot so that you could refer to committee, and it's only become clearer now the impact of that official statement, the official statement versus the closing. So the closing has always been the focus for us, which, again, in mid-October, your action by October 2nd on this item would have been plenty of time for the closing. Thank you. Of of the project, so that's the situation that we find ourselves in or I find myself in at this point. And because I feel we're going to have this over and over and over. And I don't want this council to be under the gun every single council meeting to have to make a decision. Could these could this have been conveyed with a deed restriction? That it would be clawed back to the city if they did not get funding. Well, it's the pilot agreement itself, and I think – Or even the pilot agreement. Exactly, the pilot agreement. With the ability to say if you don't get funded, obviously there is no pilot and that it expires. So that's something that I'd look into. I think some of the factors that come to mind is this is both a city and county. So there's city policy, there's county policy, there's a number of factors that we can look into. But that's something that we can examine. And my apologies to the actual developer on this because she has been meeting with the community. She has been talking. But I think, and I don't want to discourage then developers who want to do projects from saying, you know what, I don't want to deal in that area because look at what I have to go through. So invite me to the groundwork. Thank you, sir. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, September 25th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, September 25th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, September 25th, 2 p.m. Announcements, Councilmembers? Councilmember Franczak. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. This Saturday, September the 22nd, will be a commemoration of World Monuments Day at the Central Terminal on the east side of Buffalo, one of Buffalo's great landmarks and structures, the 1929 edifice that was recognized by the World Monuments Fund as a building that should be renovated Parenthetically, the city of Detroit has a train station built in 1912 that was in much worse condition than our train station. And it was recently purchased by the Ford Motor Company, which will invest in the hundreds of millions of dollars to make this 1912 building into a cutting-edge technological research center for Ford Motor Company. It's being redone in the center of Detroit. I remember visiting this station, which was, the interior was extremely dilapidated. Now all this money is being invested. You know, we're jealous here in Buffalo because of what happened, but we're also happy that it is happening for them in Detroit. and we'd like to see a similar renaissance for the central terminal. And what's been a hopeful recent development is recognition by the World Monument Fund, which they have done. And number two, seed money of $5 million that was given by Governor Cuomo in the state of New York this past year, in addition to the money they have raised. But we'll commemorate that, and others will come and celebrate it. And hopeful that our building will be as greatly renovated as what we just saw in the last weeks and months in Detroit. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilman Golombi. Thank you, Mr. President. It's one of my favorite times of the year. Oktoberfest is coming up in Riverside and Black Rock. It's commencing on Saturday, September the 29th. And I know a lot of people say, Oktoberfest? What are you doing it in September for? And as Malcolm Ertha shared with me, when he was a young man in the service in Germany, World War II, I believe. I'm not sure. He mentioned he said he was at that, you know, the typical time when the Oktoberfest would start would be the end of September. And I would tell that to people all the time, and they'd look at me like, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, so I was glad that I got clarification from somebody who was actually there. So Oktoberfest will be kicked off on September the 29th in Black Rock, and Riverside. I believe at 4 o'clock the Burgermeister will be tapping the keg. The Burgermeister shall be yours truly, I believe. And this is our, I think our fifth one that we're doing in that neighborhood and hopefully it'll go off as well as previous ones. So if anybody's looking for Oompa Bands or Black Rock Zydeco or anything like that, we have two buses that are going to be driving around the neighborhood for the entire evening. We We hope to see people come and enjoy Oktoberfest in the Black Rock and Riverside neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Council Member White. Thank you. I want to just say first, happy Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15th to October 15th. Thank you to all of my Hispanic friends. Say it in Spanish. I can say something in Spanish, but you taught me not to say that, so I won't say that. I want to invite the business community from the University District to our business breakfast, our first business breakfast at Varsity Theater on September 20th from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. We also have a guest that's going to be M&T Bank. We would like the business community to come out to talk about some of the things that we're looking to do in the district as well as the new streetscape plan that we're putting forward for Bailey Avenue. Also... Big meeting. I want to invite the residents of the Kenfield Langfield community to BMHA community meeting townhouse meeting is going to be taking place at Olmstead school on October 3rd from 537. Now, if you're watching this, this is not a beat up session. This is about talking about the issues and coming up with resolutions. Mr. Brown said that he would be there. I appreciate him saying that. And we're working about working on solutions, not just pointing fingers. What can we do to improve the housing issues over in Kinfield, Langfield? And I appreciate BMHA being a part of the conversation so that we can take care of the business of the people. I agree. I think it's better, you know, we've talked about this before, to work together. Not not being us against them. Yes. How do we work together? Good job comes from anybody else. All right Member Fontana