I got it. How do I, for 321 roll call council member Bowman, President, Council Member Farrell little Council Member Golomba Council Member no Kelsey here. Council President pigeon majority leader Rivera, President, President pro temp scaling, President, Council Member Wingo, Council Member why your core is present, the stamp of the pledge.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag, the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I remain standing our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Hebrews 11.4 is an interesting notation.
 It reads thus, although Abel is long dead, he still speaks to us by his example of faith. Although Abel is long dead, he still speaks. I was thinking about leadership legacy today. How many of you have a deceased family member's voice that every so often pops up in your thoughts, in your head, and you remember wisdom and advice from those who've gone before?
 It's true that our choices today impact our legacy both while we're here and after we're gone. Yesterday I was reminded of this when there was the dedication of the Mount Olive Senior Manor, the groundbreaking that took place yesterday, and my late friend Pastor Gillison. All of you are well familiar with Pastor's legacy. Talk about a leadership legacy that lives beyond him.
 The headlines on one of the local news stations was, Mount Olive Senior Manor Brings Late Pastor's Vision to Life. Wow. A legacy that goes beyond his life for our city and those in need. The partnership between Mount Olive Development Corporation and People, Inc. His son, the pastor now, Pastor Dwayne Gillison. The spiritual foundation of the project started 28 years ago. I grew up on a farm.
 You don't expect there to be harvest from the seed you planted 28 years before. But that is how it works in this leadership legacy. The vision of the late Reverend Dr. William Gillison 28 years ago. Now, Pastor DeWayne said, we're realizing it's his vision that was given to him and we're going to see it through. Wow.
 Even being in the wheelchair for nine and a half years, he still was going forward, his late wife said, with the plans to complete this project, she said, with the help of God. Harvest, 28 years after the seed planted. I'll give you just one more thought, and that is that one of the close friends of Pastor Gillison was Bishop Tommy Reed. Bishop Tommy Reed is now 91.
 And on Monday, caught a plane with his 86-year-old wife, Wanda, to Orlando, and he's speaking to thousands of pastors in the conference in Orlando this week at age 91. Wow. Although Abel is long dead, he still speaks. Let's pray. Father, I thank you that today we have opportunity, just as others have done, to build a legacy that long outlasts our earthly years.
 One that remains, fruit that continues, good, positive fruit that impacts not just our family and friends, but in Pastor Gillison and Bishop Reed's case, impacts the city and beyond.
 Thank you, Father, for these larger-than-life heroes. But Lord, thanks that your hand is up on each of these leaders today to be building something bigger and longer than themselves. And the sacrifices that need to be made today to make tomorrow better, I pray that will be part of their lasting leadership legacy.
 Thank you for today's session. Bless it with your presence, I ask in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner, Councilmember's Memorials, Councilmember Golombic. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside.
 And St. Mark's All Saints Episcopal Church lost a stalwart Mary Shea Coxess. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family, especially her husband, Bob, Robert, and her friends from the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Any others?
 Say no other. We always remember men and women who have given their life for our country and other countries for freedom since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a special presentation by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. If I could have the representatives from Mental Health Associates of Western New York, please come down.
 For those of you who are unaware, September is Suicide Prevention Month, and unfortunately, far too many of us have been impacted by this subject, either directly or indirectly. It's something that I've been impacted by directly. And when you hear about organizations like Mental Health Advocates of Western New York,
 you're initially grateful for all the work that they're doing in the community. But when you have the opportunity to partner up with them, as I have, you're really blown away by what they're doing. They are, in my estimation, and I don't think it's overstating it, they are saving lives.
 They have programs that range from every age, whether it's their best program, their youth peer advocates, and as people grow, they have something, a little bit of some programs for everyone.
 I recently had the opportunity to partner with them and some other organizations on a mental health and wellness day in South Buffalo, and I was absolutely blown away by the work that they do. With us today, we have the board chair, Lauren Baines, along with their leadership team.
 Amy Stark, Ed Martin, Ed Marchin, Stacey Jawalski, Ted Zientek, Jody Johnson, and Kelly Moskovsky. I just want to thank you.
 on behalf of the community for the work that you continue to do. As I said, the programs are incredible, but more so than that, the partnerships that you've created, the relationships that you've forged throughout this community, and the work that you do is absolutely second to none. So I just want to thank you again on behalf of the Council and on behalf of the Western New York community for everything that you do. On behalf of
 breaking down barriers, removing the stigma when it comes to mental health and conversations around suicide. Because as I said, it's not overstating it when I say that you're saving lives. So thank you again for all the incredible work that you're doing. Thank you so much for recognizing our organization. I've had the pleasure of serving on the MHA board for almost 10 years now. So it's such an honor to be able to
 be recognized in this way and really it's not me at all, it's these amazing people behind me that work every day and run all of the programs that MHA provides in our community. MHA has been around since 1962. Our primary core mission is removing the stigma with mental illness, but also connecting individuals in our community to resources that can help them be heard and be helped.
 Stacey runs some of our family programs. We have Erin here from our board. Kelly's running information and referrals, referring people all over the community to helping them navigate the mental health care system. We're so honored to be recognized today. We are honored to partner with Councilman Scanlon and Senator Kennedy a couple of months ago, dealing with the very critical issue of suicide prevention. I just received information that actually
 one little bit of hope we have in our community is that suicides are actually down in western New York locally, but they are on the rise nationally. And one of the most troubling statistics that the team here has briefed me on is that one in three adolescent girls has feelings of hopelessness and despair. As a mother of a little girl, it's heartbreaking to hear that. So there's so much work left to be done in our community and MHA communities.
 is geared up and ready to help in any way that we can. We have a myriad of programs. You can visit our website to learn more about us. And we absolutely appreciate the recognition from the Common Council today. So thank you so much. And I apologize, Erin Moss, you arrived. I didn't see you come in there, so I apologize. But no, when we are talking about suicide and
 this subject, as Lauren mentioned, removing the stigma is extremely important. And when we start to talk about this, it's a very dark subject at times for people, but Mental Health Associates of Western New York truly is a light at the end of the tunnel for a lot of these people. So again, thank you for all you do. We have a proclamation here from all nine council members, and if I
 The Buffalo Common Council honors and celebrates mental health associates of Western New York during National Suicide Prevention Month for their steadfast commitment to provide services to residents across the city of Buffalo and Western New York. So thank you again for all that you do on a continual basis. Perfect. On a motion by Council Member Revere, seconded by Council Member Scanlon, the minutes of meeting held on September 5th, 2023 are approved. Council Members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Seeing no objections, it does not take away your right to pause the meeting. If you did not have a chance to review any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda. Chair DeLeda? Mr. Chairman, motion to discharge item 69. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. And we're going from the top. Item number 77, discharge item 23-12 from Legislation Committee. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number one, ARPA small business program sub-recipient agreement. Motion to send the finance. I'm back on to remember what?
 Item number two, permission to enter into a lease to own agreement with Kevin Guesthouse. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number three, permission to grant Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation two temporary easements at five quarter. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Volman. Item number four, regarding abandonment and sale portion of former William L. Gator Parkway located between. Motion to send items four through six to CD. Second by Councilmember Nohkoski.
 Item number seven, cash flow report, July 2023. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number eight, certificate of necessity, purchase of police cameras. Motion to receive and file items eight and nine. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 10, Delaware Park improvements. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 11, amended COA.
 Motion to send the civil service items 11 and 12. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 13, encroachment on City Right-of-Way, 429 Rhode Island Street. Motion to send legislation City Planning Board. Second by Council Member Wise. Item number 14, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement. Motion to approve items 14 through 18. Second by President Pro Tem Scanton. Item number 19, notice of appointment. Motion to send the civil service items 11.
 19 through 21. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 22, permission to enter into contracts for global intelligence. Motion to approve items 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Fairlawn. Item number 24, Drayton, Myesha, Trevor, Xavier, and Tariq, $255,000. Motion is sent to the claims committee. Item 24 through 29. Second by Council Member White.
 Item number 40, new secondhand dealer 55, aka 45 Allen. Motion to approve with conditions. Item number 41, property manager. Motion to send the legislation. Item number 42, permission to enter into agreement for say yes to education. Motion to approve items 42 through 45 Allen.
 Senate Council Member Fairland. Item number 46, Cannabis Retail Dispensary License Notice for 212 Ohio Street. Motion to receive and file items 46 and 47. Senate Council Member Nowkowski.
 Item number 48, TVA Act in Time. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 49, appoint TVA clerk. Motion to send the civil service items 49 and 50. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Miscellaneous. Item number 51, Affordable Housing Task Force. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 52, Sensory Backpack Program Letter of Support. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item number 53, Community Police Advisory Committee Council Update. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 54, Concerns Housing Code Violations. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member White.
 Item number 55, resolution of school safe zones. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 56, request to appeal preservation board decision on 387 Florida Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 57, letters of support named the Athletic Center as Social Park. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 58, request for Mandela's license. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Furlong.
 Item number 59, investigative post on City Hall clerk paid not to work. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 60, public hearing notice.
 Route 33 tunnel construction. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilman Golombik. I just wanted to say, just so for clarity, it says City Hall clerk. It's not the clerk of City Hall in that article. Just wanted to be very clear. She was getting calls. Next item.
 Item number 61, request to purchase vacant lot corner of Davidson and Suffolk. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member White. Item number 62, concerns BDA for African Heritage Economic Initiative. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item number. False. All right. Item number 63, seeker negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombi. Petitions. Item number 64, special use. 830 Abbott Road.
 Motion to send legislation city planning board item 64 through 69. Second by Councilman Boland. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, pants sent to permanent.
 Motion is to receive and file items one through and including 24. Second by the Majority Leader Revere. Item number 25, Appoint Report Technician. Motion is to approve items 25 through and including 34. Second by the Majority Leader Revere. Finance, item number 35, amendments to the 2020-21 Annual Action Plan.
 Okay. I'm sorry. Excuse me. Second by Council Member Ferrellano. A to number 36, Cal Contract Extension. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. A to number 37, Request to Purchase a Used Aerial Ladder Truck. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. A to number 38, Permission to Renew Western New York Polygraph Contract. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Riviere.
 item 39 permission to hire for george k arthur jim motion to approve items 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 and 47. second by council member noah kowski item number 48 20 24 capital budget and four-year capital improvement program um this item is approved yep second by council member fearless
 Item number 49, City of Buffalo Discretionary Fund Policy. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomba. Community Development. Item number 50, DDA Extension for 167, 169, 175, Mastin. At the request of the District Council Member, 50 will be approved and 51 will also be approved. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 52, Support to Rename Broderick Park to Freedom Park. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomba.
 SCANLAN. EDA number 53, BDA for 98, 104, 108, 120, Glenwood, 1760 Emerson, and a 221.5 portion of 58 Emerson. Motion to approve 53 and 54. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 item number 55 the buffalo border education leaves district seats out of sync with population changes uh we're going to recommit this uh mr president i think there's some very serious issues that are in this uh
 item that deal with actual federal law, not necessarily city or state law. The Board of Ed had a reelection, I believe, last year for district seats, and they had never reapportioned. And my understanding is that as per federal law, after every state or U.S. census, that you have to reapportion. And I think that this should stay here until we get some
 clarification on that. I'd like to ask staff if they could send a letter to perhaps our federal delegation to see if we could get an answer from them. Thank you. Thank you.
 legislation item number 56 bus patrol school bus armed camera services motion to approve items 56 through 58 second by council member fair little councilman white has i'm in a negative sir please record council member white in the negative on 56 item number
 59 new tobacco hookah and vape 2076 South Park. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Revere. Item number 60, sidewalk cafe license 1456 hurdle. Motion to approve items 60 through 63 with conditions on 62 and 63. Second by Council Member Watt. Item number 64, special use 1125 Tonawanda. At the request of the District Council Member, there's a motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Watt.
 got second by councilman go on back who has the floor thank you um i would i'm fully prepared to approve this uh uh except there's one little glitch that has come up um there's been an issue with the exhaust fan that is going into some of the neighbors backyards that have gotten some complaints and we're going to have to go over there and address that issue once we address that issue we're going to be able to prove it uh i've met with them they're wonderful people and i think it's going to be a wonderful addition for the community once we fix that vent
 neighbors just don't want to smell barbecue all day so yeah i guess it's pretty bad though okay like constant all right item number 65 sidewalk cafe 639 main motion to approve second by council member no accounts item number 66 exploring an ability to address the resell and donated goods motion to receive and file second by council member
 Item number 67, special use for 67 Elmwood. Motion to approve with conditions items 67 through 69. Second by President Pro Temp's skin. Item number 69, new tobacco hookah vape, 42 Allen Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Resolutions item number 70, safety and fire emergency coordination. Motion to adopt the results from Maynard and Civil Service. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 EDIT NUMBER 71 WAVE FEAST FOR BUFFALO SCIENCE MIDDLE SCHOOL AND CHAPEL OF DAY OF SERVICE. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER BOWMAN. EDIT NUMBER 72 AUDIT OF CITY EMPLOYEES ON PAY ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE. MOTION TO ADAPT. SECOND BY COUNCILMEMBER NORKOWSKI. WHO HAS THE FLOOR? THANK YOU. MR. PRESIDENT, I FILED THIS RESOLUTION TO
 sent to the city controller to do an audit. I know it was texted to probably everybody in City Hall, the article that showed that there was a city employee who was on paid administrative leave for seven and a half years collecting a check and then discovered to also have a second job. And it's the duty of elected officials to do their job and to make sure that they fight for the taxpayers and the workers in the city of Buffalo. So not only was this,
 Gross ineptitude.
 It also erodes public trust when multiple agencies in City Hall are entrusted in making sure that we watch these taxpayer funds, and that paid administrative leave is almost two councilmatic terms. I mean, that's a long time. And to not have anything rectified and for them to remain getting paid on the city taxpayer dollar while not performing public duties is wrong. It's a clear distinction of what's right and wrong. I know we're all raised by parents that told us that and taught us that. And...
 Moving forward when we see this is it's our job. I mean the civil service chair. I'm not going to sit here and just ceremonial past things and and be a rubber stamp and bobble my head up there. I'm here to do some work. And I don't know if I have to fight off the senioritis in this building and come in here and do my job. I will. So the fact of the matter is, is we do have an investigative arm for taxpayer dollars in city hall. That's the city controller.
 Seven dash one of our own charter. I'll go to section four and how the applicability of this comes in here. Now the controller shall have the power to conduct performance audits of all bureaus, offices, departments, boards, commissions, activities, functions, programs, agencies, and other entities and services in the city.
 Their activities and programs are conducted in compliance with applicable law and regulation conducted efficiently and effectively to accomplish their intended objectives. Also in the city charter under 7-6, which also goes back to the common councils and the rules and the powers that derive from us, is Section 0.
 the invest to investigate and inquire into all matters that concern the city and its inhabitants and to require and enforce by subpoena the attendance and witnesses or the production of documents in such investigations. That's what we're in charge for. We have to come in here. We have real jobs. We have real power that we actually have to do. And so
 Also, 7-7 is the response to audits. So the controller is empowered and entrusted to conduct audits of agencies and departments. And after that, and those documents are furnished, are to drop a report, but also to find the regulation between
 multiple city unions, city departments, policies and procedures, and to make sure that they're adhering to them. And they have a whole reporting process that I think until you dive into it, you don't realize that the charter responsibilities of the Comptroller, they're also there to report irregularities. We had a great Comptroller in Mark Schroeder, and he was actually the one that conducted that back in 2015, who found those irregularities. Now, the Comptroller left me a,
 a voicemail about her role and the department's role. Some people can infer tone, I don't. I promptly called her back and left a voicemail and did not get a call back. And I know what's heard, this is Buffalo, you can hear it from everywhere. I know what's what's said in the streets or to press and I'm unbothered
 by any spicy comments about me. I'm here to do my job. I don't know if I should walk around with a Nike shirt that says just do it because we need people to start coming to City Hall to do their job.
 That is what this resolution instructs for the city controller to conduct an audit. And it's the backbone of city government of the Common Council to make sure that these are furnished and that we're working in transparency and we're doing the work on the behalf of the public. You know what I think of when I think of someone getting paid $600,000 of taxpayer money while not working? I think of police and fire that are going in during a global pandemic and being first responders earning their pay. I think of our workers in City Hall doing that.
 So this isn't a laughing matter and back and forth and comes down to politics and who could tough talk, I could tough pretty talk to. And you know what, if you want to say something, you can catch me in 1410. That's where I, that's where I will be.
 because I don't need to talk behind people's backs. And that's what this resolution is instructed to do. And I hope that I have the support of my colleagues to maintain. I will also have an item in civil service that we can follow up on this. I gave the comptroller about 60 days in the forward resolution. If she needs more, if her office needs to do more or have more time to make sure that the report is accurate, she can send an intergovernmental correspondence to the council and to give us a date of when she thinks she can furnish this for the council. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Mr. Chair, Councilmember, thank you very much. I compliment Councilmember and Chairman of the Civil Service Committee for bringing this item before the Common Council. I don't know all of the backstory. My understanding is that this individual allegedly, and I'll use the word allegedly, committed some kind of fraud in terms of paperwork.
 She was suspended, paid an administrative leave, and there was supposed to be a meeting or a hearing held. Well, over seven years, there was no hearing held. They find out that this woman is off. They bring her back on and put her to work without the hearing. So initially, there was a hearing to make a determination whether Meredith being suspended, terminated.
 This is brought to light. They don't have the hearing, so we don't know understand how can we go seven years and not having a hearing.
 and at the same time paid the person $600,000. If anyone on this Common Council did that, we would be terminated. There's absolutely no doubt in my mind. So we need to find where the process broke down, why something fell through the cracks here. We don't know why the hearing wasn't held for seven years.
 And at the same time, as council member mentioned, this person was working somewhere else, collecting a paycheck both here and wherever the person was working. This is one case where it's a no brainer. There should be an audit. Where did we fail? Where did system break down? That doesn't normally happen. And the only way to find out is having an audit.
 We audit every department or not every department but we certainly audit the clerk's office. We should audit something like this this is $600,000. So we'll, we'll work with the comptroller's office. As I said, this is alleged until it's proven and I just want to preface that, but there should be an audit there should be some finding to let us know where the system broke down. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Councilman Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to support our civil service chairman here doing his job and calling for this audit. Seven years is a long time. $600,000 is a lot of money, and we want to get to the bottom of this. So I commend my colleague in doing a good job as the chair of the Civil Service Department. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman White. Thank you, Mr. President, and I have to echo the same sentiments of my colleagues in the
 and the chair's action, we have a responsibility as fiduciaries over the city's funds. And I know some years ago there was some theft that took place, and there was an investigation that somebody was charged. And this should be no different. We have finite resources in this city
 No one should get away with something like this. So I know it's alleged so I know there needs to be an audit done. And as the majority leader said, you know, the clerk's office has been audited numerous times, and there's no missing funds.
 And so I hope that they will take action, proper action. Every person is due their due diligence and preponderance of the law, whatever, but I hope that this is investigated. And if there is something that's there, I hope we can get every nickel back because the taxpayers have been dealing with things like this for far too long.
 finite resources. This should not go away. This can pay some city bills. So thank you to my colleague and chairman of civil service for his decisive action. Thank you. Quick question. The resolution calls for the audit. And I don't know if corporation counsel could answer this or maybe, you know, because you've been doing the research. It calls for the controller to do it, the controller's office.
 Does that compel them that they have to do the audit or they can decline? We can't confer with the Corporation Council, but the investigative powers that are cited within 7-6 are derived from the Council's powers of investigation. Of directing the controller? I don't know if it's a direction, if we can get a clarification. Because I think that that's important to find out.
 if the controller, if the Council can compel or direct controller to do an audit, and if not, who does it? I think that that's very important. And does this Council have then the ability
 under the Charter. What's our next? What is the next move of this Council? I think from the looks of it, that there's unanimous support on the resolution, because you can't just leave that much money on the table and walk away. And I think that
 If there if there is not an investigation, then it is a dereliction of duty. So I don't know if you want to weigh in, Corporation Council. So I under the city code, I don't believe that city, the Common Council can compel the comptroller to do a specific audit. But I believe that the Common Council has separate authority to conduct its own investigations. Yes.
 but i'm not sure about the specific process of how it conducts its own investigation and i think that that's important you know we've talked a long time about whether it was the council having our own attorney and by the way that job is still open if anybody wants to apply um we still have the funds for for our own attorney
 But I think that that's important to this resolution. If, and I don't know, and I won't stir all that up, what the controller responded, but it didn't sound like you got a response of, we're going to open up an investigation. So what I would hate to see is this just sit and that then we don't do anything. And the question is what, how, you know, we don't have control.
 auditors on the council. And I think that that's a question we should ask Corporation Council and staff to work together to figure out, if not from the Comptroller's Office, where from. Okay, thank you. Next item. Item number...
 Item number 73, budget and personnel amendment for the council. Motion to approve items 73 and 74. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 75, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt items 75 and 77. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 78 trailblazing resolution for Rick G. Nat G. Right. The G. Rats. You do not watch sports. Thank you. Motion to approve. Neither do I.
 Item number 79, excuse Council Member Wingo from council meeting September 19th. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 80, trailblazing sign for Ali L. Deanway. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 81, calling on public hearing for renaming of Broderick Park to Freedom Park. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nelkowski. Council Member Rivera, you have the floor. Thank you very much, Council President Wingo.
 As you all know, there is a group of advocates that would like to rename Broderick Park to Freedom Park. Broderick Park was named after Michael Broderick, who was one of the founders of the rowing club at the southern point of Unity Island, which is now Unity Island. There have been a number of people over the years that have advocated for a name change.
 For many people, for many people they're not aware of the significance, the historic significance of the park.
 and which is part of the terminus to the underground railroad to many people in the african-american community as they said before it is sacred it is hollow they come from all over and they park their buses on niagara street because they can't get down the bridge even when it rains they make their way down to the river's edge to honor those that
 made it to Canada and those that died trying to traverse the waters. I understand that the Broderick family and I was pleasantly informed that they are supportive of this that says a lot about that family.
 that they're willing to give up the name that they've had for so many years, and they understand the historical significance of that. So this resolution begins the process. There'll be a public hearing, and then there'll be another resolution for the name change. And I'm sure somewhere in the park, we'll have a place, just like we have for Lillian Batchelor, the contemplative garden, we'll have a place for the Broderick family as well. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Next item. Item number 82, local law, intro number two, article 24, officers and employees. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Noe Acosta. Item number 83, resolution, where are we at? Motion to send the civil service. Council Member Bowman, Council Member Whitehead's floor. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank my colleagues for supporting this effort and giving feedback. I had a community meeting on September 9th, one of our 100 residents.
 And we talked about a lot of things in my district. But one of the main things that they talked about was the snow. For the last three years, we've had some issue regarding snow. And last year, of course, with a blizzard, unprecedented. Climate change is real. There's a lot of things happening. We've requested, this comment council has requested a number of things to address that.
 And it doesn't seem as though we've gotten the traction. I know we've ordered some of the equipment. There's some other things that the Public Works Department is doing to address big snowfall. But the public needs to hear that. The public needs to be aware of every step. We should not go into this next winter without having the understanding of where we are and what we're doing, what is the plan.
 We asked for this. With all due respect, I think we've been very patient. We've worked with the administration on everything that they requested as far as equipment. And so now we need to know the plan. I was hopeful that we would have a snow plan sooner. I know what the charter says, November 1. We've put forth the resolution asking for it through your efforts as well to get that sooner. It makes sense. But don't let's not make an excuse.
 The residents deserve to know where we are with this. There should be a comprehensive plan. We've had three years to do some things to improve some of our missteps. We know we have our men and women in public works work very hard, very diligent, but they're not the leaders. So we need the leader to step up. We need the leader to not just make sound bites, but really have a comprehensive plan for what we're going to be doing
 for the next snowfall. That could happen tomorrow, legitimately. This is not high in the sky. The lake is warm. There's all these different conditions in which can affect us dramatically with snowfall. So again, we've asked respectfully for this information, and I hope we can get it very quickly. We know that it's going to come in committee, and we hope that during the committee meeting
 We have a group, a army of folks, given the public information that they are due. This is Buffalo. Snow can happen at any point in time. We need to know that we have a plan, and we need to know that leadership from this city has their best interests at heart and their safety. We lost 40 people, 46 people.
 We should not lose another life because of snow or on our unpreparedness. Thank you. Mr. President. Thank you. Councilman. Thank you. Mr. President and I signed on to this letter not to have any finger pointing. I generally genuinely want to know where some of the resolutions and some of the things that we're pushing and advocating for are at specifically put forth the warming shelters.
 And that was something that was important to the Lovejoy District and citywide. We had a warming shelter. It lost power and the residents didn't have anywhere to seek refuge. So we did the work of trying to figure out.
 where the assets are within the communities and where they'd be best put so we want to hear from the public works department this is not finger pointing we need to know about our fleet manager emergency coordinator it's bigger than the snow plan this is overall emergency planning for the city of buffalo and so that's where i'm at with this thank you councilman no council
 Thank you, Mr. President. The acronym that seemed to take over the news this weekend. Where are we at? So we did suffer last year from a blizzard, a severe storm. There were fatalities. We discovered that the city needs a lot in the ordinance of fleet of capital equipment. I know that I put a lot of requests for it and for equipment.
 a emergency manager that yes, we understand that those duties right now are with the fire commissioner, but we understand that looking at other municipalities that it's appropriate to have an emergency manager. This council operated in good faith to get an emergency manager. That was really our prerogative. And the deal was really to for the mayor to have a fleet manager. All of a sudden, it seems to not be so important when in February, it was so important. And
 to come to committees at nauseam and to just talk and everything be a charade i'm over it you have to cut when you work for the city of buffalo you come to these chambers to talk to all of us because you're talking to all of our residents that's that you can't evade the common council or not talk to us we are the people's elected representatives this is what we do so then when we go back to block clubs we say this was stated in committee it's televised it's public the the public can inter interact with
 with these chambers and that's the spirit and the intent of this letter thank you mr president thank you mr chairman i joined in on this letter it's been now nine months since the lake effect snow of december 16th and 18th the blizzard of 23 through 27 and we all experienced that in real
 in reality because we received the calls from people that were in despair. People that were stuck on the road, people that had no electricity, no power. We saw that the fire trucks couldn't get through the streets. We saw it on the news.
 and that we were felt helpless to help people that were calling us. We were stuck in our own homes where we couldn't do anything to help these folks. After the storm, we came together and we worked with every department head to give us an evaluation, what we can do better, what broke down, communication, equipment, the snow drifts. They gave us all the reasons that they couldn't get to these people that needed them.
 And many council members that are here said, hey, we need an emergency coordinator to prepare for any eventuality, not just a blizzard. It could be a hurricane. It could be an earthquake like we had last year. It could be chemical spills. It could be a number of things, even man-made like Jefferson.
 Those are times where we need to be prepared. And we're not pointing a finger. The idea was let's work together to have somebody there to prepare that. We negotiated in good faith. We told them, you want a fleet manager, you can get the fleet manager. We want an emergency manager. We honor the intent of that budget.
 years or almost a year later, they have not filled that position. To me, this is urgent. I don't know how far and wide their search was. I don't know how many applicants applied, but the position remains a position that should be filled. Above all the positions we filled this year, and we filled quite a few positions, we paid some high-paying jobs. I don't know what they do. They're high-paying good jobs.
 But this is a critical position that needs to be put into place. And so we're going to work with the administration. They should honor this.
 the agreement that this council had with them. I think that's important going forward to continue the trust and the working that we have. I think we all voted for that because they wanted the fleet manager. And we said, okay. And I know that you were part of that negotiation as well, and so was leadership. So we just asked them to honor that and provide us this information a lot sooner. I don't think we should wait till November the 1st. We've had the October surprise.
 They should provide us that information even before the budget year. I think we should change the charter to make it from November to April before we go into the May budget hearings. We should move it up. We should have that information right now so we can disseminate that information, so we can feel confident and we can share that information with the general public. I'm not saying that Public Works is not working or the fire department isn't working.
 or any other department. But I want to make sure, should a storm comes, that we're able to utilize whatever resources we have at our fingertips, with mutual aid with other municipalities, the state, the county. I want to make sure we're at the table and communicating in real time
 and working with everyone to make sure we have every available asset, that we have the manpower and the technology, and there's no breakdown, and that the equipment, yes, can get to where it needs to get to. So we're going to work with the administration. I don't want to point fingers, but let's do what we said we were going to do. Let's honor the intent of that budget that we passed. Thank you very much. Thank you. And one of the reasons that we –
 move the budget today was because there was some equipment in there that was needed for snow removal and for storms. But I agree. We did ask for that information by resolution earlier. I said it last year. I'll say it again. November is much too late. Some of us were in October storm. We were there. And anything could happen. We're, you know, whoever thought we'd have an earthquake.
 And so we see that things are changing in our environment and we have to be ready. I hope we get, and I spoke with even the Deputy Mayor the other day about this, is making sure, you know, meeting here is fine, and it should be. The presentation needs to be public.
 But I think sometimes we forget that we can meet during the week and sit down and iron out stuff. And so that by the time it hits the floor, we have worked together to...
 address each other. You know, obviously we know we can't meet with more than a majority because it will be a public meeting, but there's nothing to hide. I'm just talking about talking and communicating better so that we're on one page when we go before the public because nobody, not no administration, doesn't want
 another death and I know the council doesn't want another death we all we all are concerned about our citizens so I also encourage them by the time committee meeting comes that I think all of our doors are open and small meetings can be held so that council members can be heard and there's a plan that includes some of the concerns that the council has raised. Council Member Golomba.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with Mr. Rivera, and I'd be willing to co-sponsor legislation to actually change the date that it would be required to be sent to us, because my understanding is we can beg, cajole, request all we want, but legally he doesn't have to report to us until November 1st. I think that we should put something in the charter that it does have to come in earlier. And while it sounds silly in a way to do it in April, I understand the real
 the reality behind that, we have the budget coming up in May. And so if we knew in April what the upcoming snow plan was going to be, we would be able to address it better than finding out on November 1st, yeah, there's the capital budget in November that we'd be voting on, but you know, it's going to be fresh in our minds in May because how many times have we made priorities, and it's not a shot at us either, but we've made priorities during the storm
 and then may rolls along and you know we're on to the next thing so i think that this should be something that should be codified and uh i'd be willing to work with mr rivera and anybody else that wants to uh make that change for the charter mr president we have that resolution ready to go so if you want it we could file it right now the the
 the chief of staff has that ready because we talked about this ad nauseum it's time for us to pull a trigger so if we can file it now if that's okay and we got co-sponsors we can do it right now we have it well it wasn't you mean as far as on the floor changing the date a late file yes um we don't have a copy of it so i wouldn't want to ask council members to vote on something that they can't
 You know, we you've seen it. I've seen you can get a copy for everyone before the end of the meeting. That would be up to this floor. OK, the only reason I would I'm going to go with the majority of which one do. I just like the transparency of getting that out to the public in a copy. And I don't want someone to think that we were kind of going around the public process. No problem. We will hold with that. We already have it ready. So I need one of that when a co-sponsor they can talk to Mr. Montour. We're ready. So we'll have it for the next meeting. You got it.
 Councilmember Glumman? That's how I was going to recommend or put it in front of us and send it to committee so that we'd be able to get it out to our constituencies. Now, I don't mind that. If the majority of council members want to accept it as a late file and go to committee, I think that that would be okay. So we have, we can do that. You can grab that.
 All right, so I'm not gonna hold go ahead comes from a friend I would just, I would just suggest if we do that then we take a recess because I'm not going to vote on something without reading it, doing all that so that's just my suggestion if we're going to lay file. Yeah, and we wouldn't vote on it today because that's what I was cautioned that I don't want to vote on it today either. It would just, it could just be sent to committee. But that's, I'm, I'm elected by you all, I want to do what the majority of this council wants done. So,
 So they said they're okay. Well, Joel said he was okay with it going to committee. Okay, okay with it going to committee. So basically, just so that I wanted to be very transparent. This is a resolution that would change the date of when the council is informed of the snow plan by the administration. Very rarely have we done done this process like this, however.
 I do think that this is an important issue. It wouldn't affect, unfortunately, the data has already gone past. So it wouldn't affect this year because we're already in September. It would affect next year. But the council has every right to file a late file.
 We have filed late files on the floor before. And I think that because this is a high public interest item. So first, so we have, they're bringing down the item very quickly so that we can give the title of the item, get the item on the record, and then see if we have any objection to the late file. Cause we still have to do that because it would be late though. So they're bringing it down like really, really quickly.
 Which committee are we sending it to? CD? They're going to legislation? Legislation. Oh, because it's changing the charter. Yeah.
 So we'll get that down. Do we have any other items or are we at the end? We have more items. So we'll hold that in abeyance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 84, consideration to rename Martin Luther King Jr. Park Casino to the Joyce Wilson Nixon Casino. Motion to adopt item 84 and 85. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. I'll just say real quick on this. When the administration called, I was 100% in support of this. Joyce was
 just memorialized this week at our church. And a huge contingency of people came from all over the city. It was just beautiful to see it in this. And I'm not, it's not in, obviously, it's in Madison. But I was asked to sign off on this also. But I think that is befitting because that's where her heart was, was with these kids and to see the drill team.
 there and it was wonderful. Thank you, Mr. President. And I was there at beautiful home going for her. And I was a member of NICYO and one of the founders who hired me, Butch Holt. I have a great affinity for that organization and Joyce took it to the next level. I think Richard Clark, who spoke, who was a founding member, talked about how she took it to the next level as far as engaging children.
 And she's done a phenomenal job with our youth, and she will be missed, but her spirit will live on, and her name will live on at that casino where they did many activities as it related to the Randy Smith League. So again, I applaud the administration and Council Member Wingo for making this quick change. Thank you. Absolutely.
 Next item. Item number 86, trailblazing resolution for Reverend Dr. James C. Blackburn Jr. I'm sorry, which item were you on? I was reading the- Item number 86. 86, motion to approve. Second by Councilman Bowman. Item number 87, reducing speed limit on North Parade Block. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 88, resolution of Common Council Series 2023, Avons. Motion to adopt.
 on 88 that's under doubt or pardon me we are 88. yes 88 motion to approve items 88
 through 90. second by Council member fear little motion to revisit item 83 uh 83 was it 83 we got a new item pardon me we're going to add a we're going to late file we're going to say what we're going to answer let's um for the public sake is I think again transparency is so important this is a item which will end up being item number 91.
 to amend this Buffalo City Charter regarding the deadline for the city snow plan. I'm just going to go to the resolves and read those publicly, and this document will be publicly available.
 By tomorrow now therefore be it resolved that the Buffalo Common Council calls on Corporation Council to file an amendment to the Buffalo City Charter changing the deadline for the filing of the snow plan from November 1st to April 1st of each year. Be it further resolved that this adjustment to the deadline will allow for a comprehensive evaluation of the previous winter season
 provide ample time for necessary plan amendments and updates, and ensure that the city's budget adequately supports the city's snow plan for the following winter season. Then resolves that this will be sent to the Mayor's Office, Public Works, and Corporation Council. Gentlemen, are there any objections to the late file? Hearing no objections, we'll hear the item called by the clerk.
 Item number 91, amend the Buffalo City Charter regarding the deadline for the city snow plan. Would that be an adoption? Sent to legislation. Motion is sent to legislation. Right, because it's going to committee. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. And can you put me on as a co-sponsor? Put Columbeck on as co-sponsor. Rivera, Nowakowski, Bowman. All right. Thank you.
 Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees, Committee on Civil Services, Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Services, Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 2 p.m.
 Committee on Claims will be Wednesday, September 27, 2023 at 1 p.m. Special Committees Committee on Education will be Tuesday, September 26, 2023 at 11 a.m. Any announcements for your districts? Seeing none. Majority Leader? Council Member Nowakowski. Almost missed it. Mr. President, how could the passion of the time take me away from all the events I have in the Fillmore District?
 this week. The first is at this Buffalo Central Terminal, starting at 10 o'clock, there will be a Family Fund Farmers Market where there will be produce that starts at 10 o'clock. And at noon in downtown Buffalo on Delaware Avenue from Edward to the Circle, Niagara Square, the 85th Annual Pulaski Day Parade will be there. I'll be waving
 And the old first word fest art fest is happening in my district Friday and Saturday, and Sarah Heidinger and many other volunteers who have really worked hard to make sure that this is something for the neighborhood. And I'd like to thank my colleague Chris Scanlon who is the South District Council member who also helps support this event. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Any others. Majority Leader motion to adjourn second by Council Member Joseph Golombak Jr.
 well i'm just saying person
 Okay, they don't have it. I think it was a good idea. All right. Well, yeah. So I'm always willing to get in touch with her. So I don't really need to call her. I'm not here. I'm just trying to communicate. Oh, oh, we're not there? I told her I was still together with her and we're all pretty well-versed. We could support it. Okay, well, we're all fine. But you know, I just said, I don't really like the feeling about it. I'm just trying to get in touch with her. I feel like we're all pretty well-versed. I don't really need to call her. I think she's going to be able to bring us in. I think it's pretty nice. I think we're all fine.
 yeah