Roll call. Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Councilmember Fontana. Here. Councilmember Francik. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Acting Council President Scanlon. Here. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Please rise for the pledge of allegiance. I would like to welcome to the floor Reverend Al Warner for our invocation. I'd ask Mr. Rivera and Mr. White to join me today and Bishop Angel Gauthier via email as well for all the things that are churning around us even at this point. We watched the evening. I think we're stunned at the level of destruction that's happening across this country and across the Caribbean. But first, Mr. Rivera, just a few thoughts in terms of how it's impacting and affecting so many people with Puerto Rico in the eye of the storm tomorrow. Thank you very much, Reverend. I think as you mentioned, we've all seen the devastation that it has brought upon the United States, the southwest part of the United States and Texas, Irma, Jose, and now the storm that's currently out there. And the effect that it has on not only the property, but the human toll and the emotional toll that it has. The tension and the stress of many of the folks that live here in the United States, for the relatives that live out in the Caribbean. We all have relatives and friends that live out there. But this country always comes through. I mean, we come together in times like this to help people people in different places, just as our council president today is in Houston or going to Houston, Texas, to help the folks from the storm, the Hurricane Irma. I think things like this, situations like this, brings this country together to help other people, and we're so grateful for that. Mr. White. Thank you. And I share in just being appreciative of the country that we live in. I know my family, on behalf of Bishop Pershing, who has done this routinely when it comes to the death of Christ, that he wants to be involved in this particular case. And here with one of the city of Buffalo, the number of organizations that are gathering things for people in Houston and Florida, it warms their hearts that we are still a country of good natured, caring people. that hear about our fellow man, even though hundreds of miles away, we can have those who are in distress. So I'm thankful to be able to say a few words, and we all have the common council who has taken the place to assist in gathering things for people who right now have nothing other than just hope. Thank you. and our first going with the consul president as he heads south even later today i asked pastor bishop angel gauzier for response most of you know him here he said as our people are praying and you may not know that he has a home here and one in puerto rico as our people are praying and interceding for the lord to walk over them and their loved ones um The governor and his administration have begun immediate preparation for thousands of families in all municipal areas of Puerto Rico to seek refuge and evacuate the closest shelters that are now open. Hurricane Maria could begin threatening the Virgin Islands sometime this evening, Puerto Rico and its satellite islands tomorrow. They've not had a Category 4 or 5 hurricane since 1928, and it could be catastrophic. But, I did not know this, a ship from the Federal Emergency Management Agency arrived today with more than a million gallons of water and 111 generators, and the island has already set to house 67,000 people across 450 shelters. So there's a lot of response and preparation happening. I think our prayers would be very valued and appreciated. We could pray with me. Father, as we watch these storms unfold and we think, as Mr. Rivera said so well, not just about the toll on dollars and homes destroyed, but families' lives radically impacted. And Lord, there are congregations here today with family members and friends in that Caribbean swath that right now are filled with fear and panic as they watch the news. It's not just a news report to them. It's talking about life and death issues for people they love and value. We've got alongside the citizens of Buffalo who are being impacted, Texas, Louisiana, Florida, the Keys, the Caribbean, Puerto Rico, so many different places. And we ask that you, O God, the God who speaks peace in days of trouble, even now would speak into those hearts and minds and lives the peace of Christ. We pray for the Council President as he travels. May he represent this city as he always does, marvelously well, and the spirit of Christ travel with him. Thank you, Father, for your presence in these times of trouble. And as Mr. Wyatt said so well, that, Lord, in these dark times, oftentimes our nation does it very badly. And our God many times works best in dark situations. Would you do it again, we ask now, in your precious son's name. Amen. Council members, any memoriams? Council member Fontana. Thank you. We often name those who have passed, and a lot of times it's a little bit of a celebration for them. And this is one today. Although dying at the only age of 61, James K. McCada, retired state heating specialist. James was responsible for all the state prison's heating systems across the state from here to Albany. Very, very busy man. He was one of many, many children, 14 children. 16. He had 16 brothers and sisters, including himself. He was number 13 of 16 children in his family. He married Miss Kelly, and she was one of 12. So the marriage there included many, many cousins and brothers and sisters. So we pause today, and James was a member of our Babcock Street Boys and Girls Club alumni. Just a wonderful person, and missing him way too soon at the age of 61. Council Member Glenbeck. Thank you Mr. Acting President. We lost Lee Archambault Valpo, a friend of mine's mom, knew her almost my entire life, was no longer living in the city of Buffalo in Riverside but she had been active for many many years before in All Saints Church, the seniors and other groups in the neighborhood. She's going to be very very sorely missed by her children especially Anthony, Tony and the grandchildren. council member wyatt thank you mr chair um mr president i just want to give acknowledgement and prayers to the family of robert crippen um i know he passed some weeks ago but i just happened to be going through the newspaper and mr crippen was someone that was very hopeful when true bethel moved from 491 east ferry to 907. we didn't have a lot of money But he came with his faith and effort to support us in putting HVAC units in. He was one of the first minority contractors in the city of Buffalo. So we just want to pray for his family and his loss, because he was someone that was an angel to the True Bethel Baptist Church when we first got established at 907. Thank you. Also, as we do each week, we keep in mind and in thoughts those who have given their lives in defense of this nation, and in particular this week, if we could keep in our thoughts and prayers the memory and the families of the two soldiers who lost their lives in the past two weeks, so we could take a moment of silence now. Okay, on a motion by Mr. Rivera, seconded by Mr. Golombek, the minutes of the stated meeting held on September 5th, 2017 were approved. All the late files are before us. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing none, we will proceed to call the items before us. Jerry, from the top, please. I'll hand it over to the Council President. For the record, Council President has joined us. Thank you. From the top. From the top. Mr.
 Chairman. Item 1. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 53 out of order. 53. Motion to adopt the discharge.
 Okay. Second by Council Member Ferreira-Leto. Another motion is to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member White. And the cap? And the cap. Item 1, submission of monthly report, 311 calls. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Glumley. Item 2, appoint senior account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Blingo. Item 3, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 4, information report on HUD home program construction costs. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Cook. Item 5, appoint associate auditor. Motion to send items 5 through 9 to civil service. Second by Council Member Frenzel. From the Department of Public Works, item 10, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by President Putz. Item 11, change of contract, Lairo Engineers. Motion to approve items 11 through 15. Seconded by Council Member Golumba. From the Corporation Council, item 16, claims committee agenda. Motion to same to the claims committee. Seconded by Council Member Golumba. Item 17, inclusionary zoning checklist. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council. Councilmember Franczak. Councilmembers, if you haven't seen it, and I want to thank Corporation Council for the checklist because it gives them a bird's eye view, or will give them a bird's eye view, of what councilmembers what some of their preferences are when we talk about inclusionary zoning. So it is so important that you fill those out because, and again I want to thank Corporation Council for that, instead of drafting a policy and not already getting a feeling of where council members are and some of those questions, and obviously this is public, um... are you know do you feel it should be mandatory for all projects or some or what you know those type of things so this is a i wanna i think it's a really good bird's eye view to begin to draft that policy. And I do take note that they did call it an inclusionary zoning checklist. And so they are moving toward that. So please, within the next few days, take a few moments, fill this out and get it back to Corporation Council as soon as possible. Next item. Item 18, appoint Assistant Corporation Counsel to... Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. From the Department of Permits and Inspections, item 19, Food Store 999 Broadway. Motion to send items 19 through 26 to legislation. Okay, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 27, purchase, single source purchase. Motion to approve items 27 through 29. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item 30, item recalled from Mayor, bond resolution. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Franze. Item 31, liquor license applications. Motion to receive and file item 31 through 34. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 35, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Miscellaneous items, item 36, annual city hall incident reports. Motion to receive and file item 36... through 40. second by councilman uh what so 39 40 40 oh including 40. all right take note of that all the way to 40 motion stands next item item 41 opposition boys church rehab motion to send cd items 41 and 42. second by councilman frenzak item 43 240 kensington motion to adopt second by councilman franzek Petitions, item 44, use 1669 hurdle for a tavern. Motion to send to ledge and city planning board, item 44 and 45. Second by council member Fenton. Committee, civil service, item 1, appoint senior accountant. Motion to approve items number 1, including item number 12, through item number 12. Number 5 is a receiving file. Excuse me, item number 1 through 4. Second by council, majority leader. Second by council. Item 5, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader. Item 6, appoint Assistant Auditor. Approved item number 6 through and including number 12. Seconded by President Pocon. Item 13, notice of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Ferreira. Finance Committee, item 14, Shays Lease. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 15, New York State Public Service Commission public hearing information. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 16, permission for approval of contract renewal of G4S secure solutions. There are some conditions here, so motion to approve. The conditions are that the council will have a member of G4, an employee of G4, at all times. council, public council proceedings on Tuesdays and any other time council was in session. That was agreed upon at the beginning of the contract somehow kind of got lost in the sauce and I guess we were getting at times relief workers And so the, what I was told is they did not need to amend the contract because it was already in the contract to pay them hourly. So it will probably mean more of what they have been paying, but that was the agreement from day number one. So we wanted to put that on the record and the mayor's been talked, we've talked with the mayor and with that's involved and so that we wanted to make sure it's on the record i think there's about a twenty thousand dollar change if any so it's it's not draconian absolutely absolutely so a motion to approve with those conditions what's that commission councilman wingman thank you mr chair uh the the the contract that we have with v4s um i'm not particularly sure i can't see the the the exhaustive copy of it or the annotated version of the contract but the expectations of the officer as it relates to who they're letting in who they're not letting in what the protocol is for those who have wristbands that have certain medical conditions as well as what's expected of them at the entrances on both sides of the building Because many times I come in the building and the officer has his head down looking at their cell phone. And if it's an employee entrance only, instead of ensuring that only employees enter into that area, they put a contraband... structure up so that if anyone is coming in they can wind them there and let them in on the employee entrance as well. I'm not sure if that's something that we agreed upon. But if it's an employee entrance, it should be strictly for employees and the guard should be at the door guarding the entrance and not sitting at a chair next to a table on their cell phone. that disturbs me a lot in the morning. And also, they can also ensure that the traffic is not stopping in that moving lane right next to the building because I've seen many cars have to slam on the brakes because there's a car sitting there with their hazards on that I believe our security detail can ensure that that lane stays a free-flowing lane. So I don't know where to find the contract. I'm sorry, but I want to make sure that it's understood that if you're going to secure an entrance, secure the entrance and don't just provide just a present but secure it and not sitting at a table on your cell phone. So I would like to see that explained or expressed somewhere so that they understand that that's a part of their their job description. If it's not, maybe we should I mean, if you want to add it to the, now, I think that we should have had full contract that's not on there back on the record. If that's something you want to add to it, or I guess what my question is, are you asking Are you okay with approving it? Is that something you want to add to? I would really like for that to be part of the condition to be very, very, very clear that if they're going to secure an entrance, they should be securing it, not just providing a presence there. Because right now, it seems as though if all they're doing is providing a presence and not really securing the area, people who come in, instead of, you know, deterring them from coming in that way and pointing to the employee entrance, they're still accepting people off of the street and then winding them. I'm not sure if there's some type of legal concern with that or not. So that's what I was checking out. So what I believe in, well, it's on the record if I say it, Side entrance is always prepared in case they have to utilize that entrance and close down another entrance. So if there was an emergency at an entrance and they needed to use the employee entrance to bring it, but they shouldn't be allowing people without an employee ID card to come through that entrance. But from what I'm told, the reason for that is if they had to switch, they wouldn't have to get that equipment over to that side. Now, I could be wrong. Because we're not in a committee meeting, I didn't ask anybody to come in and talk about it today. But if you could be more specific, if there is a condition that you want added, if you besides saying secure because they might be muddled in just saying... So just so that there's no ambiguity in what I'm saying, I would like the security officer from G4S Secure Solutions, I would like for them to be posted at the door, either inside the door or outside of the door, and not sitting at a table inside of a building with both doors open, allowing anyone to walk in. I want them to be at the door, either on the outside or the inside, securing it. Because I know in the wintertime, they may stand on the inside of that door. But at least they are there securing that entrance, ensuring that only people with badges and council members and the mayor and the controller are allowed to go through those employee entrances. Okay. Council Member Fontana? This is a similar conversation. When they came to us with the original plan, remember the door that was in question here wasn't going to be guarded at all. They were going to do like a buzzer on it and have a camera on it. And this council actually insisted that there be a guard at that door, so we thought that would be a weak point in the plan. And all the council members agreed at the time. So what Mr. Wingo was saying is not something that's new. We actually asked for someone to be stationed at this door. right along because we felt this would be a weak link in the security plan if we left that door open. They do use a bit of courtesy at the door. They were given pictures of each council member to know who we are. If there's someone new at that door, I will take the time to show them my card out of my wallet as a courtesy to them because I don't want to just walk by and say, hey, I'm Fontana. I'm walking by. They don't know if I've been here 20 years, if they're new. So I give them the courtesy. I make eye contact. If the eye contact's positive, then I keep walking. If it's not, then I'll give them my card. I did speak with their supervisor. He does have some concerns about cell phone use. He's spoken to me about that, and I don't know if we could tell someone to stand here all day long. Sometimes they do sit, but that eye contact should be made, and they do stand if there's more than one person coming through. If they do see who's a sharp dresser, Mr. Wingo, coming through, they might see him at the door already and say, it's Wingo, he could just come right through, you know what I mean? They might see you ahead of time before you see them, but that could be addressed with their management. I think this is more of a management issue than it is. contractual did the contract go up significantly or is it just what we added that caused the difference in the price I don't think that there was a significant increase not what we did but the original one before I don't think there was a huge in that okay we should have I think when at this point of things and I agree we need that whole contract it should have been followed yeah just to address one of the issues that mr. Fontana brought up regarding the standing at the one poles I believe they rotate they do rotate so they so they're one standing out one particular post the entire day. Right. That's true. So, I mean, whether they're only there, I don't know what the range of the posts, what the time is. I don't want to give up their strategy. Yeah. But at the end of the day, I mean, you know, I'd be more comfortable if I walked in the building and if there's an armed guard there, he's not looking down on his cell phone because at that point, his peripheral vision is dramatically and drastically reduced. So I'd rather prefer that, you know, they're not on their cell phones looking down, sitting in the building at a table in a chair. I'd rather them, you know, they need to be at the door securing that entrance for the safety of everyone in the building. And that's consistent with what we argued originally. Okay. Councilman Frey, then? Okay. Thank you. I just want to suggest before, if we're amending or changing any of the contract, to have Corporation Council look at the, I know when cars get backed up there and sometimes cars stop, but I'd be concerned if we had it in their contract that they had to do that. And if it's always windy, icy, and cold there, and we'd hate to see someone be required to be out there and get injured there, and to open up the city to liability because they were forced to do that. So I would just ask that Corp Council looks at that and read something. So I don't know if you heard what he was saying about the outside, because I don't know if their contract is just about inside of City Hall. Their jurisdiction would be the street area. I'm telling people to move. I'm not sure. Yeah, I think it's apples and oranges, but we should insist that public works install one of those stop signs within the crosswalk that says stop for pedestrians. I've asked for four years. That has to go up because that area is very windy. Linda from the council president's office when Mr. Pitts was here, she actually fell. and was out for months because she fell there trying to cross the street quick to avoid a car, and so the wind pushed her right down. So that should definitely be put there because people don't know the law when it comes to crosswalks. If it's an open crosswalk with no stoplight in the middle of a block, if there's pedestrians standing near that stopwalk, the car is supposed to stop. pedestrian go through, that's the law. It doesn't work at intersections with lights, but it works when there's no light apparatus. And people fly through there to try to catch the light to go near the church, and they're going to hit somebody one of these days. But I agree with Mr. Faralletto, it would be also cumbersome to ask the security guards to do this, but there should be a visual sign there to stop the car. Please record me in a negative. Okay, so on the entire contract or on the... I'm in a negative on the entire contract. Okay. So let me have Corporation Counsel talk about what she just expressed to me about going out to the street. Good afternoon. Karen Gordon, Corporation Council. I do believe that our Deputy Council, Kevett Chambers, was the one working on this contract. I will verify, but I also wanted to mention that as it relates to having the workers man the outside area, the traffic lane, in front of the building, I don't think that's something that it might be required in the contract or even something that it could do that's within the jurisdiction because we're talking about two different entity that's vehicle and traffic law that will no mandate that probably a traffic police or something like that do that sort of job and not someone who is involved in the work inside a building. So that might be something that we want to make sure before we request or ourselves. And so I'm just going to try to pull the croutons out of the salad and make sure we're doing this right. Your amendment was for, it did not include the outside. So we can, because I agree with you now on this, that it is very agitating to come across that street and people are parked there. And I thought maybe they could. be given a number to dial straight to traffic enforcement, where they could call traffic enforcement right away, get them there, and get the people tagged. Because I've literally seen people park there, coming in to get a sticker and park there. So I think that might work. So is that something that's feasible for us to have the security office to call law enforcement? I mean, the parking enforcement, to have someone come and ticket those cars? Yeah. I'm Karen Gordon, Corp. Counsel. I believe we could make a request to have somebody from parking enforcement out there, or to have some person that would have the jurisdiction to stop vehicles or ticket vehicles, you know, for when they were to run a light or if they were to almost run over a pedestrian, which is something that I also see all the time. So I think one of the things, if you allow me to kind of jump in here, one is talking about contract, the other is talking about procedure. Okay. And I think if we could pull them apart, because usually some of this wouldn't go in the contract as much as in the procedures. And maybe what could occur is a resolution be filed that would list out the procedure, the procedural changes or enhancements that you would like to see, because some of it is a contract, because it would have to go back to Corporation Council. So, for instance, the first part of the amendment has already been discussed and agreed upon with the administration, and that's to provide a person in the chamber. I'm not sure if we add the amendment, whether we would then have to send this back for Corporation Council to then go over it. So, am I correct? You would. So we would have to send this back again back to committee. And before we do that, I would want Kevin Helford to come down, because he's the one who told us. It was time-sensitive two weeks ago, so I want to be able to get some explanation and move it. So the car issue isn't the priority here. The priority is the guy standing at the door, posting at the door, either inside or outside. That's the priority. The car issue can be done. at a later time. I think the most important issue is the safety of the folks inside the building, and that would be for the security officer to actually secure the door versus being on the inside at a table on the phone. So, Majority Leader, and if you all can ring in, and the only reason, because as this digital thing gets better, they'll be able to click your comments if you ring in. Mr. Chairman, we'll agree to... eventually approve this contract and during the course of the year incidents will happen that are fluid. And we work with both the police department, I think it was Rinaldo who was the contact person between BPD and G4. And so there are going to be incidents and problems that will occur during that we don't go back and amend the contract. Those Those are procedural processes that they, that we can bring to their attention and say, look, we'd rather have the security guard there versus there. And it may change next week to a different location. And so that is fluid. I don't think we need to amend the contract. I just think we just need to make sure that the concerns of the council members change. are addressed with regards to people walking in, how attentive they are to the people that are walking through the doors, whether they should be in the positions there. And that's something that the administrators and supervisors can direct their their subordinates to take care of. So I don't know if we need to amend the contract. I agree. I don't think this is a matter of amending a contract. We have the contract in front of us. What I think we need to do is just, whether it's a resolution, as you mentioned, identify those points of concerns that council members have in terms of where the police officer should be. Should they be in the front? Should they be in the back? Should they be alternating up in the council floors? We didn't even do an amendment to have the guards here. We have an agreement that they will be here. It wasn't an amendment to the contract. We just approved it. Make sure that that condition is there. So this is what I'd like to do if everyone is comfortable with this. Hold this item in abeyance. Kevin Helfer is coming down. He can tell us whether it's time-sensitive and work through those issues, and we'll continue on with our agenda. Is that okay? Move is to hold the item in abeyance. Motion is to hold in abeyance. Second by President Protell. Thank you. Next item. Item 17, drug asset forfeiture wire transfers. Motion to receive in file 17 and 18. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development Committee. Item 19, permission to extend designated developer 124 from Maryland. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Protso. Item 20. 20 parking meters on Tonawanda Street. Motion to receive and file items 20 and 21. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 22, 297 Babcock Street, Encroachment. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Legislation Committee, item 23, food store license 365 Auburn. Motion is to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 24, food store license 1358 Broadway. 24 and 25, motion to approve with conditions as already established in the Fillmore District and adopted earlier. That do not change. at this time they have second by council member golombic 26 food store license 478 almon avenue 26 and 27 motion to approve second by council member wingle and 28 food store license 426 hurdle avenue 28 originally came without recommendation motion is now to approve second by council member wyatt item 29 mobile food truck 151 fargo avenue 29 and 30 motion to approve second by council member column item 31 property manager license That originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve. Second by Councilman White. Item 32. Item 32, secondhand dealer, 1413 Hurdle Avenue. 32 and 33, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Phelan. Item 34, sidewalk cafe, 79 West Chippewa. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 35, special use permit, 1000 Furman Boulevard. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 36, special use permit, 33 Virginia Place. Item 36 and 37, motion to approve. Second by President Brooksham. Item 38, special use permit 2337 Main Street. 38 through and including 40, motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 41, zoning map amendment 124 Greenwood. That originally was without recommendation. Motion is now to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 42, use 820 hurdle for an electronic massage center. Item 42, I defer to the District Council Member, Mr. Golombak. Thank you Mr. Chairman. As much as I'm not a fan of LED billboards in the city of Buffalo, and I don't think that this is the right place for one, I sat down with a couple of attorney friends of mine looking over the green code. I don't believe that if we denied this that we would be able to win in the court of law. But that being said, I am going to sit down and take a look at this section of the green code to see if we can put a little bit more teeth in it in regards to billboards in general and LED in particular. So hesitantly, I would recommend approval as much as I'm not fond of this type of a project. I just don't think that we could win, and I don't want to hamstring somebody for following the rules. all right second by councilman and i'll vote no on that and record mr france that in the negative next item item 43 use 561 delaware motion to approve second by council member for your letter 144 used 1127 hurdle for tavern and this is the wishes of the delaware district councilman who wishes to approve all right second by the delaware council member 45 years 497 minnesota We already approved this discharge. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Yeah, we approved the discharge, so it's motion to approve. Second by Councilman Wyatt. Councilman Fuller. I was trying to get to motion. Motion to revisit. Is it a house? Motion to revisit item 16 in ledge. The motion is to revisit item 16 in ledge before us. I ain't answering. We have Kevin Helfer here on. Oh, you're ready to go back to that. I'm sorry. Hold on. Hold on. can we hold off on that motion because he had a floor um on this item did you have a question number 45. 45 is still before us i just wanted to approve it with conditions the facility will have a one-year renewal whereby a community meeting will be called to obtain feedback from residents and the facility must be open to the community say that again because i want to make sure and you're going to submit that right i'm going to say just say one more time so we get here The conditions are the facility will have a one-year renewal, whereby a community meeting will be called to obtain feedback from the residents, and the facility must be open to the community. Okay. Is that a house? All right. With those conditions included for item 45, I believe Council Member Wyatt had a second one. Now we can do the revisit. Motion to revisit item 16 in legislation. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Thank you for coming down, Commissioner. I knew that this was time sensitive in the past. One of the councilmembers had some concerns, so I just want to be able to address them so we can put this to bed and move it on. Sure. Thank you, Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wingo, if you could restate the concerns for the Commissioners. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Commissioner, Commissioner Helfer, thank you for coming down. We understand that you are very busy. You do appreciate your diligence in what you do with the parking enforcement. As it relates to the workers and the pedestrians who are walking across, I don't know the name of the street over here, between the ramp and City Hall, Laminate Street.
 Perkins?
 Perkins. Yes, there's a crosswalk there of two moving lanes, two lanes. on the city hall side, of which cars like to stand in the one lane. We were inquiring whether or not it would be a term... feasible or legal for the G4S officers to have some type of phone number to call to have those cars ticketed because on numerous occasions I've been crossing that crosswalk and cars who are in that right lane, they have to slam on their brakes, swerve to the left lane to go around that car. And of course, again, too, under the recommendation and suggestion of Councilmember Fontana, to put up some type of signage that would suggest that they are to yield to pedestrians, because it is a crosswalk, or it's a stop for pedestrians. But is there any type of phone number that they can call so that they can have immediate access to parking enforcement? Is that something that's feasible? I don't think that's feasible and I'll tell you why, but I think you're on the right track and I think we'll have a solution that will work for everyone. The only reason I say that is a lot of cars will pull up and they'll park there for a minute, two minutes, three minutes, five minutes. Somebody will call us by the time we get there, they move. That's very frustrating for everybody. What I absolutely can do is work with G4S. and give them a ticket book so that when they see the violations, we do this at city court with their personnel as well, we do it with the Erie County sheriffs around the jail with their personnel as well. I think that'd be a great solution so when they see it, because they're right there as you know manning that door, we can get them issued a ticket. Now my people are downtown, but they can't be everywhere at every minute, and that's a little bit of the problem. And I agree with you, I've noticed that area recently It never was like that before, but now that we have media parking in front of City Hall, and that was a request of of yours, Council President, which we agree with as well, so that they're not parking out on the McKinley Monument, those spaces are empty, so we see people coming around that corner and parking now, and it is absolutely a safety hazard. So I think we have the solution. I will work with Lieutenant Rinaldo. I'll work with G4S. And as for the signage, that doesn't come out of my department, but I'll talk to Commissioner Stepniak after this meeting, and I agree that some signage there would provide more clarity as well. So is that within the scope of the G4S to have a ticket book, or how legal, I mean, as far as our legal opinion? Karen Gordon, Corporation Council. I do believe the commissioner is a commissioner of parking, and so he would have the purview to ticket individuals. And if he, if G4S is under his jurisdiction as well, then I think it's something that he should be able to do if he is. if the department is working under his control. So what I can do to provide you with more certainties, I can look into it a little bit closer, only because my concern might be that if you're providing or asking for this extra... Duty, thank you. If you're asking that they provide that extra duty, that might be something that might come with it, some liability in case if they don't perform the duty that you're asking for them to do and something was to happen, as well as we will have to look into whether or not it's something that should be in the contract and negotiate it. So I believe if you're going that route, you may want to... I mean, I don't want to suggest that the whole the item, but if this is something that is dear to you and important, you might want to consider that so that you get a better clarity on what would need to be done before you make a final decision. So we absolutely want to make sure that we perform our due diligence on our end, as far as the council. So we want to, uh speak with the commissioner and see what the options are if it is within his uh scope to authorize them to do that then of course naturally we would do our background research and due diligence to make sure that that's something that's feasible as far as the other issue with the officer standing at the door and being present at the door and not inside the building at a table, I think that is something that we can just speak to the supervisors about. That should be within their scope to just fix that protocol or procedural issue within, kind of find their own protocol within G4S. So I do appreciate the commissioner coming down and speaking on that issue. And again too, I think that's a great point as far as liability. We don't want to have too much exposure as far as G4S leaving their post to go and ticket a vehicle. You know, because then they're engaging in another type of way where they're supposed to be securing the safety of people inside the building. Now they're more or less operating in the capacity of a law enforcement officer by leaving the premise, going out into the street and ticketing a vehicle. So I see all of these things happening, and I just want to make sure that we are exercising prudence as we move forward. But again, I do think that's a great idea. I do appreciate the commissioner coming down to express that idea. But I believe we do need to wait, or at least take our time on this. This is not such a pressing issue. We just don't want anybody to get hurt. I don't want to see anyone get hurt. As many times as I've crossed that street over on Perkins and seen vehicles have to slam on their brakes to go around the car, I don't want to see that happen. So thank you again, Commissioner, for coming down and speaking on that issue. But, Mr. President, I think that I'm fine with approving the amendment with the contract. Okay. the way it is but as far as a procedural issue we can move forward with that and then we can continue the dialogue with the commissioner of parking enforcement to ensure that we are actually that we're actually uh being prudent in our commissioners come down now so we can get those questions answered so the only um big condition is the condition we spoke about before about the council meetings And I believe they were here staffing today, if I'm not mistaken.
 Absolutely. The supervisors. And just real quick, just for the interim until we get this figured out, you asked originally the number. Just call 311 or have your constituents call 311. That immediately, as soon as that call is logged, it comes to all my supervisors, my dispatcher and myself. We will dispatch it immediately. But like I said, sometimes it could take three, four, five minutes if the closest parking personnel is, you know, half a dozen blocks away. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Appreciate it. All right. So that's approved. Council Member Fontana. Just briefly, we did speak about a few concerns this morning, this afternoon, but we've also, and many times before this, spoke to the professionalism and also the – the good nature of all the people that work for g4s so we want to reiterate that today so that way they understand the council has in many many times every council member spoken highly of their professionalism and courtesy to the public and to the people that visit our building here in city hall so we thank them for their um for their hard work absolutely thank you all right we've done enough for that mr chairman Oh, I'm sorry. Record Council Member Franczak in the negative. Please. I think he's been in negative all the way through. That's right. He's consistent. I misspoke. That was 16 in finance. The item is 16 in finance. Motion now is to approve. Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fontana. Resolution. I'm sorry. Which one? Already noted. One objection. Or one negative. One vote in it. Next item. Resolutions. Item 46. Burrill and Chill Fee Waiver. Motion to approve items 46 through 48. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 49. New Standards for Handling Companion Animals by Executing Warrants. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Council Member Golombek has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. What this resolution does is it's basically advertising a certified behavior consultant by the name of James Crosby who's giving a lecture on best practices for handling companion animals. It's going to be on October 27th. It's basically best practices, dealing with wild animals, what other cities do. And while I commend our Buffalo Police Department because I think that they do an outstanding job, as you know I've always been a big supporter of theirs, there's always room for improvement. And I think one of the areas where there's room for improvement is some newer best practices, training on how to deal with dogs in particular. Crosby standards are quickly becoming best practices across the country and I'd like to see Buffalo at the forefront I'd also like to see if we do so adopt this item that we would like to see representatives from the Buffalo Police and the Sheriff's Department to attend this meeting that we would actually send out an invitation to them requesting them to go to this because you know and once again it's not a criticism of anything that the Buffalo Police is are currently doing, but it's a sense of moving forward with the way that they're doing it in other cities and, you know, getting ahead of the curve, if at all possible. So thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Second. It was already second? Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second by President Protso. item 50 425 goodyear tax fee waiver motion is sent to legislation second by councilmember wingo item 51 accept draft lwrp from new york state department of state review motion to adopt second by council member white on 52 budget and personnel amendment fire administrator motion to approve second by councilman free letter and 53 was already done item 54 request for home rule on red light traffic cameras motion is sent to legislation second by councilmember white item 55 designate parkland Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member, President Proxime Scanlon has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. This resolution is calling for the abandonment of the right-of-way in front of the public library system central branch and establishing the first outdoor reading park in the city of Buffalo. I just wanted to take a moment to thank Deputy Parks Commissioner Andy Rabb and City Engineer Mike Finn as well as representatives for the Buffalo-Nary County Public Library System, and in particular, the director, Mary Jean Jakubowski, who's here with several of her partners for their cooperation in bringing this idea to fruition. This is going to be an incredible addition to downtown Buffalo, where people are going to be able to enjoy children's story time, family programming, and author talks, as well as other activities. And so, again, I just wanted to publicly thank all those interested parties for their collaboration on this project.
 Absolutely. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, September 26th, 9.45
 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, September 26th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, September 26th, 2 p.m. Special committees, Committee on Police Oversight, Tuesday, September 26th, 11 a.m. Committee on Claims, Friday, September 29th, 1 p.m. Thank you, President, for the President Pro Temp, for opening up the meeting. My wife's great grandmother passed, and so I was at the funeral and actually left from the cemetery to come and to the meeting. So Thelma Livingston, for the record, and we truly miss. Ellicott District, actually University District lived. She lived in university but worshipped in Ellicott, so I'll take that credit on the Ellicott side. But just attended by a lot of people from the community. A lot of people know her grandson, Jerry Livingston, who's recorded all over the country playing the... lead guitar on a lot of albums, a lot of gospel albums. And so I wanted to be here to do the people's business, but be with my wife to do that, to do the family business. So thank you for opening up. Council members, any announcements? Council Member Wyatt. Thank you Mr. Chair, Mr.
 President. I wanted to announce to the residents of the City of Buffalo tonight, oh, tomorrow night, excuse me, the re-evaluating information session regarding the assessments. So we want to make certain that University District residents are aware at Diefendorf Hall from 6 to 7.30 on UB South Campus. It's open to anyone. I'm actually, the assessment evaluations through citywide, I believe my colleagues all have sessions in their districts. So if you can't come tonight, well tomorrow night, in my district, you can go to another district to hear about the reassessment. Very, very, very important. I know people have gotten letters, they have questions. This is your opportunity to hear and ask questions about your assessment of the most important assets you have. Also want to invite those in the LaSalle Avenue street to come for a special community meeting regarding a traffic proposal. We talked initially about making it one way of LaSalle because of the problems that Bailey Seaford experiencing. And the residents came out, they opposed that. And we came back and went to Traffic Engineering and Eric Smarter and Mike Finn came up with another proposal. And again, I just want to remind the residents, this is your community. And if you don't like something, come out, let's talk about how do we... bring forth a resolution and now we have one i think it's going to be something that the community is going to take i'm going to take hold to and that's going to take place tuesday september 26 at the edward saunders community center from 6 to 7 30. so we're just going to let the community know thank you all right councilman fontana I used to work Eric Smarter like a dog when I first started in the 90s. He must have replaced every stop sign in my district at one time, but he's been a valuable asset to the city of Buffalo for many years. Once again, the revaluation information sessions are coming forward to a neighborhood near you. You are allowed to go with anyone, ask any question that you want, so you don't have to specifically go to the one for your district. But sometimes the one that you're going to might be a little less busy than other districts. So it might be wise to catch one that's not as busy. But on ours, it's coming up to September 27th on a Wednesday, 6 p.m., over at the Autumnwood Senior Citizen Center on Clinton Street, 1800 Clinton. That is Wednesday, September 27th. It is not in the East Clinton Shopper this month. In the Shopper, it didn't make it. So residents that read the shopper every month to find out what's going on in the neighborhoods won't see this So that's why we're gonna send out postcards and I mentioned it everywhere. I could mention it publicly and on TV Autumnwood Center 1800 Clinton Wednesday September 27th you can find out about what's going to happen with assessments across the city Buffalo how that affects you and and what the actual real world results of that assessment change will be. Why don't we ask folks from AV and telecommunications at the end of this broadcast if they could just roll everybody's meeting at the credits, I guess you would call it the credits, and then also ask them if it hasn't already been done to put it on government and public access on the feed. Thank you. whatever you call it, the banner, you know, it's already on there. So let's make sure it rolls at the end of this taping. Thank you. Councilman Whittler? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am very, very pleased to announce and to invite everyone to the Freedom Wall on the corner of Michigan and Ferry in the Madison District. the Albright-Knox Art Gallery Public Art Initiative, along with the Michigan Street African American Heritage Corridor, they've collaborated to bring this wonderfully beautiful and colorful art exhibit on the corner of Fillmore and Michigan. I am so sorry, I got Fillmore on the brain, y'all. But it has a lot of our living and past black figures who have been instrumental in civil rights. such as Mama Charlene, everyone knows Charlene, Kaver Miller, Arthur E., George K. Arthur, who was also on the Common Council. We have so many different people who are up on the wall. We would just love for everyone to come out and enjoy the painstaking beauty, how meticulous, how much time they took in ensuring that that is just a beautiful work of art. And I'm hoping that they seal it with some type of a paint sealer so that the elements don't destroy it and if anything should ever happen to get on that beautiful wall it will be easily washed off but I'm just asking everyone to just go visit it, take pictures of it. We're sure this is going to be a feature for the city of Buffalo. I have so much pride in this piece of art over here in the Mastin District. So take the time to enjoy some of our greats in the African-American community and in Buffalo's history. I'm going to be honest. I'm rather jealous of it, that it's over in Mastin, and they didn't bring it up the street a little bit to the great Ellicott District. But it is in the African American Heritage Corridor because the boundaries go all the way down to there because you have Bethel Ami Church right across from it. So it's very appropriate and very beautiful and a lot of local artists. That's it? All right. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman Fontana.