Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the great public, which is the same as one engaged in our new era. It is a great pleasure to address this forum. Our council chaplain will come to introduce our guest chaplain for today. I'll bring you someone who's a stapler to the chambers of the council. Members. Thanks. Pastor James Childs is going to be joining us as guest invocator. The ministry goes back to 1994.
 Two men met in prison in Cape Vincent, New York, correctional facility, served God, and those two men started what now has become Back to Basics Outreach Ministries here in Buffalo. Prisoner rehab, court advocacy, youth strengthening programs, violence interruption, all core values, core ministries of our friend Pastor Giles then.
 Years later, Buffalo Peacemakers, the anti-violence initiative, and then all the collaboration that he has done with other anti-violence groups in this region and beyond. As he puts it, well, we take broken lives, give them hope, and God makes it happen. His life was full, his schedule packed. He was actually presenting what is happening in Buffalo at a national conference in Pittsburgh on May 14th.
 When his full life and schedule was suddenly interrupted, he quickly left Pittsburgh to return to the horrible murder scene around Topps on Jefferson. And he has been an anchor of the response to that tragic, awful day. He, I believe, is what the scripture in Matthew 10 and Luke 10 calls a man of peace.
 And the number of prayer vigils that I've been at with my friend, Pastor Giles, we were talking, we go back more than 20 years, our friendship. But it's gone deeper in these troubling times. Scripture says in those chapters that a man of peace in your village brings with him a blessing. Our city is blessed to have Pastor James Giles in our midst.
 Pastor, come and open us in prayer. And from all of us, thank you for the awesome work you have done around May 14th. And then your lesser known role last night involved at the Bills game and the one who brought victory to the team, Pastor James Giles. Thank you, my family. I consider all of you my family. I have very deep relationships with everybody around this table. God bless you on this day. Amen.
 to honor do to our bishop, but let us lift up our hearts and our minds toward God Almighty. Father in heaven, as always, we acknowledge our dependence upon you, and we thank you that things are as well as they are.
 And Lord, I especially thank you for these men that I gathered around this session, this forum, that you have raised them up to be ambassadors for our city, Lord. And as they decide and waver and weigh in on what's best for the city, Lord, I pray your anointing to be on each of them, that your divine guidance, Lord, will direct them as to what is best for the well-being of this community.
 I thank you for all that they have done. And I especially thank you, God, for the very people, Lord, that they have been charged with to provide for. We ask these blessings in the mighty name of Jesus. God bless you. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, chaplains, council members, memorials, council member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really kind of proud to celebrate the life of two gentlemen who passed in my district
 one whose sister came a far way to celebrate on behalf of her brother, Daniel Sullivan. He lived on Heath Street and actually, I believe, was born on Heath Street and talked to his sister because one of my block club leaders told me that, hey, Danny passed and we're going to have this will be a big hole in our street. And so I don't think I've ever met Danny.
 But his sister, I talked to her on the phone and she told me to go to the website, the funeral home. And I was amazed that I've never been on a website for someone who passed and see the number of comments was over 100 comments. And so that's not something that just happens.
 Danny was a kid, who cared about the people on his street. And there was a woman who was his next door neighbor who saw him grow up as a little boy who talked about how they looked out for Danny. He was small, but then he looked out for them when he became a man.
 And so we will definitely miss Danny Sullivan and the life and the caring attitude he had for the Heath Street Avenue residents. And we thank his sister for coming and sharing with us because I told her it was an honor for me to talk about someone who was so giving.
 If there was something broken, he would go get it fixed. And if it was something that it was, it didn't belong to him, he would pay for the repair and give it to them and say, oh, you don't have to give me anything. That's the type of person that we had in Danny Sullivan. So we thank his family and we pray for his family and the loss of his life. Then another gentleman, Mr. James Reese, who lived on Martha Avenue. Mr. Reese came from Alabama.
 and just one of the nicest people you would ever want to meet. I was able to give the proclamation memoriam to his wife, and everyone was just glowing talking about this man, this gentle man. Today we honor these two men and I ask for the prayers in the City of Buffalo on behalf of Mr. Reese and Danny Sullivan. Absolutely. Council Member Golombak. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Mary Ann Majerski passed away after a long battle with cancer. She actually moved out of the area with her children who lived in North Carolina, and she just passed away this past month. She's going to be very, very sorely missed.
 By her family, her friends, and those that had already been missing her from the Riverside neighborhood of my district. Also young man, Tyler Dagenfelder. He had been fighting a multitude of chronic illnesses for quite some time, and he succumbed last week. He's gonna be very sorely missed by his mom, Colleen.
 as well as other relatives. Joe Yedlowski, who was Sandy in my office's Papa Joe, it was her stepdad. He died rather unexpectedly about a week ago. I had just seen him a couple of weeks ago. I was doing one of my walks down Nassar Avenue and he drove by in his car and he beeped and he waved at me. He always used to stop and ask me if I needed a ride. He was that kind of a guy. And I said, no, no, no, I'm fat. I'm going for a walk. Um,
 and, uh, he's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and friends. Uh, and last, but certainly not least, uh, James, Jim Yates, uh, former Riverside resident. Uh, he actually was my little league baseball coach, uh, at Black Rock Riverside little league when I was a kid. And he's actually the reason that I'm here today. Um,
 when I was 18 years old, he called me up and said, uh, Joe, I'm running for council. And he ran against David Tucky, who ended up becoming my mentor. Um, but I told Jim, I said, Oh, you were a great coach or good guy. And I went out and I did campaigning and door to door for him. And, uh, he lost, he got creamed. Uh,
 So that began a long point of me supporting people who lose. So if you got somebody running against you, Mr. President, have me endorse them. It's almost guaranteed that the other person will win. But Jim was a great guy. He's pre-deceased by his wife, Jane, and his children are still here with us. And it was good to see them, but not under those circumstances. Thank you, Mr. Sherrod. We...
 I'm asking that the city of Buffalo, please keep in your thoughts and prayers the family of the Buntons as Lady and Mother Wanda Lee Buntin passed away last week. She has been and always will be a fixture at Antioch Baptist Church where her husband, the late Reverend William A. Buntin was the pastor.
 And it's just amazing to see how the city of Buffalo comes together to celebrate the life of such a strong and tall woman of God. And she was known all across the state. And she served as the president of the Ministers, Wives and Widows of Buffalo, New York of Isenity. She served as the president of the Great Lakes Ministers, Wives and Widows.
 And she also served in various offices in the Empire State Missionary Baptist Convention.
 and I don't know if it's just her spirit, but for some reason my wife is following in all of her footsteps except the singing part. My wife can sing, she can sing, but she can't sing like uh Mother Bunton. But we thank God for her life, we thank God for her sacrifice, all the many years that she taught us as little people coming to Vacation Bible School at the church.
 And one song in particular that she taught us was, Abraham had many sons. I am one of them and so are you. And we will go through that entire song and right hand, left hand, head up, down, turn around, sit down. And she just was always a lot of fun for the children. And I'm asking that you please pray for all of her children who of course are all living and they will all be here
 on Saturday to celebrate her life at the Antioch Baptist Church, which will be Saturday at noon. The wake will begin at 10 o'clock.
 but the funeral services the homeboy celebration will be at 12. i'm asking that we keep her lifted keep her family lifted keep them in prayer as we send this stalwart of a soldier in god's army home on saturday her son will be preaching the eulogy and her grandson who was her pastor will be uh officiating the service thank you mr chair
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Lovejoy District lost a community leader in Dr. Teresa Harris-Tigg, who lived in our Bacos Boulevard development. She was a deacon, but also a Buffalo Public School teacher, and she served on the Board of Education for two terms. Just a great community leader, and it was great to see how many people came out and celebrated her home going, so she'll be sorely missed.
 We also remember Miss Patricia Rice, who was the head of our nurses ministry at the church, longtime Buffalo resident, and would always take care of everyone's health. As a matter of fact, she started one of the largest
 health fairs in the city. And many people were taken away in an ambulance from the health fair because they didn't know they had high blood pressure and other things that when they were there, they discovered and hopefully saved lives. So she will be missed. And we always remember those who gave their life for our country and for other countries since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence.
 Thank you. Today we have a special presentation by Councilmember Joseph Golombek. Thank you Mr. President. This month is
 juvenile cancer awareness month. And friends of mine, some of you might remember from the Buffalo Police Department, Jim and Christine Giardina have family members that have been touched, sadly, by juvenile cancer. And they let me know that this was the month that it was being announced.
 I don't want to say celebrated, that's not the appropriate term, but recognized, you know, the number of people, especially young people that L among us. And so we decided to do a little proclamation and invite Jonathan McGrath, the development manager from PUNT, Pediatric Cancer Collaborative. I'm not going to ask how you got P-U-N-T out of that, but...
 Okay. All right. I figured you'd let us know. But yeah, if you wanted to give us a little bit of background and then I will give you this proclamation. Great. Thank you. Yeah. So to get it out of the way, PUNT stands for Perseverance, Understanding, Need, and Teamwork. So I am the development manager at PUNT.
 I was, I kind of became or came on a collision course with the organization through my own journey through pediatric cancer. My son, Cooper McGrath, was diagnosed and passed last May. So I had worked a lot of different jobs at a lot of good places, rich products, New Era caps.
 had a lot of job security. One of the only things that made sense to me was supporting other families or people who are going through something like this. It's something that you think about,
 But you never really understand or know until you actually experience it. And we do that on a day-to-day basis through six key programs. We support families, including bereaved families going through a pediatric cancer diagnosis, as well as kids who are currently going through treatment at Roswell or any of those other local hospitals. So again, it's six key programs from everything to paying a gas card.
 to paying somebody's mortgage the next month. So it can lift the burden of them maybe not having to work because they have a child going through a pediatric cancer. It's very important work. And again, it's important to me to kind of drop everything and do it in honor of my son. We're a very small team of three. I'd be remiss not to mention our executive director, Gwen Miseyak, and our assistant executive director, Madison Spacer.
 We do very good work on a day-to-day basis, and we really appreciate the recognition. If there's any questions you guys ever have about the organization, you ever want to get involved, please reach out. It's important, and I can tell you the community aspects that we provide. Every dollar stays in Western New York. We keep these families close to the belt, close to the heart. We don't just pay their bills. We make sure that emotionally they are also in a...
 I don't want to say a good spot because you're never really in a good spot after something like this happens, but in a spot where you can have the weight lifted for maybe five minutes. And that's kind of our job. So we appreciate the proclamation and yeah, anything, anything anybody ever wants to do with your organization. We welcome with open arms. So thank you.
 And I'll just read the final resolve. That the City of Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaims the month of September 2022 as Childhood Cancer Awareness Month in the City of Buffalo and sincerely thanks the Pediatric Cancer Collaborative for the incredible work they do in the Buffalo community to help families dealing with childhood cancer. And yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 The motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on September 6, 2022 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that you have? Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review one that you have not been able to see. We are going one out of order.
 I think we're going right from the top. All right. Do we need to take it out of order? You do have one public hearing. It's in resolutions. Item 98, out of resolutions. Do you want to take it out of order? We'll take item 98 out of order. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 98, formal naming of John E. Brent Gardening. Motion to open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing. Second by Council Member Wingo.
 The public hearing is now open on this item. If there's any idea in the public or anybody who has tuned in, I can't see the monitors. The public hearing is open. Well, that was a lot of discussion. I think that Council Member Wingo will have the final remarks. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is very special occasion. As a former council member Clifford Bell,
 was a facilitator of this wonderful movement here to honor such a wonderful contributor to the historic architecture of the city of Buffalo and we are grateful that all these folks came
 along throughout this entire process to ensure that this renaming actually came to fruition. So with all that being said, that long expose on everything that Mr. Brent has done that we spoke about earlier last week, we are appreciative for the support that the community has given toward renaming this small piece in the park
 but ensuring that someone who helped design some of our structures in the city of Buffalo, some of our most important structures that help families in the city of Buffalo was memorialized and recognized in this way. So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And the lack of opposition shows how important it is. Motion to close public hearing. Second by council member Rasheed. Motion to approve. Second by council member Ulysses Owingo Sr. From the top.
 Item number one, designation of acting commissioner of public works. Motion to receive and file items one through three. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number four, appoint inclusionary compliance officer. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Mayer-Lettle. Item number five, consulting services for the curb management plan for downtown Buffalo. Motion to send legislation.
 You send it legislation to the change on the finance. You want to send to finance? Motion is to send to finance. That's where it's marked. Second by Councilmember Whyte.
 Item number 6, local landmark, 1443 Clinton Street. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member . Item number 7, reported cell 93 Amber. Motion to approve item 789. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 10, reported cell 222 Carl.
 Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wengel. Item number 11, report of sale, 864 Humboldt. Motion to approve items 11 through 16. Second by President Pro Tempstown. Item number 17, report of sale, 579 West. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Farrell.
 Item number 18, report a cell 168 Zinner. Motion to approve items 18 and 19. Second by council member Noah Kowalski. Item number 20, report a cell portion of 92 Berger. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member Bultman. Item number 21, report a cell portion of six exits.
 Mr. Chairman, motion is to approve items 21 to 23. And I'd like to comment on this. All right. Second by council member Fairletto and the floor is yours, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This was a wrap lap on the city's West side on the corner of Shenango. And I believe Rhode Island, Rhode Island, Rhode Island. And we started working on this in 2019, uh,
 And we worked with the interested party, Chris and Lindsey Romano, Mackie Moberly, and Rob and Sally.
 And it took a long time. And the reason I wanted to speak on it, because they're here today, and we tried our best to move this along, both in real estate and law department. We had a number of attorneys working on it to the point where we try to streamline the process so nobody ever has to go through what they went through for three years.
 So I just want to recognize them that are here. And certainly I wish we could have gotten it done a lot sooner. And we look to improve the process. So people that are interested in purchasing city-owned land can do it in a quick manner. And I think it makes for efficiency. I mean, this is a money-generating department, a real estate department. They're making money from these sales. So they could have had...
 been collecting taxes on these properties for maybe three years now if we had moved on this a lot sooner sometimes there's obstacles in a way legal issues and i understand and appreciate that but absent that we should do everything possible to move these sales of property along absent you know public safety or legal issues we should move that along
 Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 24, report is still a portion of 406 Madison. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number 25, report is still a portion of 143 Rodney. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number 26, request to approve reported sale community services. Motion to approve items 26 and 27. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 28, appoint assistant to assessor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 29, encroachment and city right of way. Motion to approve items 29 and 30. Second by Council Member Noah Coatsby. Item number 31, appoint account clerk typist. Motion to send to civil service items 31,
 through 42. Second by President Pro Tem Stanley. Corporation Council, item number 43, Stephen Burrell, 535,000. Claims Committee? Claims. Motion to send Claims Committee, evidence 43 through 67. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 68, Appoint Assistant Corporation Council II. Motion to send the Civil Service. Second by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 69, Liquor License Notice 307, Louisiana. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 70, appoint legislative aide. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 71, appoint labor to temporary. Motion to send the civil service items 71 and 72. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Item number 73, notice of appointment labor to seasonal. Motion to receive and file item 73 and 70 through 77. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 78, Buffalo Common Council Language and Disability Access Plan. Mr. Chairman, motion is to adopt. I'd like to, let me just say that- Second by Council Member Golomba. You have the floor. Thank you very much. Let me just say that this,
 plan that was put together language access and disability really lends itself
 to making sure that people with limited English proficiency and with disability receive the services and information that this council puts out. And I'm so appreciative to the work that was done by our staff. And I hope we have a chance to look at the legislation, the language and disability access plan that will be on our website,
 It is very comprehensive. You can look at the table of contents. It has mission statement, policy goals. It has provisions, language interpretation and translation, documentation, translation. It has ASL interpretation for sight languages. It has physical disability. It's very comprehensive, and I think...
 for those people that have disabilities to know that they can go online and have access to everything we have here, everything we do, whether it's taking the elevator or wheelchair or electronic devices, that this will be available to them. And I just want to thank, you know, a special thanks to Jim Montour,
 and council staff Mike Reed, Pedro Gonzalez worked on this in central staff. My staff, Valerie Malia, Councilmember Mitch Nowakowski's staff as well worked on this. The clerk's office, Tiana and Bethany Wright. I mean this is I think that other cities are going to look to us as a model for what we're doing here today and this is an open door with
 people that are limited English proficient and people that have disabilities. So I think many people are gonna look to us and it's very proud day for me to support this. So thank you very much to the staff
 for doing this. I definitely, totally, 100% agree with you. And you bring up about the wheelchair when we put the ramp, the elevator in. Now, remember how preservationists, some preservationists said we would never be able to do that. And we did it, working with them, working with the differently abled community, as some people call them. And so I think that this puts us far, far
 ahead and hearing from people, especially as Buffalo is changing. You know, there was a time when you only needed to know two languages in Buffalo, and that was English and Spanish. That was it. And today is not the same day. So I agree. The staff has done a remarkable job in getting us here. And I was just asking because we used to have...
 hearing assistance headphones, but I don't think that they're compatible with this system. So in hearing that we'll start to look at, it is now compatible. So we even have that available in these chambers. And so I agree with you. Job well done. Yes, sir.
 President, for those that want to request a form for language and disability access, it can be found on the City of Buffalo website. That's buffalonewyork.gov slash accessibility. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. And thank you both. All righty.
 Good stuff. Next item. Item number 79, comments on 18 Howell Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 80, special use 53 Riverview for now owner occupied. Motion to send the legislation City Planning Board items 80 through 83. Second by Council Member Firoletto. Item number 84, petition to stop Hopewell. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member White.
 Submission list civil service item number one appoint buyer. Motion is to approve item number one. Second by the majority leader Revere. Item number two appoint law clerk. Motion is to receive and file items two through including four. Second by the majority leader Revere. Item number five appoint secretary to commissioner.
 Motion is to approve items five through and including seven. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number eight, appointing our paralegal assistant. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Perlow. Item number nine, appoint Corporation Council two. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombi. Item number 10, appoint Assistant Corporation Council four. Motion is to receive and file items 10 through and including 15.
 it's a lot of lawyers off the market second by councilman no account it's a good thing yes item number 16 a point account clerk typist motion is to approve items 16 through and including 23. saying my councilman item number 24 a point fire captive motion is to receive and file item
 24 through and including 27. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scala. Item number 28, appoint Assistant Corporation Council to. Motion is to approve items 28 and 29. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item number 30, appoint Assistant Mail slash Print Shop Supervisor. Motion is to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fulham.
 Finance Committee, item number 31, Certificate of Necessity, City Court Facilities. Motion to receive and file items number 31 and 32. Second by the Majority Leader, Ravira. Item number 33, AP Benefit Advisors, Benefits and Assurance Consultant Extension. Motion to approve items 33 through 38. Second by Council Member, Golombet. Community Development, item number 39, Notice of Existence.
 to name John E. Brent Gardner. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 40, report of sale 68 Warren. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 41, report of sale portion of 15 Shrek. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 42, report of sale 108 Hastings. Motion to approve items 42, 43, and 44. Second by Council Member White.
 legislation item number 45 used car 1225 sycamore motion to approve with conditions items 45 through 47 approve 48 approve 49 with conditions and 50 with conditions approve 51 and 50
 And approve item 52 with conditions and approve item 53. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 54, special use 1353 hurdle for tobacco. Motion to deny. Second by Councilmember Golomba.
 Item number 55, supplement to AMWA crossing PUD application. Motion to receive and file? Motion to receive and file, second by Council Member Golombet. A question, Chairman, did anybody put on record the denial, the reason for denial? Will it be in writing? I'm not sure, but we could submit it in writing also. All right. The Corporate Council usually wants something. Okay. All right. Thank you, sir.
 Item number 56, special use 91, aka 101, grant for Hookah Lounge. Motion to deny. Mr. Chairman. Second. Second by Councilmember Rivera. The reason for denial is that the applicant changed its business plan. It's no longer a Hookah Lounge. They're doing something else. That is the reason for the denial. For the record. Thank you. Thank you.
 Item number 57, used car dealer, 1521 East Sullivan. Motion to deny. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And the reason for denial on this one is because this application was filed about a year ago. Our office had...
 meeting set up. There was a no call show, no show, no call, no show. We haven't been able to get ahold of the applicant and the building is for sale currently. So we believe he's moved on and we've made numerous attempts to contact him. Thank you. Thank you for entering it into the record. Resolutions, item number 85, integrating the DARE program back into Buffalo Public Schools. Mr. Chairman, this is a late file. Council member Bowman.
 What would you like to do with it, sir? Education, please. Motion is sent to Education Committee. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 86, Hanukkah Lighting in Niagara Square. Motion to approve items 86 through 90. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 91, Cobblestone Historic Districts at Public Haring. Motion to adopt 91 through 94.
 Second by Councilmember Nowakowski who has the floor and will explain what this is before all of our officers get calls. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We're also joined by Corporation Council who can also be able to address this body. Today as District Councilmember representing the Cobblestone Historic District, I am asking this honorable body to consider item 22-1556,
 item number 91 in resolutions for adoption to begin the proceedings to set a public hearing for the eminent domain procedure law regarding the parcels at 110 and 118 South Park. These structures have been an active housing court case for well over a decade with no progress. The Cobblestone Historic District is a designated historic district locally designated by the Common Council, this honorable body since the mid 1990s.
 This course of action is exceptionally rare, only being utilized in unique circumstances. Considering the long standing and ongoing failure of the owners to address the conditions of these properties, the city desires to take the proactive step to protect the public, eliminate blight, preserve the historical integrity, and enhance the economic development of the Cobblestone Historic District.
 For 12 years, the city has employed every tool at its disposal to make the property safe to the surrounding area, only to meet the resistance at every turn from the current owner, Daryl J. Carr.
 As you can see, the administration, corporation council, the Department of Permits and Inspections, and myself have all worked collaboratively and extensively on all possible remedies pertaining to these structures that have led us to reach this determination to pursue this next step.
 The properties are the most iconic and historically significant structures in the Cobblestone Historic District, which the Preservation Board and this Common Council certified the Historic District in the early 90s and also in 2014 by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the federal standards for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places. The owner, Daryl Carr, acquired these structures in 2009.
 fully understanding upon purchase of these buildings that they were contributing structures in a designated local historic district with such designation subject to local preservation laws, standards, and scrutiny within the city charter. Many surrounding establishments, such as restaurants, nightclubs, and office spaces, have invested in their properties in the Cobblestone District, now working to become an entertainment district.
 These surrounding establishments strongly desire that the owner of 110 and 118 South Park to be held accountable, but more importantly, that these structures return into a contributing and adaptive reuse, respectful of the historical integrity they were built with. These structures located at 110 and 118 South Park are some of the most significant buildings in the Campbellstone District. This pre-Civil War era commercial building
 built in eighteen fifty two was first home to George Mudridge and Sunstein Bakery. The company made hardtack, a type of biscuit for the United or for the Union Army during the Civil War. These structures were later adapted for manufacturing during the early twentieth century.
 This rich history is our history, just as we saw these structures adapt to the times and demands of over 100 years ago. I know we can still today do that and take pride in these structures.
 And also before this body, I'm asking that we honor the fortitude and the prerogatives of past councils in the 1990s that already identified these structures and knew what was really happening down at Cobblestone. And I have a resolution from the proceedings of 1993 from council members Messers, Fronsack, Pitts, Arthur, and Perla, who I don't want to read all of the whereases, but I'll identify one because it also...
 it puts an additional level of review of the Cobblestone Historic District, which was really forward thinking then. And it states, whereas in order to save existing businesses, as well as protect the potential for new development, the buildings in question should not be demolished to accommodate one level parking.
 And that also means that they weren't to apply to the city of Buffalo to be demolished or to be left in such decrepit condition that they just fall down for one level parking. We understand what's going on here. And as you know, and I state sometimes, you know, exaggerate the point to actually bring of how long this has been. This has been in housing court since I was in high school. I'm now a sitting council member.
 time to move forward in a new direction. And I've worked really hard with the administration and OSP in the Department of Permits and Inspections regarding this. And this is just to notify the public and the owner that
 the council will set a public hearing within 90 days that's stated within the laws and the rules and regulations of this council. And for a later date, I will adhere to all of those rules and notifications. And within that 90 day period, we'll file a hearing for eminent domain procedure law. And here with me is corporation council that could advise this body before we move to vote for an adoption.
 All right. First of all, I want to thank you for such a thorough explanation, because I think when you see the words eminent domain, it is a hot button issue. It is one personally, I think a government should it should be the last resort is to.
 move in eminent domain. You've explained it, I think, perfectly in that this does not trigger eminent domain. It triggers a possible hearing that could be set in 90 days. And I just want to make sure I'm summarizing. So I want it to be way out there because I know what will happen when you say eminent domain, people will say council is starting to take people's property to...
 To enhance an entertainment district. And that's not what you said you went through. And personally, it may send a message to some folks. But I want to just be clear that this is not eminent domain today of what we're voting on.
 correct and as you know i've as district council member i've worked very hard on this case for a long time and there is a new way of doing business sometimes in the city of buffalo and we have to embrace new approaches and this is a very unique uh circumstance and i want to express that that this is a very unique circumstance council members already any other questions councilman river chairman um the fact that council members back then when
 I don't go back to George Arthur, Jim Pitts, Carol Perl and Dave Franzik. I don't know how far back that goes, but they saw the potential for buildings coming down and becoming surface parking lots for the arenas. We have two arenas down there. My concern is you have speculators that come in and they sit on these buildings until they fall apart. And then they say, hey, we have to demolish them. Look at the Northern, the great Northern area
 mill that's coming down right now. I think we need to be more proactive. And I think this is a way we can't let speculators just come in and sit on properties, depreciating the neighborhood and to the point that they're going to come down, if not on their own weight, but by demolition. So I support this. I mean, I agree with you. Imminent domains should be a last thing when the Peace Bridge comes to us and say we want imminent.
 domain to buy Bustai Avenue to build a duty-free, I will be against eminent domain there for certain. So I agree with you. It's something that we should
 proceed very carefully, but I don't want to mix both of them. I mean, here we have a legitimate concern. This building has been falling apart brick by brick over the years. And I was at the press conference over a year ago and I saw the building and the bricks that are falling out of it. So thank you very much to Council Member Mitch Nowakowski for wanting to preserve that historic district. Thank you.
 And just a question, and I know our corporation council is here, so if anybody wants to answer, if within those 90 days, the owner was to contact you, and would that in any way trigger a different response? If the owner was to contact and say, I'm going to redo the building or whatever. We don't want to make any assumptions, but...
 That's a potential. That's why as this process moves forward, I really wanted to be gentle and adhere to all the laws and just state for the record that the clock starts today, assuming its adoption of 90 days. And I will be making that determination to set a public hearing as we move forward. Thank you, sir. No other questions? Next item. Item number 95, Shea Day fee waiver. Motion to approve item 95. Thank you.
 And 96. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 97, explore fallen Buffalo firefighters commemoration signs. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. If you travel throughout the city of Buffalo you will come across honorary street signs, also referred to as trailblazing signs. These signs are installed to honor the memory of Buffalonians who have contributed greatly to our city.
 much like the signs the Buffalo Police Department has installed signs throughout the city of Buffalo recognizing members of the police department who have lost their life in the line of duty and a very appropriate honor and the least of which we can do to honor their memory and their service and commitment to the city much like the Buffalo Police Department the Buffalo Fire Department
 Also lose has lost significant number of members in the line of duty since it's since it's establishment sorry I'm 125 members of the Buffalo Fire Department have lost their life courageously protecting the property and citizens of the city of Buffalo.
 This resolution is asking that the Department of Public Works collaborate and coordinate with the Buffalo Fire Department to install trailblazing signs or honorary street signs in the memory of those fallen Buffalo firefighters. I want to thank the council members for supporting this initiative. Again, it's the least we can do to honor these heroes who have given the ultimate sacrifice, again, protecting the lives and property of the residents of the city of Buffalo. Absolutely.
 item number 99 trailblazers time reverend freeman jr motion to approve items 99 and 100. second by councilman fair little and can we just go back to 97. motion revisit item 97 by councilman scanlon can um i'd be a friendly co-sponsor to that
 I'm not a sponsor, just add me. Add Councilmember Golombek, add Councilmember Revere, add Councilmember Wingo, add Councilmember Nowakowski, add everybody at all. Beautiful. All right. Is that the last one? Oh, any revisits?
 Nobody? All right. Announcement of committee meetings. The follow-up meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or councilstaff at buffalomy.gov for more information on how to attend.
 Regular committees, Committee on Civil Services, Tuesday, September 27, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, Following Civil Services, Tuesday, September 27, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, September 27, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, September 27, 2022 at 2 p.m.
 Committee on Claims will be Wednesday, September 28, 2022 at 1 p.m. Special Committees Committee on Education will be Tuesday, September 27, 2022 at 11 a.m.
 Council members, Council Member Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We have been excited in the Mastin District because our Mastin District breakfast slash meetings have swelled and grown to the point where we now have to have our breakfasts in the gymnasium because we're having so many folks come out to partake in that great warm and hot, tasteful breakfast as well as receiving great relevant information
 of things that are happening in their district that will also help them to establish their block clubs and strengthen their neighborhoods so we are very excited so october the 8th
 Next month, you still have time to put it on your calendars. Next month, Saturday, October the 8th, at 9 o'clock a.m. at the Delavan Grider Center. That is located at 877 East Delavan in the Madison District. Please come out and bring your family and your friends. We have some great announcements for you. We have some great events happening in the month of October that I was instructed by my bosses in my office.
 not to say anything about yet, but we have some exciting news coming to our Masson residents regarding our yearly events. And if you do have a presentation for the constituency in the Masson District, please call the office at 716-851-5145. And please let them know that you would like to present at our breakfast to help us disseminate great and accurate
 information that is relevant to us building capacity in our community, as well as ensuring that everyone has again accurate information. Again, that Saturday, October the 8th, 2022 at 9 a.m. at the Delavan Grader Center, 877 East Delavan. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a reminder, tomorrow is our Lovejoy District Picnic annual event, Rain or Shine, food, fun, and just a nice event to get the entire Lovejoy District together. So that's 4 to 7 tomorrow at Fontana's Picnic Grove near Clinton and Harlem. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski. I'd like to just elevate the Lovejoy District Council Member's event because I went last year, and it's a happening party. So, yeah. Yeah. All righty.
 Hearing no others, motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member White. Thank you.