Majority Leader O'Hara. President. President Clarkson-Stanley. First. Second. Council Member White. Foreign Minister Simon. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. I will chapter the Brethren down there now. I will take it back to the President for the last section, which he already told Isaiah 41, verse 10. And I'll go out in May with Isaiah 41, verse 13, a few verses later. Black women are not exposed to the right. I'll mute you long before I do. Please leave a comment. I really appreciate that. So thank you, Dad. I love your name. Thank you, Holy. I was a little shocked by the fact that I'm part of this. Others have come from a very different groups. But once the year we were fixing it, and I got to see movements, cars, back roads, I was familiar to him, and I was nervous crossing streets. I remember my dad would reach down and break the door. He was really walking across the street. I was sort of right snapping in his throat. There was all the word for that. It takes a cold, and you're running. You need to understand that all dreams are an absurdity. I wish life was only as crazy as the dream of a kid in New York. It's got to be like that. I never thought it would be. But I worked for the time to have someone with that need. But I don't know what I'm certain about. I've got a problem with that too. The moving parts on the playing field, and for many of us, we've never been this way before. And as leaders, others are looking to us, assuming we know what to do. But I confess to you that for Deb and me and for so many leaders here and throughout the region and the world, We've not been here and we don't know what to do. So Father, just like all those years ago, confidence came in my dad's hand because I was certain he'd get me to the other side safely. I pray even now for everyone here that Lord they'd recognize the need of a hand bigger than theirs on this journey. Reach down now and touch us each and everyone and especially those who today have to make key decisions for the citizens of Buffalo, New York, we ask in your name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmembers and memorials? Councilmember Buengo? I would ask that the City of Buffalo keeps the family of Rose Lucretia Roberts in their prayers. She was a mother at the Antioch Baptist Church where she was a member for several decades. Her presence will be missed, her smile will be missed. She was a very, very classy lady who could set the bar for many people just from the kind of person she was and how she could light up a room when she walked in. And then on first Sundays when the mothers would all be on their mother's bench, she'd make sure that everyone was at attention when it was time. She will absolutely. be sorely missed. Her family is in our prayers. We're asking that the City of Buffalo continue to keep them lifted. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Glombeck. Thank you, Mr. President. The D district community, Buffalo Police Department in general, but especially the D district community and the Riverside neighborhood lost a detective over at our district, Amy Shepherd Frankel. I've known Amy for about 25 years. I know her husband, Harvey Frankel, who just retired about a year ago from the Buffalo Police Department. She sadly died in her sleep, which I suppose is a good thing, but only I think 45, 46 years old, left behind six children and her husband. It's just terribly, terribly sad. And as I said, I've known them for gosh, 25 years. They used to live in the Riverside neighborhood for quite some time and Just very sad and heartbreaking, so my sympathy to the family and the friends that have lost a dear friend. Any others? Hearing none other, we also always remember our servicemen and women. Fortunately, since our last meeting, we have not lost one, but we remember all of those who have served and have given their life. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Greer, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on September 7th, 2021 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. I'm not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review something. Majority Leader? Mr. Chair, take from Resolution Items 53. Out of order. 53, second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 53, discharge item 21-756 from legislation. Motion to discharge. Second by Council Member Golombet. From the top. Item number one, contract for installation and display of the Tango Dance Sign. Motion to approve items one and two. second by Council Member Fideletto, who has the floor. Thank you very much. I just want to touch base on item number one and thank Douglas Development, the administration, the Buffalo Arts Commission, I think Emerson Barr is here. Several years ago, the neon tango dancer sign on Elmwood and Bidwell was taken down and it is part of the fabric of Elmwood and Bidwell and it was designed by some people in Elmwood several decades ago. People missed it when it was down, and the Arts Commission did an outstanding job to come up with the funds to restore it to its glory, and in agreement with the Arts Commission and Douglas Development, it will go right back to its original place, and a lot of people in Elmwood are very excited about it. So I wanted to thank everyone for their part in this. Thank you. Thank you. Tangle. Item number three, report of cell 3241, Bailey. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number four, report of cell 276, Chelsea. Motion to approve items four through and including 16. Okay. Second by... Oh, excuse me, 13. 13. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 14, Seeker-Nagdack for 46 East Sullivan. Motion to receive and file items 14 and 15. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 16, Museum of Science. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 17, Fitch Ratings, City of Buffalo Financial Review. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 18, Change Order for Allendale Theater. Facade Restoration. Motion to approve items 18 through 29. Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 31, Palm Brokers License 1407, a.k.a. 1421 Main Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 32, Police Athletic Club Bike Helmet Contract. Motion to approve items 32... Through 36. Seconded by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Item number 37, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 37 and 38. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, appoint assistant legislative aide to. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, appoint assistant corporation counsel. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 41, Erie County Division of Planning for 901 Furman Boulevard, special use permit. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 42, negative declaration for 901 Furman Boulevard. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 43, request to serve on a citizen's advisory commission for reapportionment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 44, Buffalo Police Reform Legislation. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 45, Say Yes Buffalo Update. Motion to send to Education Committee. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 46, legislative loopholes. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number 47, supplemental information for 901 Furman Boulevard. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 48, New York State Senate Clean Slate Bill. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Furlow. Petitions. Item number 49, 481 Peckham for Neighborhood Shop. Motion to send to legislation of City Planning Board items 49 through 51. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Submission list. Committee. Civil Service. Item number one. Appoint administrative assistant. Motion is to receive a file item number one through and including 32. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Finance Committee. Item number 33. Permission to enter into agreement with Modern for Recycling Services. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fielder. Item number 34. Proposed Bureau Agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Goldman. Legislation. All right, we can proceed. Thank you. Legislation, item number 35, used car dealer 271 Dengen Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 36, COVID waiver appeal and petition for amendment to the City of Buffalo Charter. Motion to receive and file. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wendell. Item number 37, 901 Furman Boulevard for pedestrian and bicycle paths and live entertainment. Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit, second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 38, special use for 171 Lafayette Nile owner occupied short-term rental. Motion to approve items 38 and 39. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 40, 2227 South Park for tobacco. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 41, special use permit 478 Allenville for outdoor dining and tavern. Motion to approve. Seconded by the Majority Leader Revere. Item number 42, ordinance amendment for section 1321, right to no law. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 43, zone and map amendment for Morella, Hopkins, and Buffalo to NACDAC. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 44, a multiple address for Morella, multiple address for Hopkins. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Villamil. Item number 45, inquiry to response time for AMR Ambulance. Motion to approve items 45 through 51. I think 45 is receive and file. Yep, receive and file. So it's a motion to receive and file items 45 through 51. Okay. Second by council, by the majority leader Revere. Item number 52, report on body cam policy. Motion to send to police oversight items 52 and 53. Second by the majority leader Revere. Item number 54, local landmark for 680 Amherst Street. This item was discharged. This was marked to be sent without recommendation. If the district council member wants to speak on this item. Council Member Golombek, you have the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. You know, I hope that it was just a misunderstanding over the weekend that we have a property, the Volkers Bowling Lanes, that are currently in – committee in which we're looking at landmarking all parts, some of the property. And that's a discussion that was first brought up, I think, towards the beginning, middle of summer last year, right before recess. And there's some concerns on both sides. The owner of the property, of course, would prefer that none of the property be landmarked. The preservationists would like to see 100% landmarked. And I thought that at the last council meeting that there was, on my behalf, a little bit of an olive branch that was extended to say that, well, we're going to put this back to committee, and we're going to take a look at doing sort of a Solomon-like, I guess, decision, and maybe doing part of the property rather than all of the property. you know, over the weekend there was some calls that there was some work being done there and I contacted city agencies on Sunday and then Monday. And to be honest with you, I was a little bit upset, you know, that over what was allegedly happening. In the meantime, I was able to find out a little bit more information. And I think that there's more of a misunderstanding that took place, or at least I'm going to believe that because I tried to give everyone the benefit of the doubt. But this item could go back to committee, because I do still think that there needs to be a compromise on this, but there is a companion in number, I think 53 from the full council, which is a resolution. which I want to talk on, and that will be sort of the action item rather than taking action on this item here. I also want to thank my colleagues. I spoke to many of you yesterday and last night, getting ideas, in particular you, Mr. President, who I thought gave a great suggestion with the cease and desist order. I think that's a good way to move forward. And, you know, it doesn't harm anyone. It just sort of lets everybody take a deep breath And then let's move forward. So thank you. And thank you for your leadership on it. I know it's a difficult situation, but I think you went the right way. We support that. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Golombic. resolutions item number 52 cease and desist order for 680 amherst this item's open councilman columbic you have the floor yes thank you um if i'm not uh if i understand correctly uh miss gordon um the law that we passed a few years ago says that while an item is uh being looked at for designation as a historic property, that there's not supposed to be any major work that is done on it, any removals. You can do board ups, you can do emergencies, you know, if a car hits it or something like that. But is that correct? Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon, yes, that's correct. Okay, and so what this resolution does is it just asks for a cease and desist on that property until, basically it says let's follow the law, you know, that we're looking at. And I'm not saying that anybody was or was not, but I just want to clarify that we're moving forward without the property being touched or harmed or tinkered with unless there's an emergency. Also, you know, there was a rumor that was going around saying that there was going to be a midnight, and this did not come from, this came from the neighborhood, this did not come from the other side, okay? But, you know, there was a rumor that one of the companies was going to come and do a demolition job over the weekend and overnight and all this stuff, and I did say, and I'm going to state this for the record, if that was to happen, I would do everything in my power to make sure that whatever the demolition company that was to do that would lose their license in the city of Buffalo. I don't think it's going to happen. I hope it's not going to happen. I think it's just idle chatter right now. But if it did happen, as I said, I would do everything in my power, and I think my colleagues would too, because that's a direct slap in the face to the city of Buffalo. There are laws, there are rules, there are regulations, so I do believe it's just idle chatter in the neighborhood, but I'm just giving a full-scale commitment right now that if someone was to do that, I would do all in my power to make sure that they were penalized. to the fullest extent that the City of Buffalo can. So I would ask that we would approve this item. And then we'll continue to work on the Volcker's item over the next few weeks or so. Absolutely. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. I did just want to point out something positive within this resolution. And I do see that the ordinance amendment that we sponsored last year to make sure that this doesn't happen, it had happened previously before, but we wanted to make sure that, you know, last minute Demos did not happen in the city of Buffalo before the council spoke and I see the the language taken from that ordinance amendment And used in the resolution, so I'm glad to see that it's working and although it's not my district I would like to sign on in support of what you're doing Thank you just to make sure that As we're going through the process, I think it sends out a clear message. If it were another building, I would ask to sign on, especially when I saw the work that you were doing to try to figure this out. And I was disappointed also to see the videos of things being moved. But it seems like you got a handle on it. So I'd like to sign on with you. Thank you. All right. She needs to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 54, Buffalo welcomes Afghanistan refugees. Motion to adopt items 53 and 54. Second by Council Member Feraletto. I'm sorry, Council Member Nowakowski. Yes, I just wanted to speak briefly on this resolution that I submitted welcoming Afghan refugees. It's in a pretty timely fashion that the news has reported that over 300 refugees will come to the city of Buffalo. And as you know, my district, a lot like other districts on the Common Council, are a melting pot. And new Americans and refugees are rebuilding our neighborhoods for the better. And I do want to give credit where credit is due. The most the biggest part of this resolution was actually comes from a city of Buffalo employee who was a veteran of the Afghan war that really wanted to see this council and to see their city support Afghan refugees. And I was happy to do it and to support it. Absolutely. Good job customer. Thank you very much. Mr chair over the last few weeks. We've held a number of events. with the resettlement agencies, Jericho Road, Jewish Federation, Catholic Charities, International Institute, to talk about Migration from Afghanistan. The City of Buffalo for the first time in 70 years has increased in population. Since 2006, I believe it's 2006, 17,000 immigrants and refugees have resettled in the City of Buffalo. They have contributed to the quality of life, to the economy of the City of Buffalo. So, Buffalo is a welcoming city. Buffalo is one of a number of cities that will be receiving Afghan refugees. And I know that we're going to welcome them into the city of Buffalo as we have other immigrants and refugees who have resettled here in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Buffalo has always been a sanctuary city. And for that reason, I would like to ask if I could be added to this resolution, because I am proud of how Buffalo has embraced immigrant populations. I'm also very proud that the administration, during a time where other cities were shutting down, the city of Buffalo continued to receive in actual defilement, defilement, in order to not receive immigrants, we still received immigrant populations. So for that reason, I know we were all aliens at one point, And we need to ensure that those immigrants coming from either overseas or from over the border, that they feel welcome and at home here in these United States, and particularly Buffalo. I'm very proud. Again, I can't remember which colleague stated this, but they have added to the quality of life. The fabric of communities are changing dramatically. And as we're going, walking throughout the communities on our day-to-day work as council members, we do hear some of the angst from long-term residents in the city of Buffalo regarding how the community is changing. But there was a time when we changed the community. And I think we need to keep that in mind. And with the Afghans, the refugees coming in, as well as immigrants from all parts of this state and across the country are finding refuge and homes here in Buffalo, we need to continue to embrace them. And for that, I actually really want to applaud my colleagues for taking the initiative and ensuring that we are Coming out and stepping forward and making sure the folks know that Buffalo can be their home, too So that reason thank you and let's continue to be this city of good neighbors. Thank you, mr. Chair I'd also like to be added to the resolution Mr. Chairman as well councilmember Bowman would like to be added to the resolution Alrighty comes from a Golombak would like to be added to the resolution councilmember Scanlon councilmember for you little at all Thank you All right. Next item. Item number 55, halfway to St. Patrick's Bay fee waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 56, support for procurement prioritizing New York State manufacturer personal protective equipment. Motion to adopt items 56 through 59. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 60, support for Clean Slate New York bill. Motion to send to legislation. Motion. Second by Council Member Bowman. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit under miscellaneous items 41, 42, and 47? Second by Council Member Golombak. These items are before us. Did you call item 47? You can go ahead and say it. Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon, they all should be sent to ledge. Correct. A motion is now to send items, rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Scanlon. And motion now is to send items 41, 42, and 47 to legislation. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor of City Hall, Buffalo, New York, unless otherwise stated. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Services, Tuesday, September 28, 2019. 21 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, File, and Civil Service is Tuesday, September 28th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, September 28th, 2021 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, September 28th, 2021 at 2 p.m. Any announcements from colleagues? Councilmember Wingo. Thank you Mr. President. Again the Madison District is pleased to announce our monthly stakeholders meeting. This is a meeting that has been going on for several decades now. We are happy to continue in that tradition to ensure that our residents have a central location to come and meet with their local district representative. I am very happy to sit down and meet with anyone and everyone who's willing to get up on a second Saturday morning at 9 a.m. and come and share and have breakfast with myself and the rest of my staff. Again, that's every second Saturday of every single month of the year. We want to invite you to come to 877 East Delavan, which is the Delavan Grider Center, at 9 a.m., the second Saturday of every month. And the next meeting that we will have in my district will be on October the 9th. We'll be right back. We'll let you do bingo, wingo. None of our names rhyme with bingo. Bingo with prigion, this doesn't sound right. And I would stop by, but you said you're having healthy food. If you have some fried chicken, maybe. Any other announcements, Councilmembers? All righty. Councilmember Ver? Second by Councilmember Joel P. Ferrell-Leto.