I can't even drink coffee, but it does nothing for us. Cut it out of the- I did not break the law. Four, three, two, one. Committee on claims, Wednesday, September 25th, 2024. Council Member Rivera. Council Member Glombeck. Council Member Bollman. Here. Council Member Halton-Poe. For the purpose of the forum, we're going to appoint President Pro Temp-Bollman to the committee. We've been joined by our- We have- Looked at the confidential packet that is before us. We normally ask Corporation Council to summarize the items that before us. If there are any questions that would require us to go into executive session, please let us know now so we can enter into executive session. Any questions on any of the items before us? well thank you very much corporation council law department thank you you can give a brief summary with personal injuries and then we can move on with the approvals or whatever concerns the members may have uh call the item item a1 hartman jennifer 15 000. item is open corporation council Good afternoon, Chavette Chambers Corporation Council. Joining with me today are members of our Law Department, Treck Fuller, Casey Callanan, Deputy Corporation Council Robert Quinn, Assistant Corporation Council William Matheson, and Assistant Corporation Council David Lee. To the extent that there are any questions, Chair, as you mentioned, we'd ask to go into executive session. We've read the packets before us. There are no questions, perhaps a few comments. Normally when we look at the summary of the items, we ask if there are any things after the incident that we have done to limit the liability. Whether it's traffic, whether it's policing, whatever it is, anything comes from that. I mean, those are kind of questions we ask in executive session without getting into the details of the merits of the case that's in court. Hopefully, there would be some mitigation to limit liability on the part of the city, since we are settling for the amounts of money that we're settling for. That is our only, that's at least my observation from reading the summary, what can we do to limit our exposure to liabilities? Whether it's through a department, through training, or something that perhaps, we're not going to take any culpability at this point because there is litigation. But anything that we can do to reduce incidents. So with that said, if there are no other comments from any of the council members, we can motion them. Motion to close items A1 through 5. Motion to close items A1 through A5. Motion to approve items A1 through 5. Motion is to approve items A1 through 5, seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Item B1, Carl Campbell, $7,440.68. Motion to open items B1 through 5. Motion is to open items B1 through 5. Motion is? Motion to close discussion. Motion to close discussion. Motion to approve items B1 through 5. Motion to approve items B1 through 5, seconded by Councilmember President Pro Tem. Motion to adjourn. Yes, sir. Just a correction. No correction. I believe that we have items B1 through 6. I'm sorry. Item 6. Thank you. Thank you. The meeting is reopened. The motion to reopen the meeting, seconded by Councilmember Galambach. Thank you. Motion to revisit item C? No, item B6. B6. Item B6, Mary Mezzi, 2,185. Motion to open for discussion. Motion was to open for discussion. Motion now. Motion to close discussion. Motion to close discussion. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by President Pro Temp-Bowman. Item C1, AT&T, $70.59. Motion to open items C1 through C6. Motion to open item C1 through C6. Motion is now. No further discussion, motion is? Motion to close items C1 through 6. Motion to close item C1 through C6. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve item C1 through C6, seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Good, how are you? You live in the Niagara District now, huh? How long have you lived?