Hello, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera. It is 9.01 a.m. and now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation. Good morning, Ms. Bryan. Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem is joining us virtually today. Again, good morning everyone and I'd like to start the new year
 as 2021 brought a lot of challenges to our community, brought a lot of challenges to all of us. But the resiliency of our community, our community leaders and your teachers and superintendents and everyone really that are leaders in our community made a big difference to be able to come through 2021. And as we look at 2021,
 There were some great things that happened for us and some things that were challenges. And we lost some loved ones in 2021 that unfortunately to the pandemic and unfortunately to natural causes. So we look back and we look forward and we need to look forward and look at 2022 as a year that will bring prosperity, joy and happiness. And remember, we gotta love one another, respect one another. We don't always have to agree,
 but we should never disrespect each other. So looking at 2022, I look at a great year for our community, our students, and our country and our city. Again, as I see our youth here, I want to thank you all because you all are the future of our city. You're the future of our country and congratulations on all your accomplishments, but I look forward to growing with you and the rest of our city. Thank you and may God bless everyone.
 Thank you, Mayor. For the record, Representative Hernandez is also present in chambers, and Representative Lizárraga has requested to be excused this morning. We now go to the Pledge of Allegiance. And I would love our newsletter school volleyball team to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. To the flag of the United States of America, one nation, under God's will, and justice for all. Before we do sit down, I think we need to have a moment of silence.
 really to remember 2021 and to look at 2022 as an incredible opportunity for ourselves our family and our community thank you again may god bless everyone thank you mayor that brings us to the mayor's proclamations the first proclamation this morning is Dr Martin Luther King Jr Day okay good morning and thank you mayor Happy New Year's to everyone
 Whereas the city of El Paso, Texas joins with the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Committee of El Paso, Texas to honor the life and Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at the committee's observance of celebration on January the 16th, 2022. And whereas Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was born on January the 15th, 1929 and dedicated his life to promoting peace, freedom, equality, and justice.
 for all through non-violent means challenging all of us to participate in the never-ending work of building and sustaining beloved communities his teachings continue to guide and inspire us in addressing challenges and opportunities to arise in our diverse world
 And whereas President Ronald Reagan enacted Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a federal holiday on November 2, 1983, becoming the first federal holiday honoring an African American. The holiday falls on the third Monday of every January and celebrates Reverend Dr. King's birthday
 honors his life, legacy, and raises awareness of the ongoing needs to advance civil and human rights. And whereas on August 28, 1963, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered a historic speech at the Lincoln Memorial, which called for an end to racism in the United States, saying, I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live up the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to the self-evident
 that all men are created equal. And whereas the city of El Paso, Texas is welcoming an inclusive community where strive to deepen and understanding and practice improving equal dignity, respect, and opportunity for all who live and visit our city.
 now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso January the 17th 2022 shall be known as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day signed by the honorable mayor Oscar Leaser and the next proclamation is Elvira Nevarez Remembrance Day thank you
 Whereas Elvira Nevarez was involved in the Montana Vista community over 25 years, first as a volunteer at Montana Vista Elementary, then as a Language Proficiency Assessment Committee Clerk, a substitute teacher for Clint Independent School District, and finally a teacher at Red Sands Elementary.
 was deservingly named Teacher of the Year at the Red Sands Elementary in 2019 in recognition of her excellent work as well as the admiration of her students and peers. And whereas Ms. Nevarez was a beautiful person who loved her students as if they were her own children and taught important lessons both in and out of the classroom.
 She was a magnet of positivity who expected the best from everyone around her and in turn made everyone around her better. And whereas Elvira Nevarez was a caring and selfless mother, grandmother, sister, daughter, friend, coworker, educator, and confidant to many.
 the city of El Paso would like to recognize Elvira Nevarez's incredible commitment to the education of future generations of borderland leaders. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that January 25th, 2022, shall be known as Elvira Nevarez Remembrance Day. Yeah, we'll go probably, where's Ms. Laura Cruz-Costa?
 I don't see her, but we'll take a picture with them. Where would you like us to go, Mr. Costa, with the volleyball team?
 So what we want to do is go ahead and go on to the item and the actual agenda item for the students and go ahead and approve as needed with Ms. Prime. And then after we're going to take the group photo for the proclamations here behind me. And then while you all are taking the proclamation photos, we're going to go ahead and arrange the volleyball team outside and prepare for you all to come out and take that photograph.
 okay thank you council at this time may we have a motion to move item 14 to the forefront second there's a motion in a second to move item 14 to the forefront of the agenda all in favor anyone opposed the motion passes item number 14 is discussion and action on a resolution formally commending and congratulating isleta high school on winning the bi-district playoff round and advancing to the 5a region one area championship
 Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve. Representative Rivera, there you go, I'll let you turn it on. Thank you, Mayor. And again, as we ended last year, the last council meeting was a celebration of our youth. We start this year with also a similar celebration, but in honor of the all women's volleyball
 Instead of high school an achievement that they have that no other team before them had achieved up until they were able to do so and we have a Resolution that we want to enter once we go into it Yes, sir, thank you, and this will be shared by again representative Rodriguez Thank you
 Thank you. I also want to congratulate you ladies. I think you all did an excellent job. You should be very proud of yourselves It's a huge accomplishment. It should not be diminished by any in any way. So be very proud of yourselves And this is just one of many accomplishments that you all will will succeed in not only in your high school career But in life in general so congratulations again We're gonna read the resolution sir
 We're going to read resolution really quick. So whereas on Tuesday, November 2nd, 2021, the Isleta High School volleyball team won the bi-district round against El Paso High School. And whereas the Isleta Indians win against the El Paso Tigers, advance them to the 5A region one area championship round in Pecos, Texas against Lubbock Cooper.
 Whereas for the first time in 20 years, the Isleta High School volleyball team advanced past the bi-district round, and whereas Isleta High School sophomore, Mia Espinosa received the district
 25A First Team All-District Setter Award for the 2021 season. And whereas Isleta High School Senior, Charlize Lopez received the District 25A First Team All-District Libero Award for the 2021 season.
 And whereas Isleta High School senior Lacey Del Pino received the District 2-5-8 First Team All District Middle Hitter Award for the 2021 season. And whereas Isleta High School senior Victoria Ramos received the District 2-5-8 Second Team All District Outside Hitter Award for the 2021 season.
 And whereas, Isleta High School senior Cassie Espinosa received the District 258 First Team All-District Most Outstanding Hitter Award for the 2021 season. And whereas, Isleta High School junior Abby Garcia and senior Caroline Rivera, no relations, but I wish you were, received District 258 Honorable Mention Awards for the 2021 season. Now therefore it be resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso
 First, commends the Isleta High School Volleyball Team for advancing to the 5A Region 1 Area Championship Round. Second, recognizes the many achievements of the coaches and players of the Isleta Indians. Third, recognizes the fans of the Isleta Indians and the people of El Paso for their dedication and support. And fourth, respectfully requests that the city clerk submit and execute a copy of this resolution too.
 the head coach of the ester high school volleyball team mr charlie sanchez the athletic coordinator for the ester high school who's joel martinez and principal of ester high school laura calderon and again mayor this ex this is just an exhibition of the talent el paso possesses and has in their coffers as far as we are concerned and and to echo what my colleague representative rurika said congratulations ladies you should all be proud of yourselves
 Your parents as well miracle for the world There is a motion in a second to approve the resolution on that motion call for the vote Thank you Motion passes unanimously
 Again, for the record, Laura Cruz Acosta. There is a request from a member of the audience to speak on item, on the proclamation item from Ms. Navarez. Ms. Laura, I don't know what the procedure would be. Well, sir, can we have the coach speak first or the principal on this matter first? On this issue, item? What do you want to do? Either the coach or the principal, whoever, if they want to speak, you ask them if they wanted to speak. I also ask them if they want to say a few words to us.
 the public circum
 Hi, good morning. Will you state your name for the record, please? Good morning. My name is Charlie Sanchez. I'm the head volleyball coach at Sled High School. First off, I just want to thank you all for recognizing us and just allowing us to be here. These girls deserve it. Oh, I'm sorry about that.
 These girls deserve it. Success this year wasn't built overnight. This was four years in the making. We have 14 wonderful girls that competed day in and day out. And the hard work throughout those four years just showed throughout the years. So thank you so much for allowing us to be here and congratulations to them. They did an amazing job. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm Gwendolyn Holland I am a teacher at Red Sands Elementary I had the pleasure and honor of working alongside Miss Navarez she was a huge mentor to me I've been at the school for five years and I only know her by her laughter and everything that she gave to students
 and staff and I am just gratefully pleased and honored to be here and say thank you to all of you for recognizing her in such a way. And I have here Ms. Nevarez's mom and her godson. Thank you very much for having us here. I'm speaking on behalf of her daughter and the family. As the mayor first alluded to when he began today's press conference.
 It's a new year and there's a lot of 2021 that was damaging for a lot of people. People were left hurt, but there was a lot of prosperous things as well, too. And that's kind of what I do want to talk about on behalf of my aunt. She was a teacher. The photo we have here of her was from Teacher of the Year. And that was her biggest attribute was actually leading the future to the forefront. Because one day the kids over here may be sitting in your seats. And that's all she ever wanted to do. So really, by you guys allowing us to have the day of...
 January 25th which is her birthday it's gonna mean a lot to her wherever she is because all she wanted to do is just keep leading kids and keep moving them forward so on behalf of the family on behalf of Red Sands Elementary thank you all very much from the bottom of our heart thank you thank you very much
 Council, may we have a motion to recess so we can take some photos? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The motion passes. The meeting is at recess at 919 a.m. for about 10 minutes in order to take a couple of photos. So, Council, those of you who are in this room, go ahead and vote.
 set up over here behind me we're going to take the proclamation photos first meanwhile if i could get the volleyball team and the coaches we're going to go outside i'm going to set you up real quick while they take these two photographs make sure you guys get right under those heaters out there godspeed represent rivera blessings to you sir happy new year happy new year
 Do we have a motion to reconvene? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9.33 a.m.
 Council, per the rules of order, please remember that you may not use electronic devices other than your desktop computer. And once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. You may speak up to twice per item. And also please refrain from side conversation at the day as well the meeting is in session. For those of you joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 Mayor, prior to moving to the consent agenda, we need council to select a mayor pro tem for this meeting since the mayor pro tem and alternate mayor pro tem are not present in chambers. We need to appoint somebody and I think I'd like to see Representative Hernandez. Definitely. Second. There's a motion and a second to elect Representative Hernandez as mayor pro tem for today's meeting. On that motion, Representative Shortsby.
 Thank you. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. So now we'll go to consent agenda? Yes, sir. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Hi, good morning, everyone. Happy New Year. So the proposed revisions are as follows. Page 2, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And this is a request for Representative Lizarraga for the January 4th meeting. Thank you.
 The next item is page 3 item 4 move to the regular agenda for representative Molina She wanted did you want to read that item? It was just to move the regular to the regular agenda. I'm in for Page 10 item 28 postponed four weeks per planning and inspection There page 10 item 28 Are there any other items for members of council mayor? Yeah, if you text me but go ahead So you just text me when you want to speak?
 I did sir, but I'll text again earlier. I got it. I got it. Thank you. Okay. I'd also like to make a request to move item 30 directly before item 20. So if it's both of those items are related to the PSP. So I think having PSP staff there for item 30 right before item 20. So item 30 on page 11 move prior to 28 after 27.
 item 20. excuse me item 20. any other items members of council alternative mayor portem are we taking each item individually since we have the agenda review or we're doing one vote what's that i would um mayor i think the request is can we for the consent agenda items can we hear all the items since we haven't had an opportunity to hear from staff and vote on it as we go along or since we
 So we don't vote on them individually what we do is we hear them and then we vote them on at the end Yes You can request a briefing on each item and then vote on the consent agenda at the end of that Okay, that's perfect. You want to do that? Sure I'm okay with that You need a motion Mr. Pratt? Do you need a revision for that? No Okay You can go ahead and request a briefing on each item on the consent agenda Is your team prepared for that Mr. Gonzalez? Okay, thank you
 No other revisions. Can I have a second, please? Second. Can we now go to item 3? Good morning, mayor and council. Terry Sharp, department of aviation. Happy new year to you all. Item 3 is an agreement for professional service between the city and intertech PSI. This is for geotechnical and materials testing for the project known as taxiway Juliet and K2 reconstruction.
 and this is in the amount of $224,664 with an option for an additional $100,000 as approved by the city engineer. Thank you, item four. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. This is Assistant Chief Humberto Talamantes from El Paso Police Department. Item four is to seek that the mayor be authorized to sign an interlocal governmental agreement between the City of El Paso and the County of El Paso District Attorneys.
 34th Judicial District of the State of Texas for the services to the City of El Paso and Police Department relating to the arrest and prosecution of criminal cases in connection with the District Attorney's Information Management System, also more commonly known as the DIMS program.
 If approved, this agreement will be take effect in January 1st, 2022 through August 31st, 2022. The city shall make payments of $19,888.77 on the monthly basis for that real-time 24-hour screening under the DIMS program.
 This agreement has been in effect between the City and the District Attorney's Office since 1994. And there were just some improvements made for the efficiency of the program that over the years were lost. And that's why we're seeking to get this approved. Thank you, Chief. I think it's important that when we discuss this that
 It's to make sure that we expedite the process and allow the officers to be able to get back on the field and utilize a program that's been around since, like you said, 1994, but with a few adjustments that were done right prior to the break. And this will allow our officers to return to the field and continue to protect our community if it's done properly. And I think that all these
 Ms. Neiman and her team did a really good job of making sure that we adapted to the current times. So I think that's important that we talk about that a little bit. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. All right. With that, yes, District 2, followed by 3, then 7. Hi, Mr. Talamantes. It's good to see you. Happy New Year.
 I'm glad to see that this item is back, but I do have a lot of questions because I know that council had been briefed around the budget that we wouldn't be moving forward with this. I believe the $19,000 a year is a substantially less amount than we were previously budgeting, correct? It's on a monthly basis, ma'am, for the 24-hour service of the program. So the $19,888.77, it's on a monthly basis.
 And is that comparable to what it was in the previous years? It's comparable to, it comes out to $238,000 approximately for the year. Okay. And of course, there's other costs that the county, so the cost is shared by the county and the city.
 I see that. Yeah, I see that. It's the same as the last year. Okay, thank you for that. Sorry, it's Dion Mack, deputy city. Thank you, Dion. And I see the budget page, so I appreciate you sharing that, Mr. Telemontes. And so you had mentioned that there were substantial changes in the mayor.
 You know congratulated the city attorney's office and PD for making those changes And I would love to know what those are because there was no briefing Since our last in which we were not going to continue this program So if you could really clarify what those improvements are going to be I would appreciate that and I'm sure other members of council What as well?
 Yes, would you please Eric since you worked really closely with Chief Silvan on this to wrap it up the final details If you could please articulate on that Okay, thank you
 Representative, the changes that we made to this agreement, essentially the agreement itself in the past since 1994 has only dealt with the money itself, right? The money changing hands between the city and the county. And so what we added in is we added in a lot of metrics, a lot of stats that we're going to be able to see. And we also added in these quarterly meetings with the district attorney's office so we can go over the program itself every three months with the stats that we have to see if the program is working, how we can
 make it a little bit better, how we can process improve, things like that. Those are the main things that we added to this agreement. That's great. I'm really glad to hear that. I wish that this had been the conversation that we had back in August around the budget, but I am very grateful that we are relooking at this program and how we can make it successful rather than abandoning it. My follow-up question
 well I have a few but my follow-up question to that that answer would be we we were briefed previous to adopting the 2022 23 budget that we were not going to move forward with this program and so where is the two hundred and thirty eight thousand six hundred and sixty five dollars annually coming from and I don't think that's a question for you Eric sorry
 DIANE DEBACKER- This is Dionne. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Sorry. DIANE DEBACKER- Ma'am when we when we briefed we were saying that we had met with the district attorney's office and we were waiting to hear back from them in terms of some of the modifications we would like to have seen made. As you may recall there was a Lean Six Sigma project that we worked on.
 And so it was never removed from the budget. It was the assumption that we would continue to try to work through that process. But what happened on September 1st was that we had not yet worked through all those issues and so we had a lapse but we did not unfund the project with the assumption that until we heard that we were we were at a stalemate and could not work on some
 revisions to this that we would have those dollars in place. And I do want to add that I was very grateful that the Sheriff's Office also came to the table to help look at all the work processes that we had identified through that. And so they made some changes as well. We have a MOU that we worked on with the Sheriff in terms of the booking process, as well as the things that we had for DIMS. And our overall commitment is to continue to have a conversation
 to ensure that we can look for process improvements as we continue to move forward and make sure we structure that through those quarterly meetings. So it's not a case where we're not talking to each other about the efficiency of the program and what's going on and how we can jointly help each other to be more effective and efficient for our public.
 Thank you. Thank you, Dionne. I don't know if there is a presentation at this time about what exactly those metrics are that are being put in place. I know one of the concerns at the time were the P-file cases, how many of them were still in review, how many of them were backlogged.
 This is kind of the information that I would like moving forward. I think this is a really great plan. I'm very happy that we've gotten to this point. I thank you all for your work. But if there's no presentation today, I would like a follow-up briefing on what exactly those metrics are and how we're going to be working to reach them. So thank you all very much for this. Thank you, Representative Nello. Representative Rodriguez?
 Hi, Dionne. Thank you for the information. Representative Manello answered a lot of my questions with her questions. But just really quickly, the agreement itself, is this already mutually agreed to by both the District Attorney's Office and the County of El Paso? Yes, ma'am. The County did approve this exact agreement right before the holiday. And so we're second to sign it before the County Commissioners. I'm sorry, you're scheduled to do what?
 it it was already approved by the county ma'am right before the holiday it was approved by the county okay and then uh what about the district attorney's office yeah so the district attorney signed off on it along with their attorneys and then the signatures were applied and then it went before the county commissioners for approval okay um the august 31st 2022 are you trying to sync it up to uh our budget year
 I'm trying to understand why it wouldn't be a longer term. Yes, ma'am. Yeah, so we typically would have this align with our budget year because the amount of dollars that are required would be approved within our budget. And so we would work on our revisions or an approval for this in alignment with our budget since that's the way we've done it historically. Now regarding data, what are the responsibilities from the District Attorney's Office to provide data to the City of El Paso?
 Are we tracking data solely or are they as well? DIRECTOR RIVERA- They both are. Eric if you could pull up that paragraph and just review it a little bit. ERIC GARCES- Sure. So so the way it works representative is we're going to have.
 three spreadsheets and it's going to be weekly, monthly and quarterly numbers. And so they're going to be providing those numbers to us. It's detailed in the actual agreement itself when it has to be sent to us. And Chief Silva is going to be our point contact for that. And so she'll be getting that data and we'll be going over it together. DIRECTOR RIVERA- OK. And those are the those are the staffing graphs at the end of the of the agenda package? FRED PODESTA. Yes so they should be exhibits some
 Exhibits E and F. So it should be at the very back. Oh, you know what? I don't see those. Okay. But it stops for me on Exhibit D. But I'm using a different software than the online version. But I'll take a look at that. Okay, well thank you all. I just want to share the same sentiments as Representative Nello. Really happy to see collaboration and coordination. This is what's going to help excel our community and our judicial system. So thank you for your work on this.
 And Representative Anello, Representative Nunes, to ask questions into the working with the county on this issue. We just simply extended the work that we've been doing with UMC on Lean Six Sigma analysis and how to get more efficient. And so our LSS team was involved with this and was working very closely with the police department and Dion Mack on this issue. Thank you. And I do want to thank also Ms. Dion Mack. She was very instrumental in working through this program.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. And thank you to my colleagues as well. They pretty much asked what I wanted to find out too. I would also like to get brief, Chief, on this if you could. And also, one more time, where was the funding coming from, sir? Mr. Gonzales or Ms. Mack? As Dion mentioned, it was always in the – go ahead, Dion. Yes, sir. It was always in the budget. Okay. Thank you.
 and everybody's already signed up so you just answered that question as well thank you very much yes sir and i think what representative was referring to she's right we did speak about that what she was asking about how some of that was off the table because it was more aggressive and some of the lss efficiencies that were found but in going back and working with all parties and listening to everyone we just we made some additional adjustments great thank you thank you very much and happy new year thank you representative representative um
 Okay, thank you very much, Mayor. So some of you may know this, but I was a police officer for 28 years. I knew DIMS, or excuse me, I knew policing prior to DIMS. And that was as a police officer and a homicide detective as well. Later on, I did come to know DIMS, but as a police supervisor. So to me, there are some issues there that, on a personal note, that are different for me as well.
 I truly believe that the decision-making process to arrest or not to arrest lies with the officer in the field. It should not be approved by an assistant district attorney. And, yes, I understand there is a process involved in that, whether the cases are going to be accepted for prosecution or not. But I really believe that that process...
 decision needs to be made with the district attorney's office not exactly at that time also we need to ask the 34th judicial district comprises three different counties el paso county hudson county and culberson county i don't know at this point if the culberson county and hudson county are working on dams as well i have no idea on that and if they are or not are they paying for that as well as besides el paso county or the sheriff's department so does anybody have a response to that
 Representative Molinar, this is Chief Allen. Right now the only people we know that are paying for the program are the El Paso Police Department and the Sheriff's Department. That's the only information we have regarding that. Okay, sir. Chief, thank you very much. Also, for example, Texas DPS, are they involved in El Paso, Texas DPS? Are they in DIMS as well? I couldn't answer that factually, sir. Okay.
 All right. Thank you very much. And also understand that there's a backlog in some of the courts, and they do like the DIMS process, and that's understandable. But I personally believe that each district court judge who handles felony cases, even misdemeanor cases, they're the ones that handle their own backlog. They're the ones that handle their own docket. So they need to be held accountable for that as well. So in the last couple of years, since 1994, it's really –
 Um, disheartening to me because we have created a culture of police officers who do not know the DIMS process that know that, hey, we're going to make an arrest in the field. This person is going to be charged with whatever one case or assuming one charge or not a felony case, misdemeanor combined, whatever. And then that person.
 goes hopefully goes to court and at court things are done in a good way so i still have some reservations about dims i understand we do have the mou and has been in nice since 1994 but um i'd like to see later on when their stats do come out that uh see how we're doing or coming along if we need to revise that or not thank you very much thank you representative uh courtsman
 Thank you. I just had a question for our Chief. Kind of curious is his thoughts on the DEMS process and historical understanding of policing as well because of his years of experience and leadership for our community. Okay. Well, in concept, I agree to a large extent with
 Representative Molinar, that was the way I grew up in the department and it's a neutral basis on a judge or magistrate making a determination on the validity of arrest.
 With that being said, also the DIMS process is something that's been on the ground such a long time that it is beneficial to both the arresting officer and to the court system in processing the cases through the system a lot faster because they already have an idea which cases are going to be moving through the court system.
 Again, when you look at the overall process, some of the things that brought this to the forefront as far as the problems was the fact that it morphed into something entirely different than its original conception, which was the DIMS attorney making the final determination on the validity of the arrest.
 new aspects of what the county added as far as oversight and whether or not a person needed medical attention, indigency concerns, the validity of the arrest were being overseen by other entities within the county, which presented problems for the police officers making that particular arrest. So overall, the program's good.
 In the analysis of what we were dealing with, we found that El Paso police officers of all the agencies using the DIMS process and booking were far ahead of other agencies as far as making the determinations on the facts of an arrest. So in that concern,
 It's a give or take process. Our officers are well enough trained where they do know the merits of the arrest based on the facts of whatever crime they're looking at. So in that regard, we're not losing anything, but the DEMP process, the way we've constructed it now under the new format is gonna be more efficient.
 The problems that we incurred before is that we weren't overseeing the program enough to look at problems to deal with early on, and now that's been remedied by this new process that we're looking at in the new MOU. Okay, thank you. Thank you, and I think it's important, Chief, that I know you're a big part of this, that you guys will reanalyze and look at it and have a quarterly meeting to make sure that you can make any changes as required. Yes, sir.
 Thank you. And with that, there's no Mayor, that's all the questions. I do have a final comment to make. You bet. It is, sir. Thank you. So, what I would just like to add to the conversation is that this is part of what we're doing to analyze all of the operations related to police and
 If you all know, we have a program to add more police officers. You know we've looked at different programs that we've stood up because of adding more police officers. We've also looked at how they can become more efficient in what they do. I've made the example before that seven years ago there was a contract in place where, not a contract but an agreement in place where we had
 like 48 to 50 officers for like the ballpark events, and we reduced that down considerably. And now they're on overtime, not straight time, because they weren't able to have responses in a more –
 expedient manner because they were all tied up with the ballpark so this is just one more element that we're looking at in order to become more efficient as an organization but also as a police department because it can't just be saw by just adding more police officers the the other thing we've done codes reports to the police department as well you're also aware of the VIP program the volunteers and patrol so we can have more presence out there in the community so again this is part and parcel of our entire review of the police department
 Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. And with that, we'll go to item five. Good morning. This is Cheryl Mack with the tax office. Item number five is requesting permission to place a property for tax resale that was previously struck off to the city. The address of the property is 8605 Hopewell Drive in District 3.
 Thank you. Jose Padilla from our delinquent law firm is available there in council chambers if anyone has any additional questions. There's no questions. Thank you. Thank you. Item six. Item six.
 Perry Sharp, Department of Aviation. Item 6 is an underground electrical easement with the El Paso Electric Company. This is a two-tenths of an acre parcel located at George Perry Boulevard in Global Reach across from the new MarMax facility, and this is part of the relocation of well 94-Alpha as part of that MarMax construction. Thank you. Item 7?
 Good morning, Iberra Hernandez CID. Item number seven is approval of a change order for the Montana RTS project. This is for VMAC in the amount of $133,155, and this is for the needed additional wiring for the stations along the route. Thank you. Mayor, items 8 through 12 are board appointments, and item 13 is a tax refund in excess of $2,500. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you. And we already took item 14, so we'll go to item 15. That's on the regular agenda, Mayor. Okay. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. Representative Molina, did you still want to move item 4 to the regular agenda?
 No, ma'am. I think we covered everything, so thank you. Okay, so this will include item four. So the only revisions are item two to excuse Representative Lizada. Item 28, postpone for four weeks and move item 30 before item number 20. And we do have a second and a motion. Yes, sir. On that motion. A motion and a second. What's that? Representative Givetta. Is my mic on? Hello? Hello?
 The legal description that is posted on the agenda is what binds the action of council. If the backup has a different address, it makes no difference. It's what's listed on the ordinance. Thank you. With that, thank you. The voting session is open. Representative Shorthline? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. We now go to page number five to item number 15,
 This is discussion and action on a plan to secure Union Plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage There is public comment on this item. May I would you like to take public comment first? Okay, the first person is mr Kenneth Bell he will be followed by Yolanda Chavez Leyva followed by Miguel Briones Mr. Bell star six please to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes. You know, I hear me. Yes, sir. I
 All right, awesome. My name is Kenneth Bell. I am calling in support of item 15. It is important to protect and preserve Duranguito. It is the first neighborhood of the city. It's older than the 13 original colonies and it's older than the United States of America. This is the history and the legacy of El Paso. The other cities in our country make deliberate efforts to protect and preserve their history.
 In San Antonio, they had the Alamo. No one would dare put a bulldozer to the Alamo and called it eyesore. In Annapolis, Maryland, they preserved the colonial roots of their historic district, including maintaining the Cobblepot Road. I know that because I grew up in Maryland. I've been there several times. Dern and Guido deserve the same care and respect. It is unreasonable and it's unfair to destroy our community for private interests that have no interest in the welfare of our people.
 Earlier, Representative Salcedo stated that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. challenged us to promote community. Well, this is your test, City Council. To destroy it through either demolition or decay is a direct betrayal of the community and of the proclamation that you all approved of earlier. Remarks complete. Thank you, Mr. Bell. The next speaker is Ms. Yolanda Chavez-Slava.
 Ms. Leyva, good morning. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good morning, Mayor and City Council, and Happy New Year. I'm here as a concerned citizen and a historian to urge the City Council to reinforce the buildings in Badrio do Ranguito.
 If repaired and restored, the area above and beneath the ground could be important sites to promote both heritage tourism and our culture. During the last few years, volunteers have offered historical walking tours to these sites.
 And many outside visitors have told us they would much rather hear about our city's unique history, represented by Duranguito, than to visit a generic arena that they could find anywhere else in the United States. In the recent past, Duranguito has been the site of an authentic fronterizo cultural renaissance.
 artists, poets, musicians and others have come to share their talents with our community and have volunteered to make Duranguito a beautiful and soulful place. Cultural events have drawn hundreds of people over the past five years
 We invite each of you to come see for yourselves. Historians will gladly give you a tour to explain the extraordinary history of the birthplace of our city, as well as share with you the community-generated plan for the rebirth of Durandijo, which shows how that neighborhood could serve as an example for the rest of the country.
 It can be a place that values our history and sees the people who live there not as obstacles to progress, but as important contributing members of our community. They too have the right to be included in progress. Building an arena in Duranguito is no longer a feasible option. We know that it will cost at least three times more than its original budget in 2012.
 Given the city's current debt, El Paso taxpayers simply cannot afford it. We should use what remains of the bond monies to repair the convention center instead. This is completely within the spirit and letter of the original 2012 bond language.
 Barro Duranguito is a jewel in El Paso if we have the will to support it rather than to destroy it. It will draw people from our binational community, from across the U.S., and as we have already witnessed from abroad. Thank you very much for your attention this morning. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Miguel Briones. Mr. Briones, if you're on the line, star six please.
 Miguel Briones, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Miguel Briones. I don't see Mr. Briones. We'll move to Ms. Adriana Montoya. Ms. Montoya, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Adriana Montoya, star six, please. Good morning, ma'am. You'll have three minutes. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Awesome. Good morning, Council. My name is Azadana Montoya. I'm a student organizer in El Paso and currently studying public administration at Texas State University. I'm tuning in today in solidarity with my fellow activists in favor of Item 15, which urges the city of El Paso to secure the Union Plaza area during winter months from weather and potential fire damage.
 I'll start off by saying that reinforcement of the buildings in this centuries-old neighborhood has been demanded by residents and grassroots organizations since demolition crews began bulldozing structures against the Willamette community, now almost five years ago.
 Since that day in September 2017, remaining residents have been fenced in. They've been subjected to the trauma of nearby police riot training. They've witnessed monsoon rains degrade existing damage even further, and they've also been consistently ignored when asking for help to contain and home a local stray dog population.
 So I'll just say this frankly, the city of El Paso has neglected the residents, the infrastructure, and the dignity of Union Plaza, or as it should be called, Duranguito. And what was in 2012 an estimate of $180 million to build the arena is now undoubtedly millions more for something that the public does not want or need.
 through recent beautification projects and the work of local artists and historians, Lula and Vito has in recent years been the center of a vibrant rebirth in community art and culture. The city of El Paso should dignify the historical buildings in Union Plaza with reinforcement to repair and prevent existing degradation. It's
 far more worthwhile and constructive than building any arena to invest in the preservation of irreplaceable history that will disappear if the city does nothing to stop it um i'd also like to point out something that members of city administration and council may have already noticed
 And that is the recent increase in state and national attention and support this fight to preserve El Paso's history has been getting. In 2021, there were television-y segments on NBC, on international channels. There were articles written by NPR, by Texas Monthly, LA Times.
 and more than I haven't even listed about Durango struggle for preservation. So it isn't just us locals who are watching the decisions you all make here in regard to this neighborhood. The world is watching and I hope that City Council will show the world that El Paso values its cultural heritage, values its underrepresented communities, and values its history. Affirm. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Marcos Muñoz. Mr. Muñoz, star six please to unmute your telephone.
 Marcos Muñoz. Laura. Yes. For purposes of the public's comments, all of the items that is listed is about preserving or protecting Union Plaza. So that's the topic of conversation. It's not about the arena.
 thank you miss neiman if the speakers please remain on topic the topic is discussion and action a plan to secure union plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage that is the topic of discussion at this time so please uh remain on topic mr marcos munoz i don't see him in the queue we'll move on to miss sylvia sirfoss miss sirfoss star six please to unmute your telephone she will be followed by ab perrea
 Ms. Sylvia Sirfoss, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Ms. Sylvia Sirfoss, followed by A.B. Perea. Good morning, Ms. Sirfoss. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 Yes, good morning, Mayor, City Council representatives, and City staff. My name is Sylvia Serifas. I live in District 8, and I'm here as a community member to urge you to vote yes on this item to start the restoration of the unique and historical buildings that were damaged.
 Those buildings in the area known as Duranguito have been neglected for too long. They do need to be repaired and reinforced as soon as possible to prevent further damage.
 Thank you. Thank you. I've heard the residents that live there now, the two that are left, Tonita and Romelia, tell me many times how hard they worked to, and they worked with the police department to clean up the neighborhood when it needed to be cleaned up. And they are just heartbroken now in having to live where they are, in a place that's so neglected.
 and so restrictive to them. So we do need to do something. There are people living in that neighborhood yet. We need to listen to, and I ask you to listen to the many voices in the community that value and respect El Paso history.
 There are organizations, local to statewide, historical organizations, small business community, religious organizations, and of course the individuals in our community who have been calling for the preservation of Duranguito.
 You know, two petitions, we gathered two petitions. There's been a lot of research, and you've heard that by Dr. Leyva and some other people speaking about what has been ideas have come forth, planning has come forth to develop this historical site.
 And I just want to ask you, as you discuss this issue, I ask you to remember that we show our values and our respect by our actions. It's not just by our words. Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak on this issue. Thank you. MS. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. A.B. Perea. Mr. Perea will be followed by Angel Ulloa. Mr. Perea, star 6, please, to unmute your telephone.
 AB Perea, good morning, sir. You'll have three minutes to speak on securing the Union Plaza area during the winter months. Mr. Perea, can you hear me, sir? You're on mute, sir. Start six. Go ahead, sir. Okay. Thank you.
 So I think there's been a lot of angry voices in these comments, and honestly, rightfully so, because we've seen this struggle happening for a while, and it has been a struggle. And it's also not – I think it's very important to not separate this conversation from the arena because they're very much intertwined.
 So, and I asked you also to listen closely to my public comment because this is, some of it's gonna sound unrelated, but I promise you that it's all relevant. So last night I was looking up information and resources to get prepared for the comment. I watched the 2020 mayoral debate where former Mayor DiMarco talked about how he represented the community during the immigration crisis back in 2018. And then I came across the comments he made about Durango having no historical value, knowing that it was the Ellis Island of El Paso back in the day.
 And it was interesting because immediately the only way it can make sense was by realizing that by saying he represented the community, he didn't actually mean Duranguito and the community. He meant commerce and U.S. companies that take advantage of cheap labor in Juarez and Mexico for their profit margins. And also by community, he meant immigrants who work in the U.S. who he labeled as productive citizens who contribute, which actually means people who don't have the same rights as U.S. citizens and whose labor is exploited and for many times for commerce rights.
 All this while putting a stamp on it about how beautiful and multicultural and bilingual and richly diverse our city is whenever he talks about immigration, which isn't a lie, but the bottom line is usually business is prioritized in the end and people's liberation, though touted about, is not. I know that it might sound out of place to mention DeMarco since he's not in office anymore,
 But you all are in office right now, and I really think it's important in your position to be aware that what I just mentioned about DiMarco and his comments surrounding Duranguito and immigration. Mr. Perea, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Please remain on topic. This is to secure the Union Plaza area during the winter months.
 surrounding Duranguito and immigration still is this is a clear example of neoliberalism and I think it's also important to be aware that the neglect of Duranguito and the attempted displacement and erasure of its history its culture and its people all for a profit-making machine is a clear example of modern day colonialism and so as elected officials who hold such a privilege of impacting your hands I encourage you to not make decisions that align with the values I just mentioned of neoliberalism and colonialism values that have proven to be
 I'm sorry you're off topic sir I'm gonna have to interrupt you this is to secure Union Plaza during the winter months mr. Pera you're on mute sir mr. I'm sorry mayor go ahead mr. Pera you have 30 seconds all that to say is that these values
 that have been proven to be destructive. And instead, I ask you to make decisions that align with the values of compassion, preservation, and abolition, because those values spark a willingness to learn from and understand underserved communities so that you can rally behind them and actually support them and their needs, all while dismantling the structural systems held in place in colonization and early capitalism. I know that these terms sound like they have been thrown around a lot, but I also ask you to educate yourselves on them.
 so that we can actually redefine our values. I wanted to take the time to talk about that because it is a new year. I don't wanna just talk about the agenda item. Thank you, Mr. Ferrea. I wanna talk about. I'm sorry, sir, you've reached the three minute limit. We'll move to Mr. Angel Ulloa, followed by Graciela Blandon. Mr. Ulloa, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Mr. Angel Ulloa, he will be followed by Graciela Blandon. Mr. Ulloa, star six, please, to unmute your telephone.
 Go ahead. You have three minutes. Ms. Huyo? Okay, can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am. You have three minutes. Yes, hi. Thank you. Before I start, I just want to say that I've spoken on these city council meetings many times and each time I misgendered, even though this time I did put my pronouns when I signed up. So I just please ask that for next meetings, please get my gender correct. This has happened every single time.
 But to go on with my comment, hello, my name is Ms. Angel Yoa. I'm here today to speak in favor of Item 15 and ask City Council to vote yes on reinforcements of the buildings in the Duranguito area
 Well, like many have said before, there have been no repairs or attempts to repair these buildings since the attempted demolition in September 2017. And well, there's no longer reasons for them to be fully demolished, right? If this city has no money to build the arena in that area, which with all due respect cannot be separated from this item because it is the reason why we are here today.
 It would be nice to see some efforts to maintain these buildings that hold such cultural importance to many communities of people, not only the residents of Duranguito, but also the community of people that like to visit and see the art or visit the mercaditos when they're held, and even those who help clean the neighborhood.
 you know, through these actions, they show that there has been a lot done by people, the people, our people, to preserve this area because it holds a lot of importance, as many others have mentioned before me. And voting to move forward with this item would be a great victory for our city and its roots. You know, it wouldn't just be...
 advantageous to cultural and aesthetic aspects, but for safety as well. The residents of Duranguito do deserve to know that the buildings that surround them can withstand extreme weather and fires and flooding, you know, etc. And since it doesn't make sense to move forward
 or since it doesn't make sense for any further demolition to happen, we also want to ask the city to reopen the street and remove the mesh around the fences. There are residents who watch over the abandoned dogs in Duranguito, and that just makes it a little bit more difficult for them to do so. And not only for that, but for well-being of life also for those residents. It's quite sad to know that these,
 beautiful buildings with so much potential and what used to be of a neighborhood filled with art and color and community is now abandoned and slowly declining for what was profit ventures, right? So, I mean, we have to protect Turanguito. It's a very important part of our city.
 And so like I stated before, we're asking you, City Council, to make some steps for the goal to get on item 15. Yes, I understand. We'll move to Ms. Graciela Blandin. Ms. Graciela Blandin, followed by Ms. Veronica Carvajal. Ms. Graciela Blandin, she will be followed by Veronica Carvajal. Ms. Blandin, if you're in the queue, start six please to unmute your telephone. Graciela Blandin.
 I don't see her phone number in the queue. We'll move on to Ms. Veronica Carvajal. She will be followed by Mr. Josh Simmons. Ms. Carvajal, good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Yes. Thank you. Please vote yes to secure the city's buildings in Duranguito. City Council voted unanimously to secure the buildings on November 9th. That was eight weeks ago. Yet, it appears that nothing has been done to actually secure the buildings from the elements, from people, or from animals. As I have stated before, since June, I have gotten inside the buildings regularly in order to rescue a pack of seven adult dogs and nine puppies.
 Ms. Antonio Morales believes that about a year ago, she saw a man entering the buildings with the dog. He was obviously living in the buildings. He was there a couple of months and then he left and abandoned his dog. The dog turned into a dog pack.
 that we just very recently cleared out. El Paso Animal Services got involved in late October. They have seen, they have also been inside the fencing area at Duranguito and can attest to the fact that the doors, windows and crawl spaces in those buildings, which are owned by the city, were left wide open. These buildings have not been broken into. The city just never took the time to even close or lock the doors, even though it has owned the buildings for five years.
 During the course of my visits to the buildings, I noticed damage to the exterior walls. The huge holes that were caused by Alejo Restrepo in September of 2017 have increased in size as the wind and rain have contributed to the loss of bricks. This is especially obvious at the Flor de Luna building. The mansion has a hole in the ceiling from a fire it suffered in the past. That hole allowed the summer rain to pour in and further damage the flooring.
 as well as the walls. The buildings are incredibly strong and well built, but that does not justify leaving them in complete neglect.
 If I owned a building with a six-foot hole in it, I would be cited by the city immediately. Why is the city then able to get away with this? Now, during my visits inside the building, I also saw evidence of people living there, mattresses, blankets, etc. And as you know, just across the street, Don Luciano's building was burned by people trying to stay warm. That building has not been secured either.
 Lastly, I ask you that you reopen the street and you push back the fencing and remove the dark mesh. We all know that visibility and good lighting are excellent deterrents to vandalism. That is what the Neighborhood Watch program is promised on. Neighbors being able to see what is around them and to report any activity that does not look safe.
 Right now, Antonio Morales, Familia Mendoza, and their neighbors are not able to do that. They want to go back to keeping an eye on the buildings for free, if only the city will open up the street. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Carvajal. The next speaker is Mr. Josh Simmons. Mr. Simmons, if you'll press star six, sir, you'll unmute your telephone. Mr. Josh Simmons, good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Thank you. Hello. Good morning, Mayor, City Council, and distinguished city staff.
 My name is Josh Simmons. I'm a resident of District 5, Long, Longbread and Terminal here in El Paso. And I want to urge city council and the mayor a yes vote on item 15 for the plan to secure Union Plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage.
 The Union Plaza area includes Durango, and I want to reinforce the statement made by Ms. Cabral as not to reiterate all those points, all that she had said is quite very important.
 And in relation to the Union Plaza, but more importantly, Duranguito, the city's plan for arena is no longer a feasible option. In addition to my stance for a yes vote in this item 15, I want to thank city management and staff for the extensive waste of taxpayer money in pursuit of a feeble arena. Please preserve the culture and historical significance of Duranguito as part of the Union Plaza area. Stop the whitewashing of downtown area and realize that El Paso will never be a Dallas.
 or a mirror of the justification that has become off the Texas. Mr. Simmons, you're off topic, sir. Mr. Simmons, you're off topic where the item is to secure the union housing area. We need to realize that El Paso is as a unique sector of Texas as it always has been and with a unique vision away from the selfish desires of the oligarchs that rule El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes calls to the public on this item. Thank you. So we do have...
 Do we have a motion at all? Yes, sir. There was a motion by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the item. Okay. So we have a comment from Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Hernandez. Representative Salcido? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I just want to thank my colleagues for putting this item on the agenda. I do believe that securing these buildings is very important.
 I do have a question in regards to legal, in regards to the TRO. Does the TRO hinder or how does that affect this being able to take place? So currently there is no temporary restraining order against the city to demolish the buildings. What we have is a Rule 11 agreement between Mr. Grossman and the City of El Paso that prohibits the city from proceeding with the Texas Historical Commission permit.
 The permit would allow the city to go in and do the archaeological study, which is currently on hold due to the ongoing litigation. So per the agreement between the city of El Paso and Mr. Grossman, the city is not proceeding with the Texas Historical Commission permit. And that is an agreement that we have between the parties until all the litigation concludes.
 Okay. And it also is in line with previous direction that council gave us at the end of last year to engage in discussions with him in regards to how to develop that area. Okay, great. So no TRO and not pursuing moving park. Okay, that is it. Thank you. Thank you, representative. And then she's trying to make public comments. So if y'all could unmute her so she can get her chance to speak, that'd be awesome. Okay, representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you. Was there somebody else that wanted to speak? Let's go ahead and go. Let's just follow what's going on, then we'll come back. Thank you. So, I mean, this item, you know, as placed on the agenda, it's a very simple item. As you mentioned, Ms. Neiman, we all agreed unanimously to protect the building's...
 towards the end of the year last year. And so I was just kind of wanting an update as to where we are on that plan. Have we thought about where the money's gonna come from? Have we thought about how much it might potentially cost us? I know last year we had a really bad winter storm. So that's the reason why we placed this item on the agenda was to protect it from any,
 you know, winter storms that may come this year. We also had a record monsoon season. So just kind of looking into the future and kind of wanting to protect the buildings, as I mentioned before, these are our buildings and we need to take lots of pride and care for them. So just any update that you all may have on protecting them from the weather specifically. Okay, thank you. I would defer to operations in terms of what the buildings are, what the city's doing to preserve those buildings. Thank you.
 So during discussions we have with council directly, part of what staff has concerns about, I think Sam Rodriguez's brief job about this, is the agreement that's in place right now and being able to...
 interact with the buildings in a way where they could be damaged further so we would have to have some sort of agreement in place and take into account the Agreement that Miss Neiman just referred to in order to feel comfortable to do anything further without any other additional implications on the existing agreements that we have and Have we had any conversations about this agreement? I
 Okay, so if council wishes to have discussions about what is happening on the legal front, we can move into executive session and I can give you additional information about what is taking place. But in regards to the existence or the actions that are being taken at the property, I think you can see what is happening at the property, which is nothing.
 The site has been secured for over two and a half years. And the site is at times accessed by people in our organization, either to remove dogs or to secure issues or because we find people that are living in there that it's a danger for them to be in the property. But besides that, the city is not taking any action to do anything else.
 detrimental to the current structures. So I thought that we had all agreed that we were gonna secure these buildings from further deterioration. So that's what this is about. And I understand that we need to secure them from the public and stray animals and all of that, but this item specifically is talking to or about the weather and kind of coming up with a plan to prevent any further damage from weather or even fire.
 So that's what this is about. So from what I'm understanding, Mr. Gonzalez is saying that we need to have a conversation, I guess, with Dr. Grossman about what we're allowed to do to the buildings. Is that what you're saying?
 this is Kerry Weston senior deputy city manager we will based on the discussion today what we'll do is we'll put an item on executive session there are legal parameters in terms of what we can and what we can't do based on the current litigation we'll bring before we develop a plan we'll bring that to executive session and talk to you about that as Carla mentioned
 And then the resulting of that executive session, we would develop a plan. As you know, in terms of mitigating access with barricades and fencing, we've done that now for several years. I do understand council's desire to make sure that there isn't further deterioration with weather, but there are legal implications that have to be discussed.
 Okay, so based on this item, that would be the plan then, right? That you're going to go back and you're going to discuss it with whomever needs to be discussed to come up with the plan to bring back to us to say, hey, this is what we can do to protect the buildings from weather. Yes, and I think you need to be briefed as well in terms of all the legal implications based on the current litigation in terms of what the city can and can't do.
 so we need to inform you of that we'll do that in an executive session item that has to be done before we can develop a plan to move forward if you approve and are you all prepared to talk about it today if we were to move to executive no no okay okay so i mean you know i just
 The reason why I place this item again was because we had all agreed that we would protect the the buildings And so that's what this item was about And so I really hope that we could come up with something in the near future to protect the buildings again Just looking forward into the future. I don't want to see really bad weather Winter storm like we did last year or monsoon like we did last year it could happen So that's my concern and that's why I'm I'm so I guess in
 in a hurry to get this resolved soon, right? Because that's my goal is to protect the buildings and we had all agreed to protect the buildings from the weather. Thank you. Thank you.
 representative Thank You mayor, I want to say I'm really disappointed in the response from staff today Representative Rodriguez is correct we had a conversation three months ago about what we could legally do what we couldn't to secure the buildings and And we amended a motion to have staff go and discuss this when it came to securing them and we're here three months later with no response on that and
 This isn't you know, I don't know what the actual agreement is off of the top of my head We're not asking to preserve these buildings We're asking that you shore up holes in them to prevent and house people from coming in to prevent fires this is a conversation we as a council have been having about abandoned buildings for two years now and these are our buildings and
 We're expecting private citizens to take care of their property and we're not even willing to have a conversation about doing it to our own. And there's a lot of contradiction coming back. Is it the agreement with the private citizen or are there legal repercussions? I'm not getting a clear answer on that.
 I do want staff to come back. I want to understand what the plan from the vote three months ago was, but I also want an actual plan to keep people in that neighborhood and those buildings safe under whatever legal repercussions or agreements there are. It's embarrassing. It is embarrassing that our own property looks like this, that people in that neighborhood are in danger, that we're endangering our own buildings. It's contradictory to what we're trying to ask private citizens to do in residential neighborhoods.
 I thank Representative Rodriguez for putting this forward. There are weather issues that have already happened. There are fire issues that have already happened in this area. I've been saying for a year, an elderly woman is literally caged in in her home neighborhood. It's unacceptable that three months later we're still getting the same response. This is not about...
 political differences on an arena. This is not about political differences on historic preservation. This is about public safety.
 we're not responding to it it's just it's unacceptable so thank you representative Rodriguez and thank you representative Molinar thank you mayor so with respect to the public safety comment representative Vanilla the buildings are secure in terms of having fencing around it had been secure for quite some time as miss Neiman pointed out I do understand and hear your frustration I would just tell you that if this property is under litigation
 So from an operations standpoint, the plan has to take that into account before we do anything. So that's what you're hearing. I don't think, I understand, again, your frustration, but I do want just to tell you and tell the rest of the council,
 that we have to take the litigation items into consideration on the operations side before we touch the facilities in the ways the council wants to do so. Now, the item that you are discussing is to secure, have a plan to secure Union Plaza during winter months from the winter weather and potential fire damage. The background talks about to discuss and create a plan
 on how union plaza may be protected and secure from winter weather and potential fire damage to the buildings during winter months i'm not saying we're not doing that just saying that because of the litigation the way the litigation has shifted there's just different variables that have to be taken into consideration that we've discussed with council and executive session so i don't want the council to to hear or feel something different we will take action as soon as we know what items we can do and when we have certain agreements in place
 And I would, again, say that this was action counsel took three months ago. And I totally understand we put this item up. You're not expected to respond when we put an item up right away. I'm saying that I'm a little disappointed that three months after, we still don't have an answer. Yes, ma'am. I will look at what actual –
 and action council took a couple of months ago, however long that was, and make sure we backtrack that, because we're very conscientious about, council asked for something, we work the item, period.
 So I understand, again, your response, and I just want to make sure you all know and hear that it's not falling on deaf ears. We just have legal considerations that have to be taken into account, and we've briefed that in executive session in terms of those legal considerations. Thank you.
 Representative Anelo, if I could respond as well. The action that was taken by council directed us to also hire consultants and architects and urban designers. You also directed us to do an economic impact analysis as well as to safeguard the damaged buildings and options for funding sources in a way to align with the temporary restraining order. What we have explained to you today is we don't have a temporary restraining order. We have an agreement which is the equivalent of us not touching the buildings,
 We did hear council's direction in terms of how to move forward. That has taken a little longer than we would have liked. You would remember also that the Eighth Court of Appeals ruled the exact day after you all issued this motion, and council directed us to keep moving forward with that litigation. So we are not ignoring council. We are proceeding. However, the litigation has not ceased yet.
 But we are engaged in some discussions with Dr. Grossman and his lawyers to the extent that I will tell you we agreed that the city would not proceed with the historical commission permit. So we won't be touching the buildings until we have additional feedback from other districts.
 architects, engineers about how to proceed to move forward with doing what we need to do with the buildings. Do we, so a follow up question to that. When we have a building here that has been abandoned, and I don't know if there's someone from planning on the line, but when we have a building that is abandoned and someone is not taking care of it, we go in and secure that building. We board it up, we make sure that there's no entry point to that. A lot of times they are in a historic district. Do we need special historic permits for that when we do it?
 And so under the city's authority under the building and standards commission, you can proceed to do that, but it's after a hearing. We don't always do it immediately or automatically, but it's our building.
 Yes, ma'am. Uh-huh. And this is, you're saying that your agreement is to not file permits with the historic commission. We're not asking you to rebuild brick on these buildings. We're not asking you to even go in and put in support beams. We're asking that you go and board up a building like you do any other one in this city when it is posing a threat to a neighborhood.
 And so this is again, this is we can go back and forth on this. There it just it feels like we're being gaslit a little bit on it if I'm just being totally honest. And I don't mean that in a disrespectful way. I just would like a plan to come back. I would like those buildings to be secured. I'm not asking to go to the historic commission and get permission to do anything. And if I if I would.
 If I misspoke, I apologize. I didn't say that we would need to go to a historical commission. The city already has a Texas Historical Commission permit to proceed with an archeological permit. As a result of the ongoing litigation, the city has agreed to postpone doing any of that work. Prior to all of those things happening, Representative, the city did secure the perimeter of those buildings and as you can see on a daily basis, if you drive down there,
 The fence exists in order to secure the buildings and prohibit people from entering the buildings Yeah And if you drive down there you would see that the fencing is not holding up and you would also see at the floor DeLuna so many bricks have come down in the last two years that you can now see a whole second floor that you couldn't See in 2017. So if you drove down there you would see that the substantial injuries and
 to those buildings, the lack of security that those fences are providing, the lack of structural safety of those buildings is real. And every day that goes by, it is getting worse. And if you drove down there on a weekly basis, you would see that. So I'm done with the conversation, I'm done with my comments. I really look forward to a very transparent, open conversation about what we legally can do to protect those buildings and to protect those residents within our means
 uh... as municipal government and as a property owner so thank you very much thank you for the moment but i mean i'm sorry thank you with that said the issue still litigation uh... i would take into consideration to respect that i'm sorry i'm sorry representative and i think that's a slight conversation councilman will you refrain from sight conversations please during the meeting again without what i said with that said uh...
 with the area still in litigation. And we have requested those buildings to be protected, but I would take and respect the litigation in place right now. And in order to resolve this issue even faster than what it would be if we didn't have anything in place.
 I asked my colleagues if we can postpone this until we can get, how much time do you all need? I know the buildings are being asked to be taken care of right away, but if I was to ask my colleagues to postpone this issue,
 How long would it take to get a plan in place that brief us? I mean, I can't make a decision. We can brief you, Representative, at the next council meeting and executive session, and then following that discussion, develop a plan, taking into consideration the legal implications. So there's no reason that it would have to go longer than the next council meeting.
 So I asked if you don't mind Postponing can we amend to have staff return on January at the January 18th meeting 17th or 18th? It since you want to do executive at the next council meeting. So I would The motion okay second
 We have a motion and a second, Ms. Parham, to postpone until the next council meeting? No, to amend, to have staff return in the January 17th and 18th council meeting. We need to pick one out. Well, will they? Okay, so 18th. Because I know they said they wanted to do exactly what we're doing on the 17th, so the 18th. On January 18th? Yes, ma'am. Okay, so there's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera.
 to amend the item to add the language that staff return and brief counsel on the January 18th work session on the amendment. Call for the vote.
 Ms. Prine, can you read out the entirety of the motion with the proposed amendment? This amendment is to add the language to ask staff to return and brief council at the January 18th work session. This is the vote on the amendment, to add this language to the current language. So what would the entire language be? So the entire language would be discussion. It would be to approve, to...
 On the discussion in action, it would be to approve the discussion in action on a plan to secure Union Plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage and ask staff to return and brief council at the January 18th work session. We would then vote on a plan at that point on the 18th? That's for executive session. The briefing would take place in executive session.
 So we're just asking, essentially the item is to ask staff to brief us two weeks from now. Yeah, I would rephrase it a little bit, Ms. Pryne. So I would say discussion and action to ask staff to return on the January 18th council meeting with a plan to secure and so forth. Is that an adequate time, Mr. Gonzalez? Well, they're already secure. I think you're talking about winterizing the facilities. Is that correct? Because, I mean, you can't, I mean.
 There's only so much you can do to a building and I think what I heard specifically when I saw in the back up was the winterization of those facilities they already are By virtue of being fenced like we do in other facilities secure I understand you know, we can't have 24-hour security and all in these different facilities throughout the city all the time Absent that they are secure by definition But with respect to the facilities what I heard was a plan for winterization and
 And we will work on that. Right, and what I heard also aside from that was of the legal issues that Mr. Neiman brought to our attention. Yes, sir, absolutely. That's what I wanna respect as well, the legal issues as far as everything else. Yeah, absolutely, and quite frankly, I know that's frustrating to council, but we've been having conversations over here on our end, and there are a lot of different things that have transpired in the discussions.
 that we have to tell you in executive session we can't tell you our legal strategy or those discussions in public because it's of a legal nature uh but we we as miss neiman pointed out have not ignored the council and and um quite frankly you know we we are very conscientious about results and efficiencies and getting things done so that's not the issue at all um
 But the fact remains this is under litigation, and we're not going to trip over ourselves whenever we have two different sides, regardless of whether you say it's political or not political. It's very political. This is a very controversial item, and so we have to be extremely careful.
 Careful and diligent in what we do and how we do it and we're going to be Go forward especially with negotiations on so I would add an executive session. Miss miss right reef us an executive session Representative I know Will you please restate the amendment? I don't think we need to put executive session like any item that we have if staff needs to ask us to go into Executive item we can take the vote that day. I
 Mean I don't I don't have the authority to put an item on executive session if the city attorney would like to put one on The same day she can do that Can go into executive at the request of the city attorney we can do it both ways that's correct if council I can post it the item myself and then you can post this item in open and we can take them both in executive session Okay
 Thank you. Can I just say something really quick? I just don't want this item to get lost in translation. I understand that there's two, I feel like what I'm saying is very simple. You know, the last time that we all voted on this item, you know, you just read it, Ms. Neiman,
 The end part of it was talking about finding funding to protect the buildings from bad weather. And that's all this is talking about again. So I'm not asking where are we at legally, what's our standpoint legally, where are we in litigation? I'm not asking any of that. I'm just saying we were told, we voted unanimously for staff to find funding for us to find a way to protect the buildings from bad weather. And that's all this item is talking about.
 Now, the plan that, and that's what it's requesting, right? What's that plan? That's how it's written. It talks about winter weather and potential fire damage, period. That's it. That's it. So what's that plan? That's all I'm asking. That's all we're asking is what is that plan? That part of it is not difficult. It's when you have an overlay of the fact that this has been in litigation for years.
 all the different moving parts with that I know that's frustrating to some on the council or maybe to all of you but that's just a fact that we have to work with and so we're not again what you've asked for is not difficult can we do it absolutely but we have to work within the confines of what this has tried inspired into over the years we have to work within those guidelines
 We're not minimizing your item at all. No, and I'm just trying to make it clear what it is that I'm asking. Yes, ma'am, I know exactly what you mean. I'm not saying, hey, where are we legally? What are the legal challenges? I'm not asking any of that. No, no, no, I get it. I totally get it. As a matter of fact, that's the reason why I reiterated what your item said, and it was winterization and fire damage. Okay. Okay.
 So, I mean, I'm, again, I understand that we need to, some things need to work with one thing with another, and we can't really skip over something. In this case, you're saying we can't really skip over as much, as simple as the item reads, we can't skip over the legal part of it, is what you're saying, correct? Yes, ma'am. Okay. I wish I could tell you something different, but that's exactly right. Okay. Okay.
 so I understand that and that's why I think it's okay if you all need more time my my urgency in this again is the weather and that bad weather it's getting colder we were cold outside it's getting colder I don't know if we're going to be hit with the winter storm that's my urgency with it so if we could come back again like representative vanilla amended on January 18th with a potential plan as to hey this is what we
 Potentially can do but these are the legal ramifications or this is what we handle first, whatever We just need to hear what's going on behind the scenes of that You all are listening to us and that you all are doing something to protect the buildings again from bad weather Absolutely and what Carla just advised me is the other thing that she and Sam Rodriguez had done they already have reached out and he was in the process of the bidding process and
 to get to engage all the different entities that she referenced earlier with regard to architects and things of that nature. That was done, but they haven't concluded that process because that takes time as you know the bidding process.
 And so it depends on how much the costs are associated with it, whether we can do it under our authority, we have to take it to council. That's another item that was done also that it's in the works. So we absolutely have been working on it. It's just, you know, we've also had the holidays. A lot of these folks, companies, you know, they break for the holiday too. A lot of issues that have been on the table. But it's been worked is the bottom line. Right.
 But as I've said already, this issue is not a difficult one to do if it was any other facilities. But given the parameters that we have to work under, it is a little bit more difficult in that respect. And also with what you just said, you know, I understand that the bidding process takes time. But again, just...
 looking at the weather, the weather is not going to wait for us to finish taking bids or anything like that. That's, again, the urgency. No, it isn't, and I'm going to redirect that, and I want to talk to Sam. Based on what parameters we can work under, I mean, I think what you've asked for, that process is different from
 standing the buildings up and redoing them or something like that and that's not what i'm hearing no so so yes let us just go back and i think the timeline that carrie referred to is something we can work with and and be uh able to give you a better more well thought out plan okay so may i can finish the vote as uh as presented with the amendment he was he had the floor i had the floor
 I know she cut him because on our item but he had the floor and we'll let him finish them So I'm ready to finish the boat the way it was amended by by us To complete it for the January 18th meeting. Can we finish that or people? Comment was there are still people signed up to speak Council we're in the middle of a vote Some questions before voting
 What was that, Representative Scherzman? Mayor, I reached out to you about a request to speak. I'd like to do it before we continue this vote. Right, correct. For right now? Okay. Will you withdraw your second on the amendment? For right now, yes. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Pryor, how many people do we still have signed up? Here. Go ahead.
 I just I want to piggyback off the conversation that just happened with Representative Rodriguez and Mr. Gonzalez. Mr. Gonzalez, I just texted you a photo of a building in Duranguito. You can see that the city actually went up and boarded half of the building. Half of the building is not boarded up. You can still enter. You'll also see that in 2017, you could not see that second story. You now can visibly see into that second story.
 So weatherization, yes, is important, but we are not taking care of and securing our own buildings in which we have already done so we know that we have the right to do.
 we need to close off all of the entries to those buildings and that photo shows you that the city did go in and close off a portion of them but not the entire thing so that's just a part of the conversation that I would like to have at the next council meeting yes ma'am and it's the one that's got the fencing around it right yeah I mean the fencing your part you're talking about the building itself and I can share that with council if they'd like right just just for the record you know I was referring to the fact that we have secured them through the fencing
 With respect to the buildings, I know that they stopped at midstream when the litigation occurred, Ms. Anello. So I want to be just—
 straightforward with the council with respect to what we've said what we've done why it was done that way you know when litigation occurred we we put we got hands off of the facilities and and that that was what we did back several years ago and we haven't we haven't gone off of that but I understand what the council is asking now and like I said I've already kind of spoken and spoke to the issue and I'll just leave it at that thank you thank you up Sam Mullen are
 Thank you mayor. I'd like to thank my colleagues representative Rodriguez representative vanilla for this item as well I do have some thoughts on this so I understand mr. Gonzalez when you're talking about that we do have the legal issues that we need to deal with and I understand that completely however, we did previously Approve that we're gonna hire consultants engineers and things like that and understand the bidding process has started. Is that correct? I
 The work to do that is underway. I know that Sam has already started that process. He's already had conversations with the city attorney specifically about that. But, no, that has not – that's not complete. And so – but the process to engage that is underway. Okay. So the formal bidding process is –
 No, no, that part of it has not been done. There's a lot of work that goes into it before you actually put it out for bid. Okay. But as far as the work that he had to do in terms of getting people together, he hadn't been able to get that situated yet in terms of being able to get bids in yet and get the process going. So, no, the formal process has not started. Okay. And the other thing I'd like to –
 asked whoever's going to do this if they could uh get a drone i guess i know the fire department has drones courtesy of representative rivera but uh see we can take aerial views of what's happening and not having to understand there's a hole in certain building i don't know if that's correct or not i personally have not seen that hole but still that uh that
 That creates another issue as far as water seeping in and then water moisture and other things like that. We have freezing weather right now in El Paso, so it's not good for that building, that structure itself. That's all I have. Thank you, sir. Representative Schwartzbein? So I'm really curious to really understand, and I know, Ms. Bryant, if you have this,
 to understand exactly what was the motion and action that was taken by the council three months ago specifically, because it seems that, and I don't know if you have that, Ms. Neiman or Ms. Prine, if you have that from the previous council item, because I think that there's a lot of questions relating to what was passed and not. And so I think that would be,
 I think it's important to understand exactly what the Council voted on back then as it was recorded, not as it was remembered. The other issue that's here, and I know that
 Um, maybe is, is being minimized here, but the legal part is a, is a big part is probably the, the, the biggest part of the issues surrounding, surrounding these buildings, um, in the Union Plaza area, uh, specifically because there's, as has been mentioned before, and as every single member of the council knows, there's multiple, um, multiple, um,
 and items out relating towards litigation with this, with TROs and other legal mechanisms currently in place. In terms of these buildings being partially boarded up before, I can tell you as early as 2012, that buildings within the multipurpose center footprint have been boarded up. So that's something that isn't new before there in terms of what the city might have done
 Um, after 2017, I'm not sure that whatever partial boarding, um, occurred was done after these TROs were in place. And so I think it's not as easy just to say that we own the buildings, we can put up, we can put up whatever we want to. Um, we know that, that this is a very litigious, um, situation and project and is very, uh,
 invokes a lot of passions for people from across the spectrum of this community. And I would be concerned about touching these buildings and risking more damage to these buildings and incurring additional litigation without clearly understanding what is and isn't allowed with the current litigation and the TROs.
 and speaking to other members that are concerned about this that we're currently in litigation with. So I'm really hesitant, again, to...
 make an action moving forward without really understanding what it is that's being expected, what it is that this council approved, and also what is it that we're allowed to do without the agreement of any other litigants in these litigations and in these court cases. And so I would feel more comfortable with just postponing this item until the next council meeting.
 and not approving a plan to winterize these and to report back in two weeks. I feel that, I feel that,
 that would be a more appropriate thing to do. I think staff already understands it, that we want a briefing about what was passed three months ago, and this item then could be held concurrently with postponing it for two weeks. But I'm curious if there's any idea about what was passed three months ago, if Ms. Bryant, if you have that language handy. On November 8th, 2021, there was a motion.
 approved by council to direct the city manager or designate to hire a consultant such as architects, urban designers, engineers, and to include studies such as an economic impact analysis and programming operations, execute all contracts and amendments to develop the following information. Project concept, partnership opportunity guidelines including public-private partnership specifications, and financial model to include estimate of capital costs and operating costs,
 which is in compliance with all court rulings and legal decisions to incorporate preservation of historic buildings and to preserve historic character and to direct staff to return with recommendations on how to safeguard damaged buildings and options for future funding sources in ways to align with a temporary restraining order.
 So that last, so the last part was for staff to come back or for the consultants? Yes, to direct staff to return with recommendations on how to safeguard damaged buildings and options for funding sources and ways to align with a temporary restraining order. Okay, and from our legal and operations side, have we been able to figure out right now with the current TROs what that would look like?
 If I may, Mayor Pro Temp. So from a legal perspective, as I stated earlier in the beginning of the conversation, there is no temporary restraining order against the city of El Paso. We have,
 the equivalent of that in an agreement between the city and Dr. Grossman, that the city will not proceed with the permit that it has under the Texas Historical Commission, which means that the city will not do anything to demolish or damage or change anything about the buildings. That's the agreement that we have since the decision out of the Eighth Court of Appeals.
 And then subsequently, what we also have done is began discussing and drafting what would be a bid to follow the rest of the motion as read into the record by representative, by Ms. Prine, that would let us go hire engineers, urban planners, et cetera to do the work that council directed us to do in November. We get an update on both of these items for the multiple parts of this item that was passed by the 18th.
 Yes, yes, sir. We can my office can brief the council on the legal issues by the 18th. Okay My big concern again is is when we talk about securing these buildings You know, we have it in that is there an inner fencing or is there just an outer fencing at this point? Because it's clear it's clear that you know We already know that there's members of the public that are entering into these buildings illegally for a variety of reasons so
 It's, you know, I understand it's clear from the outside, but we've heard from people that have spoken today that they're entering into these buildings for a variety of reasons. So it's clear that there's probably more that needs to be done with security and whether that is
 what that looks like, I don't really know. Again, my big concern is about touching these buildings, even if it is to continue to board them up. I'm very, very concerned that if we're to touch any brick on one of these buildings and it were to change or fall or be damaged that we would be blamed for the destruction of all of them. So just wanna be clear about what actions that we would be taking or staff would be going to do that, what would be the unintended consequences in a very litigious climate.
 and you're correct and i think that's why the motion that was taken back in november was to make sure we got proper recommendations and and hire the proper people to let us know what we can and cannot do so we don't create more damage so and i i would like to see a recommendation and something moving forward within the next meeting as it's been about two months so
 So is there a reason to not just postpone the sign to the next meeting? No, absolutely. Yeah, I agree with you on that. That's what I asked for the one at the date. I think that's the question. So the next council meeting. Right. A second. Yeah. Next.
 we can we can hear the item that point after being briefed by staff well we need to still postpone it though i'd like to see an answer on the november meeting that was uh they said that would bring forward i'd like to see that uh when the item is postponed for two weeks that uh we have some uh clear guidance on where we're going from there yeah i'll delete my motion i mean i do think it's a little disrespectful i did ask that we just added that language but it's obviously council has
 some kind of heartburn with being respectful to our items so I will withdraw my motion and I just asked in the future that we respect councils We need that motion to postpone Rep. Nuttal so you still gonna second that? No? I made a motion to postpone it I thought you made a second. Yes she did. No it was Representative Rivera that seconded it. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby made the motion to postpone it. I'll second it. And Representative Rivera is seconding it. Now for clarification
 Mayor Pro Tem, will this be at the January 18th work session or the January 19th regular city council meeting? I would think it would be the work session, but I would defer to Representative Vanello what they would be more comfortable with. Would you be welcome to. Ms. Neiman, when will you have executive session on the 18th or 19th? We usually do it on the work session, so it will be the 18th. So I think we ought to put it when we have executive session. Okay. All right.
 Council, I'm sorry. I don't think you can postpone from one meeting to a different type of meeting I know that's why I originally made it to amend to be on the work session But I Council request so it would have to be postponed to the 19th to the 19th Which is the next regular City Council meeting that's the next regular City Council agenda We can place that item in executive session on the 19th as well. Okay, Laura. Thank you for that. It's prime Can't they just
 Have the item, if it's the same item, placed onto the work session as an item by itself? Yes, sir. They can place this item, the same item, on the work session. The same item can be placed by you on the work session. That way y'all can have full discussion and not be interrupted by the 10-minute rule that you have on Tuesdays. So if you can just take it off and then just put it on again. Motion to delete it.
 I think it's just... I'm not comfortable deleting the item based on the public feedback, which is why I had originally made the motion to amend the language so that we could put it on the Monday work session. So if you would like, I can remake that motion. Yes. So...
 I would like to remake the motion to postpone or to ask staff. There's a motion to postpone on the floor. Representative Rivera, do you withdraw? There's postpone and not delete. I'll withdraw it then. Okay. Representative Rivera is withdrawing his second to postpone. So go ahead, Representative Manel. So, okay, I need to pull the item up again. So I would like the discussion in action to ask staff to return with a plan to postpone
 by the January 18th council meeting and then the rest of the language as it is. It would be the January 18th work session. So we'll second that. But they want to do it on... Oh, wait, hold on. Yeah, is Martin Luther King on the 18th? No, it's 17th. It's on the 17th, so the work session will be on January 18th with a regular meeting on the 19th. Yes, ma'am. So I'll second. Second. I did. I did. 18th.
 Okay, so there's a motion made by representative an LL seconded by representative Rodriguez to amend the language To add the words to ask staff to return at the work session on January 18th with a plan Would miss prime? Yes, sir When's the work session the work session will be on the 18th on Tuesday because of the MLK holiday falling on Monday The National Council meeting will be Wednesday. Yes, sir. Okay, so we were right on that. Okay, so
 so let's take um let's take action on the motion mayor um i made a request oh no that's okay no and i think the concern was that if we voted for the amended language that we are voting uh for a specific uh plan um and so you know we do this all the time so which is why there was a request to postpone the item
 as opposed to voting effectually voting in favor of the item without actually hearing what the plan is point of order um by changing the motion we're representing hold on and so i just want to make sure that the vote today is that members of council are not approving a new action however we are we are asking staff to come back
 Yes, by changing, by making the amendment, we changed the item to just ask staff to return with the plan. We're not approving any kind of plan. Is that clear from everybody? I'm not approving a plan. I'm not approving, I'm not in favor of specific, you know, comments that members of council have made today. Okay.
 I'm solely looking for a discussion on the issue. Exactly. Because what is gonna go on record is that we are voting for you all to come back with the plan, but then there's gonna be a perceived notion that we are directing you to come back with a plan that we're gonna approve. And so this is all just for the sake of discussion. And I'm sorry that we're kind of belaboring the issue,
 but this is a very uh sensitive topic and i want to be clear that the vote today is not to direct staff to give us a specific plan that we're voting in favor of but to have a discussion on exploring the issue so mr prime could you read that again please representative anello so are you are you amending the language as posted to read to act to direct staff
 to return at the january 18th work session with a plan to secure union plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage yes ma'am okay so we will not be approving a plan today we are approving the action to ask staff to come back with action that we will vote on action to approve all right mayor proctor you're going to put that in executive item no problem
 Yeah, this is why Representative Hernandez sort of nailed my chief concerns. And I think others is that, you know, without the postponement for two weeks, essentially my concern is that the way that it reads is that we're having a discussion action item on a plan to secure. And we're acting to create a plan. And I think what...
 speaking about some of my colleagues that placed it is that they're looking to get an update on the plan, not to approve a plan to secure them. So I don't know if we can amend this language for discussion action to receive an update on a plan to secure Union Plaza as opposed to in terms of creating a plan because again, I think Representative Hernandez said it the way that this is going to read out to the public.
 is that some could read it that we approved a plan today to secure the area. And I don't think that that's the intent of the council as a whole is to do that, is to get an update about what that might look like or not. I don't know if there's from City Manager, if you have any idea or anybody else about how to make sure that this language is read a little bit clearer in terms of intent.
 I think the original, I think the original, I'm sorry. I mean, I just, we do this all the time. I think at this point we're just getting into semantics. I completely understand what you're saying, but I have put up several items. We have put up several items together that have read this exact same way. And so I'm just going to call the question.
 All right, let's call the question. Okay, there's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to ask. The manager was speaking when he was interrupted and I had the floor at the time, so I'm curious if we could hear what he was gonna say. I think you asked a question and she was able to, maybe she didn't answer the question. I asked the city manager, I didn't ask Representative Anello, sir. It's her motion, but. Could you repeat your question to the city managers, Mayor Pro Tem?
 Yeah, my question is understanding how it's, first it's from Mrs. Prine, how the item is being read exactly into the record and second, what is the action that's being taken today? The motion that I have from Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, is to direct staff to return at the January 18th work session with a plan to secure Union Plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage.
 And I guess to the city manager, do you take that as we're approving a plan today to secure this area? No, she's direct. If the vote is in favor, I would take that as we have to have a plan ready on the 18th. And based upon the November 9th meeting, the idea was to come up with a plan to secure this that aligned with the TROs originally, correct? Yeah, the original direction of the council was for us to...
 Essentially without me reading it all over again is to align our resources and get the outside help necessary with these historic structures in order to Secure them in in terms of winterization fire damage things like that And so that's what I explained we were in the process of doing I do understand the sense of urgency council has with this but some of these things take time with respect to the current item I
 I hear it to say for us to come back on the 18th of January with a plan. And we'll also be receiving an update relating to the other items for that November 9th action in terms of hiring consultants, architects, urban designers, et cetera. Yes, we'll tell you where we are in the process. I can't, I don't have a date yet from staff. Okay, thank you. Thank you. With that, we'll call the question.
 Yes, sir. So there's a motion and a second to direct staff to return at the January 18th work session with a plan to secure Union Plaza area during winter months from winter weather and potential fire damage. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, it is 1118. May we recess for mass transit at this time? Yes, please.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1118 a.m. in order to conduct the Mass Transit Department Board meeting. Good morning. This is a meeting of the Mass Transit Department Board for Tuesday, January 4, 2022. Present in council chambers are Board Chair Leiser, Representative Anello, Board Member
 molinar salcido rodriguez rivera board member shortsvine is joining us virtually it is 11 18 a.m board member lizada has requested to be excused
 We don't have any public comment this morning, so we move to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by Mass Transit Department Board to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by board members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. The Mass Transit Department Board may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the
 On item number two of the consent agenda, I would like to ask that council revise it to excuse Board Member Liz Arraga from the meeting. So moved. Second. If there are no other revisions, there is a motion made by Board Member Hernandez, seconded by Board Member Salcido, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Board Member Shortsby? Aye. Anello? Aye.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Board Chair Leaser? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Board members, that brings us to the end of the mass transit agenda. Mayor, I have a question, Mayor. Go ahead, sir. I have a question. I have a question.
 Thanks. At the last mass transit meeting, I made a request to Ms. Smyth to get an update about creating a new creating or creating a route for the new William Beaumont through Sun Metro. I'm wondering if there's an update at this meeting today and if not, why there isn't an update and when we can expect an update for the Sun Metro route to William Beaumont. Can we do an update even though it's not on the agenda, Ms. Smyth?
 We had discussed it at the last mass transit meeting. I understand that. I'm asking Ms. Neiman. Ms. Neiman, can we do an update even though it's not posted? No, sir. You have to stick to the language of the item. Correct. Is there a reason why we haven't received an update even though we discussed about it in the last mass transit meeting? We don't really have any update. But let me call you after this meeting and I'll fill you in on what little I know.
 Okay, I can place an item on the next council agenda as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Council, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting for Tuesday, January 4, 2022 is adjourned at 1121 a.m.
 May we have a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1122 AM. That brings us to page six of the agenda to item number 16, which is discussion on the development and timeline of a bond program in alignment with the implementation of the city's strategic plan. Well, this item might be longer than that.
 Ms. Prine, can we recess for our lunch break early? Oh, yes, ma'am. Did you want to? Is there a motion to recess? So moved. Sorry, Alex. There's a motion and a second to recess. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1122 a.m. for 30 minutes. Council, may we have a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. We now go to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all the citizens of the city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to City business, or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during calls to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have 10 members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. Ms. Sheck's topic is Right or Wrong, Save America. She will be followed by Mr. Ron Komu, Barbara Valencia, Cristina Lopez, Nicolas Amador Martinez. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good morning. Good morning, Ms. Sheck. Good afternoon now. Happy, God-blessed New Year. I start today where I left off in December agenda.
 When I said I wrote to Mrs. Biden, and I did write to her, and I got a letter from him, the old man. And in my letter, I said at that time, please, Mrs. Biden, if you love your husband, your old man cannot die.
 keep the job up at the first office. So please have him resigned. You can do it as his loving wife. Nobody else can. And then I got a letter from the president, which I did not write to him, and that was a surprise, okay? This was number one left over from last year. This is new.
 This is my gift, a label of love for 69 years for El Paso. And I'm working on it, and this is going to be a big publicity, and I expect every one of you to help because you represent the people of El Paso. And may God bless you,
 And you all know my address. The cross is laying up front, and I'm not going to give up. And I need your help to save America, because America really needs it. And I want to work with Mr. Mayor. I want to work with you, but you are hard to get.
 And God bless you all from the bottom of my heart, and my prayers are with you, every one of them. This is a gift to the city, a labor of love for 69 years. 1,800 pages and four volumes. I signed 40 books yesterday. God bless. Thank you, Ms. Scheck. The following speaker is Mr. Ron Como.
 he will be followed by barbara valencia christina lopez nicholas amador martinez steven strummer donald shelton sabrina soto michael castro and marcos muñoz mr komu's topic is animal services good afternoon sir you have three minutes good afternoon i want to start off by thanking you guys how are you sir good afternoon it was a major step in the right direction now we need to address the concerns that we have from the disaster that's followed
 We've got a full shelter with a full freezer. We've got dogs everywhere. You know, this is insane. We now have to figure out what we're going to do to correct this problem. We need to do this together. We need to work together. We need to figure out a way around this. One of my thoughts, and it's just my thought, is we've got all these elementary schools all over El Paso that are being abandoned. They're not doing anything.
 I think we should consider turning one of these old schools that are no longer being used, that have been well-maintained and kept up over the years, and turn that into the new shelter. It'll give us more parking, more shelter space, more areas for the dogs to play. There'll be easy access to get in and out for the community. It'll be out front where people can see it. There's lots of benefits to doing this. Now, that being said, money is an issue, and we all know it.
 We've already got an agenda to give money to the shelter to do some construction, which we're adding on top of a place that has no room, has no parking. In 2019, when we did adoption events, people had to park in the rocks on Fred Wilson because they couldn't get into the shelter. This is inconvenient. People drove off because they couldn't get in. We need to change the feelings about the shelter to our community now. We need to step up. We need to admit that we screwed up.
 We need to let them know that we've changed. We need to let them know that we are now willing to work with them again. And we need to continue this philosophy. We need to go back to 2019. It's going to take a long time to catch up from this mistake. There's way too many pets running the streets in El Paso. Now, just an FYI, 2013, 2014, I don't remember when, at an ASAC meeting, I heard them say we just got the building for the low-cost Bay of Newark.
 They made comments that we had no money available for veterinarians. Me being in the automotive field went looking for money. I sat down and I did a cost analysis on 25 trucks that the city was running through our shelter. The difference between the trucks that they purchased and the trucks that they should have purchased amounted to $427,000 in savings every two years.
 That may be a small amount of money when you're talking about the millions of dollars that the city uses. But if you multiply that $427,000 from 2014 to where we sit in 2022, how much extra money would the shelter have had for employees? Thank you, sir. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. The next speaker is Barbara Valencia, followed by Cristina Lopez, Nicolas Amador Martinez.
 Ms. Valencia's topic is animal services. Good afternoon. You'll have three minutes. Okay, I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. At the direction of Ramon Herrera, animal services in the city of El Paso, through which 301 dispatchers had been instructing the public to abandon stray and lost dogs onto the streets. This is animal cruelty on the part of the released animals who were likely starved to death or got hit by vehicles.
 Animal cruelty is a crime. In the state of Texas, it is a crime to abandon an animal in a person's custody. Each participant on the city level through these actions has conspired and facilitated crimes at the direct order of Mr. Herrera. Also by abandoning these unaltered, unvaccinated animals on the street, Mr. Herrera has put our city in the dire situation of adding even more unwanted
 litters to an already oversaturated pet population and the epidemic spread of parvo and distemper viruses This is put our community in our community pets at risk and is an ethical and moral failure on the part of mr Herrera mr. Herrera has been using his position as director of animal services to intimidate and retaliate against local rescues Is the speaker not? Speaking aggressively about a city employee at this moment. There's no personal attacks during this forum. I
 Please refrain from personal attacks, ma'am. Okay. A government entity will be held liable under Section 1983 when that state or municipal government takes actions designed to scare or prevent a person or others from exercising their First Amendment rights or punish them for doing so. The courts have said there is no dispute that complaining about abuses or violation of law at shelters is a constitutionally protected right. A rescuer not only has a First Amendment right to speak out against abuses and violations of law committed by a government entity.
 He or she also has a constitutionally protected right to demand that the government correct the wrongs that are identified, including the intimidating and retaliatory actions that has put the city now in the position of paying out any damages suffered by this type of abusive behavior. When somebody that's employed with the city breaks the law, they should be held accountable for what they are doing.
 not separating dogs by sex instead by a housing unaltered animals females and male dogs together resulting in dogs mating at the shelter is not only morally and ethically repugnant it is a criminal offense in the state of Texas section 823.003 standards for animal shelter an animal shelter shall separate animals in its custody at all times by sex yet this employee knew about it knew it was against the law and did it anyways using a position
 to lie, cheat, intimidate, and retaliate, and knowingly commit crimes while we taxpayers are paying the salary. This is unacceptable. Thank you, Ms. Valencia. You've reached the three-minute limit, thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Cristina Lopez, followed by Nicholas Amador Martinez, Stephen Strummer, Donald Shelton, Sabrina Soto, Michael Castro, Marcos Muñoz. Cristina Lopez, Ms. Cristina Lopez. We'll move on to Nicholas Amador Martinez.
 Nicholas Amador Martinez, Steven Strummer. Mr. Strummer will be followed by Donald Shelton, Sabrina Soto, Michael Castro, Marcos Muñoz. Mr. Martinez's topic is Veterans Affairs, non-service connected programs. Sorry, Mr. Strummer's topic is no fear during this difficult time. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Sitting out for a long time, no see. This is a very difficult subject.
 I hesitate for the last two years to bring it up. The New York Times had a article two years ago, February 2020 on spit. It's an ugly subject. I asked Laura if I could. They said that the Spanish flu had been transmitted a hundred years ago by spit. There was a ban in the US against it. This virus lives,
 two days outside the body. You could look it up. It was a Saturday edition. This is very serious. This may be the linchpin of how this virus is spreading. All of our communities, the good communities, they're cobbled together with sidewalks, driveways, and parking lots. The worst of the worst is parking lots at the hospital. And I'm very concerned about it, and I'm thinking that
 There could be a modified ban on this activity. It's gross as vile as it is. This could be how it's spreading. Now, your rural areas of the country are not. Flint, Texas has not a single case. There's no sidewalks in the world. I have it on good word. So I thought I'd bring it up. I brought it up to Ms. Darby Winters. She said that she was going to bring this up to the governor's office.
 office but I wanted to bring it up today and I hope I'm doing right by saying this we really have a very serious problem the males in our community love to do this and we've got to cut it out I don't know how only you know it would save I believe it would save lives thank you for your time and your patience and perseverance I've never I've never been
 I've seen you, Mr. Molinar, and I've always wanted to come here and see you. Thank you for your time. As I say, this was the Spanish flu. The Spanish flu was not from Spain. It was from Pittsfield, Massachusetts. It was misnamed. They even had a photo in the article on a U.S. naval yard that had a ban on spit. I know it's gross, but it may save all of us. Thanks a lot for your time.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Donald Shelton. Mr. Shelton's topic is downtown building, building in Iton Bridge and at Artcraft Road. Good afternoon, Mr. Shelton. You'll have three minutes. Mr. Shelton, we can't hear you, sir. Star six, I see your microphone is unmuted. However, we can't hear you, Mr. Shelton. Hello? Yes, sir. We can hear you now. Go ahead, sir. Mr. Shelton, you're back on mute. Star six, please to unmute your telephone. There you go.
 good afternoon all right can everyone hear me all right yes sir all right sorry about that it's my first time calling in the reason i'm calling to make it short and sweet is i read an article in regards to the buildings down uh downtown that are historical and there's been some onslaught about regardless whether they're viable for the city and i think they're very viable because it leaves a historical mark on our on our community
 that we had the troll, I mean the cars, the streetcars that were very important back in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, and that came back, so we should reconsider, keep our historical values here. It's an imperishable skill that people are not learning from historical events in the schools anymore, especially that of El Paso. My second subject is in regard to our craft and the expansion of I-10. It's coming to my...
 knowledge by rumor bill, I hope the city will explain it later on, that there will be a spaghetti-like bridge assembly built in that area. And I'd like to get some clarification on that possible because TxDOT has not given me information in regard to that. I'm hoping the city can expand on that. I know there's congestion in that area because I live in that area, but I just wanna know if that route is gonna be turned into a multi-bridge facet versus a multiple lane highway.
 I appreciate your time and effort, and this will get back to me. I greatly appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sabrina Soto. The topic is denying El Paso Police Department's current request for cannabis testing. Good afternoon, Ms. Soto. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ma'am.
 Good afternoon, City Council. I'm a constituent of District 8, and I just wanted to say if this funding is approved, unfortunately it's going to do more harm than good for the community of El Paso. Again, thousands of taxpayer dollars shouldn't go into arresting and prosecuting us, therefore giving us a criminal record, especially over misdemeanor amounts. We are not criminals for the way we choose to consume cannabis, whether it be for medicinal or recreational purposes.
 We have stated that there is a cannabis community here in El Paso fighting for cannabis rights, cannabis reform, and cannabis justice. We will not stop fighting for this plant. It is the plant that provides for so many of us. We should be working towards decriminalizing cannabis, but by approving this funding, it is doing the opposite and furthering the stigma. A stigma that is negative and outdated.
 and it has been revolving around cannabis and its consumers for over 100 years. Just like everything else, we should have the right to choose how we medicate ourselves.
 Cannabis testing is going to cost thousands of dollars. This money could be put back into the city to help us thrive. But instead, not only are we going to waste thousands of dollars on cannabis testing, but it's also going to cost taxpayers even more money to prosecute these cannabis offenses. Think about the years to come. People are trying to stop the inevitable, but cannabis isn't going anywhere, especially with New Mexico starting recreational sales in April.
 I strongly suggest that you deny this increased funding request. Thank you again. City Council, have a good day. Thank you. Next speaker is Michael Castro. Topic is cannabis decriminalization. Mr. Castro is joining us by phone. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Mr. Castro, you're on mute, sir. Star 6 to unmute your telephone. Michael Castro. Michael Castro, Star 6. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Hello? Yes. Awesome. You can hear me? Yes, sir.
 Okay, sorry about that. Good afternoon, City Council. So cannabis legalization is upon us in New Mexico less than 90 days as of today. So we're less than 90 days away from cannabis legalization, or basically cannabis recreational sales going live April 1st. There are five legal dispensaries setting shop right up here in Summit Park, New Mexico that we currently know of. El Paso, Texas residents, including myself, being the owners of one of them.
 El Paso residents will be able to drive less than five minutes away from the state line and city line of
 to obtain cannabis in any form. Currently, the funding that has been requested and any future funding that may be requested for cannabis testing to further convict or ticket people for the possession and consumption of cannabis in any form is 1,000% wrong. And it falls on the leaders of the city and the leaders of the state of Texas. Again, guys, this falls on you guys and it falls on the leaders of Texas. So we request the city council please help us and not fight us on this.
 You have to help the city of our people. The request for help is a direct result of what is happening right next door in Sunland Park, New Mexico. In the state of New Mexico, El Paso City Council, you guys work very closely with Sunland Park City Council as both cities border each other. If you guys approve funding at any measure to further convict people for cannabis, you are acting in negligence towards the people of this community.
 Like I said before, cannabis is here and is going nowhere. It is very easy to obtain, especially in its many forms. In El Paso, Texas, you can legally obtain CBD in any form, sour, oils, you can also find it out to A&M.
 also Texas, which are 100% legal. And in less than 90 days, everyone over the age of 21 will be able to obtain Delta 9, which is high THC cannabis in any form. It's recreational time. The cannabis industry is about to explode right next door to our city. Make no mistake about it. It makes no sense for the city to waste money going after our people.
 City Council, every single news station in El Paso has covered the legalization of New Mexico. KFOX, KDIA, KTSM, they've all covered it. They're all covering on how New Mexico expects to boom, how New Mexico is ready for the recreational sales to flood in. But we are not talking if we keep arresting the people of our city or if we keep ticketing the people of our city.
 City Council, right now I am in Las Cruces, New Mexico at a grow store, right? I'm going to buy stuff for my grow. Right now, currently as of January 1st, there are over 50,000 plants in cultivation in New Mexico alone, right? In Sunland Park, New Mexico itself, 50,000 plants in a general is not going to be enough to cover the amount of recreational sales that are going to flood in from El Paso, Texas. So again, City Council.
 We request that you help us talk to the rest of the state of Texas. Thank you, Mr. Castro. Let's do something here. Let's change something. Thank you, Mr. Castro. Thank you, guys. Thank you. You guys have a wonderful day. Thank you. The next speaker is Marcos Munoz. Marcos Munoz or Cristina Lopez or Nicolas Amador Martinez. Cristina Lopez. Ms. Lopez's topic is Issues with Neighbors.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Lopez. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Like I said, my name is Cristina Lopez. I have been living in this community for about 20 years already, and I was having problems since the beginning. So it is hard for me to solve a problem by myself. I really need help, and I would like to request, if it's possible, which it is, to be patrolling the community more often.
 Because it seems like every time that we call the police, there's more than one call. The first time that I was assaulted, I called the police and make a report, and they go, oh, no, no, no. We have another call, and we have to attend to that one because that one is more important than you. Second time I called the police telling that I was beating for a dog, and they go, no, there's a lot of people coming from other countries, and they have more necessities than you.
 I was feeling like, oh my God. And I called to the poison office or whatever. And I told them that I was waiting for a dog. And they told me, don't worry about it. If the dog is vaccinated, nothing is going to happen. But if it's not, you're going to feel dizzy and you're going to feel numb and stuff like that.
 And I go, what am I going to do? If I go back to the house, the police is going to come here because I make the report in this address. And they go, no, go to the house. So I went to my house, and I was there. I lay down, and I was feeling the symptoms. So I have to call 911 again. And they were taking forever. So my son took me to the hospital, and I had to get vaccinated like three times for rabies.
 because the DAC beat me, but no report, no nothing was going on because they said, it was when the people was coming from other countries and...
 Sometimes I feel like even the police doesn't believe the things that happen because I don't know why. Because they said that they have a role to follow, and every time that I call, they're going to be calling more and more and more people, so I'll be at the side.
 And the third, fourth time, I was driving my car, trying to get my insurance, and they stopped me, and they told me, well, you didn't commit any violation, but your ticket is due, and you are already here. And I was going to fix everything to try to be driving my car again. And then another officer come, and they go, no, no, we're going to take away the car. And they took away my car.
 Well, I told him well if you don't want me to drive my car to miss Lopez you've reached the three-minute limit Let me get something somebody to to get in they didn't give me the chance. Thank you so much. Thank you mayor That concludes call to the public Yes, sir, we're on page six item number 16 is discussion on the development and timeline of a bond program in alignment with the implementation of the city's strategic plan I
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Alex Uffman with the Capital Improvement Department. I'm bringing up my presentation now while it loads. So this is a follow-up item to our strategic plan session that was held at the end of last year at the beginning of December.
 And so what the purpose of this presentation today is, is to really be highlighting the power of our strategic plan and also a timeline that would show how, if we move forward with the bond that was discussed at that strategic planning session, what the timeline would need to be. And so if we can go to the next slide, please. So like I said, this is really just to highlight the power of our strategic plan. Next slide.
 And so just as a reminder to council that our initial strategic plan, the 2015 strategic plan was adopted in December of 2014. That really looked to align the plan with the city's mission, vision and values.
 And so as part of that, included in the strategic plan were several strategic objectives. In the initial iteration of the plan, it was the 20 and 20 and 20. And then in the follow up, it was the 25 by 2025. Next slide, please. And so just to highlight and really make sure that there's this strong connection between
 What we do through the development of the strategic plan and the implementation into the capital plan is just to highlight some of the accomplishments that we've had with both the 20 and 20 as well as the 25 and 25. Next slide, please. And so this is by no means exhaustive of everything we've done. But again, it's just to reinforce that point, which is that, for example, we've been able to implement our RTS, looking at expanding the airport development as well as implementing our trailhead plan. Next slide.
 We've also been successful in growing our signature attractions, things that have been happening in Santa Santa Plaza. We've also been investing in our public safety facilities and then looking at constructing our Sun City Lights. And so some of those projects are currently in design. Some of them have been completed, but those have been results from 2020. Next slide, please.
 We also realized our aquatics plan, building various water facilities. We've delivered on our quality of life projects, and then we've also expanded Wi-Fi and 54 quality of life facilities. Next slide. We've also completed two Brio bus routes, the streetcar system, and then delivered on several street infrastructure projects that we know are really critical and important to our citizens in El Paso. Next slide.
 And like I also mentioned, then we followed it up with a revision of our initial strategic plan by adding some additional goals in the 25 by 25. And so the ones that are circled here on this side and the next slide please, are the ones that, you know, we've been again linking with implementing not only strategic plan, but also helping realize those goals through our capital plan. Next slide.
 And so as previously was shown in the 20 by 20, here are some of the accomplishments that we've made in the implementation of our strategic plan by looking at some of our targeted redevelopment areas. That's where we're starting to do a lot of our planning efforts for our high priority corridors, looking at Alameda Corridor. As we know that one of our future planning studies is going to be five points. We've started looking at the downtown and uptown by kicking off that study here this month actually.
 We've also been looking at international bridges. Next slide, please. And then again, reinvesting in our public safety facilities with the 2020 public safety bond and then completing various quality of life projects. We've also been looking for new revenue streams and established the citizen-led bond election that was a public safety bond and then expanded infrastructure investment as well as implementing multimodal transportation. Next slide. Thank you.
 And then finally, looking at our Eastside Master Plan. So we're gonna start seeing a lot of those policy recommendations being brought forth to council in the upcoming months. And then we've invested in animal services by the $10 million that was approved for shelter improvements. Next slide.
 So then just to recap again what we discussed at the latest strategic planning session is that there was five additional goals that were incorporated. One of which was that was discussed was the development of a bond package focusing on addressing identified community priorities and needs aligned with targeted areas of investment. Next slide.
 And so to achieve this, what we're working with right now as the language for this potential bond would be the community progress bond that we'll look to be capitalizing on some of the categories, again, that were identified during the strategic planning session. This is by no means exhaustive, but just really a representative slide of what would potentially be included as part of this bond. Next slide, please. And so working with legal, if we're looking at a,
 a bond election at the end of November, like was discussed in the strategic planning session, we need to have a bond introduction ordinance that would take place no later than August 2nd of 2022. And so what we'd be looking at needing to do starting here relatively soon would be to kick off the community engagement and public outreach, which would lead to project selection that ultimately would go into that bond introduction ordinance. Next slide, please.
 And so the way that we're proposing to do this is that the capital plan development will follow these two parallel tracks that I'll go into in greater detail, but essentially that there's this engagement component and public outreach component that leads to project selection and then, of course, is brought forward for voter consideration. Next slide, please.
 And so with capital plan development, this process has already been started. This is the great work that we did with the city council during our strategic planning session that we started identifying some of the.
 the projects and programs and ideas that maybe that you would want to see as part of the capital plan and this is of course guided by our strategic plan which was really what the purpose of the first part of this presentation is all about was how we take the strategic plan and then we bring it to realization through our capital plan and through um your bonds um
 We also represented some different ideas in terms of the different lenses that we wanna view the project selection through. So this is where I presented to city council at the strategic planning session about our equity tool, as well as some of our service gaps that exist in our city and looking to close those. Next slide, please.
 Now, in addition to this and really what we want to start into our next phase here is the public engagement component. So public engagement goes beyond just outreach. It's really trying to get qualitative feedback from the community to figure out what their priorities are. And so when we start this process, things that we really want to make sure that we're doing is that we have quantifiable tools. So how do we capture feedback?
 and make sure that it's something that can be presented back to council to give you a good idea in terms of what the community is saying that they want. We also want to provide some real-time feedback so that way it's a very transparent process. The community can see how others are viewing the priorities of our community.
 We also want to make sure that whatever data that we're collecting is spatial, which I'll get into why that's really important here in upcoming slides, but really just trying to make sure, A, that we have really good geographic coverage in terms of how we're getting feedback from everyone, but also to give an idea in terms of whether or not there's different needs for different parts of our community
 and really making sure that we have the ability to capture that. And finally, looking to make sure that the feedback is categorized again, so that way, as we start to develop a potential bond, that we look at, you know, what are the community priorities and can we start bucketing different ideas together in order to maybe, you know, identify what the different bond initiatives will be. Next slide, please.
 Now the next step after public engagement would be public outreach. So this is a little bit different. And sometimes the words are used interchangeably. But for our discussion today, I want to make sure that there's some differentiation. So public outreach is what happens after we get the public feedback to let the public know this is what we're moving forward with. And so this would take place
 after we identify the priorities of council and then also the priorities of the community that we would be informing the community in general in terms of what the projects that are going to be included as part of a bond package would be. Really what the purpose of this is is to build awareness around what our campaign is, also to make sure that we're targeting different audiences. Maybe if we're not, you know,
 finding that we're reaching out to all segments of our population. We can really start to target through public outreach those audiences that have not been engaged thus far. And then, of course, then making sure that we're building momentum. And so the idea would be that through this public outreach, that it would continue in leading up to the eventual bond election where we'd be building momentum up until that point. Next slide, please.
 And then another point that we want to make sure that we do, that's really a feedback loop to all of this is sentiment. And so we have some tools that are available to us where we're able to track public sentiment as it relates to specific keywords and really looking to utilize these tools to determine whether or not we're on the right track. And if we're not, we use that information to maybe retool our public engagement efforts or maybe our public outreach
 And it's really also to allow for us to follow trends, making sure that we're trending in the right direction, and then to identify opportunities where maybe we need to do additional public outreach if a certain part of our community is having a lot more negative sentiment towards some of the ideas that are being expressed. Next slide. And then finally, looking to utilize all this information into validation. And so if we've done public engagement, we've done the public outreach,
 that we can present this information back to city council to validate the results and make sure that what the community is saying and what we're proposing are aligned and making sure that the results of this are live, they're accessible and transparent for the community to see what the results of this are. And then again, filtering it through to make sure that we're addressing our service gaps that we know that are really important to fulfill. Next slide.
 And all this will eventually lead then to our project selection. So as discussed during the strategic planning session, we want to make sure that our project selection is objective, that it's data driven, and that if we do it right, we can replicate this process into the future. Next slide. And then of course, once we do all these different steps, then it will be brought forward for voter consideration.
 And so we've been talking with the performance office, and right now the plan is that there's going to be a recap of the framework that's going to be presented to city council on January 31st. And so that's when we'll bring forward again if the council desires to see it.
 those vision bubbles that were presented. And we can again get that validation to begin the public engagement process and present some of the ideas that were presented to staff and to leadership during that time to start presenting those to the public and getting feedback for public engagement and public outreach methods that were presented here today.
 And so that concludes my presentation. Again, it was really just to highlight the power of our strategic plan, linking the strategic plan to our capital plan, and also to highlight the timeline of what would be necessary if we move forward with the bond election in November of this year. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem? Thank you, Mayor. It's always nice seeing you, Mr. Hoffman. Wonderful background you have there. Thank you. Thank you again for a great presentation.
 So kind of curious, I'm going to go back to that sentiment slide. If IT can bring that back up. I'm familiar with the slide, but I can answer your question. It's the yellow one. So I guess help understand. So this is the sentiment is sort of basically getting in, getting in what people's feelings are from the public outreach that we'll be doing.
 Yes, exactly right. So there's some different tools that are available to us. So one that we can do is obviously we can make sure that during our public engagements that we're capturing, you know, people's attitudes towards some of the different ideas that are being presented.
 We also have some opportunities through more of a passive technology that's going to be available to us where we can, with different keywords, be seeing the sentiment through social media on what's going on.
 people's attitudes towards different ideas or just a potential bond in general and using those data points to then help us gauge how our public engagement process is going and how we maybe need to change some things to get more positive feedback from the community. And so it's both an active engagement tool as well as a passive engagement tool of people who maybe wouldn't participate otherwise. Okay.
 I'm just curious. I know that on slide 18, it shows a sort of timeline that the community engagement occurred in early winter and then public outreach would engage in spring. Are we looking at like the strategic planning session as that community engagement or is there additional engagement occurring based upon this timeline? I'm trying to understand it because yeah.
 Yeah, so the plan would be that we'd be doing additional community engagement. And so the strategic planning session was the kickoff, if you will, where we identified some of those vision bubbles. And now that we have the different ideas that were both coming from staff as well as the city council, that we would use that information to begin presenting those ideas to the public to get feedback on those things.
 Okay. I do think, you know, looking at where there's service gaps and other issues of need across the city is a really appropriate way to look at. I'm just kind of curious, you know, the sentiment that's based upon public outreach. Do we have an idea of how we're going to be doing this community engagement and outreach? Are we looking at...
 Are we looking at, you had mentioned online sort of polling or other things, are we looking at doing, now that we have that calligrapher that was really great at the strategic planning session as a way to capture feedback.
 and ideas from the council and from city staff? We're looking at something similar to that with a Charette style or design lab when it comes towards the outreach. And then do we have an idea of kind of how many meetings are we looking at one per district? Is those discussions been had yet for project and initiative? Alex, if I may, if I may, Alex, this is Laura Cruz Acosta, communications director for the city.
 Just to provide a general understanding, we are at the early stages with regard to this process. What we will likely follow is similar to what we experienced during the 2019 safety bond.
 We had developed a variety of different methods. We went out through social media as well as traditional media. We had hosted a number of different community meetings in person at the council members community meetings themselves as well as hosted standalone community meetings throughout the community related to the details of each of the bond projects that the council had had approved.
 So once the council members have finalized the process in terms of what projects you want to undertake with the bond project, then we'll go out to the community in order to obtain feedback and an understanding of what's going to be on the bond. Okay. I do think that feedback and outreach is a really important part of this, especially with a project that's very much being driven by the needs.
 of the community that we really sort of make sure that we have enough outreach and engagement to listen to their concerns and what they're thinking about, not just what we're thinking about in terms of projects as well when it comes towards streets, ecotourism, those other sort of focuses that we're looking at as well. So I just wanted to stress that again. Certainly.
 Certainly, and that's something that we have been successful in terms of, for example, with the chime in process. We were very successful in obtaining feedback from the chime in process, and so we'll likely mirror some of those components in order to get feedback from the community to your point. Yeah, I just want to stress that I think having those in-person meetings and not just focusing on chime in for one or three weeks. Yes, it has to be a multi-pronged approach.
 Do we have an idea of when we'd have those in-person meetings? Not at this point in time. We're still in the early stages. So probably by the end of the first quarter you think or? I can't I can't exactly give you a timeline at this point in time sir. Okay so we're in terms of this timeline we're all looking at we're not yet at the community engagement we're in the middle of the community engagement level? We are we're building it out yes sir. Okay thank you. Thank you.
 Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Rivera. Thank you and Laura thanks for bringing some of that context up. I was part of the process as support for staff at the time during the 2012 bond election. And so something that I've learned in that process is that there has to be a clear communication with the public so that they understand what is the framework.
 and what are the goals of that specific bond? Because when you present it to the public and then you use that chime in process, they're gonna respond and say, well I want a community park near my home. Or I want X, Y, and Z related to quality of life or however people wanna see their needs as. So I think it's really important to narrow the focus and to have at least a framework
 where we can provide to the public so that they can give back feedback. Because it very well may be that the public instead wants to see more concerted efforts towards quality of life, as opposed to basic infrastructure, which is what we have been seeing and what the demand is. So I wanted to throw that out there because my fear is that the response from the public is going to be a greater –
 Need and a greater emphasis on the quality of life which one can argue that you know streets and infrastructure is quality of life but that's usually not the response we get from the public and so Whether or not you have that discussion early on and say hey, you know the City Council in the mayor could say hey We want to focus on your basic infrastructure because that is clearly what you have asked for or do you want to change the conversation to say Public tell us what you want
 because they very well may be, hey, streets plus quality of life, X, Y, and Z. So I just wanted to throw that out there because it could get incredibly, you know, like controversial and be like, hey, well, what is the intent of the bond election? I've already seen references that, you know, that this is going to be, you know, specifically quality of life, but really, you know, the discussions we have had during the strategic planning session has been solely on how do we improve
 our aging and infrastructure and dilapidated infrastructure. So I don't know what that solution is, but I wanted to throw that out there for a food of thought. And so if we can try to narrow that focus, or maybe we don't, but there's gotta be a strategy on how you roll it out for public outreach to the community.
 And Mr. Nundis, and also to the Mayor Pro Tem's comments, that's the reason why we wanted to give you an overview, get that input from council, additional input. We got a lot of input from you all during the strategic planning process. I want to make sure we get any additional insights before we do roll it out. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. And that's a good point, Representative Hernandez. My question to you, Ms. Cruz-Gonzalez, or Ms. Gonzalez is, when you said it was kind of like a chime in, are they going to allow those back again and then mesh it in with what council comes up with?
 the suggestions for the presentation.
 So it's going to be a multi-pronged approach. And so what I mean by that is that we have to be able to do both social media as well as in-person as well as virtual. And so we will likely do surveys like we did with the chime-in process. There will be informal opportunities, and those same surveys will likely be in-person. And that chime-in will continue throughout the – up until, I guess, right before the bond introduction? When is that planned to –
 When is that date, the projected date, to have all that together for the bond introduction? So if you look at, if IT can bring back the- It says here August 2nd, but- Right, if IT can bring back the, thank you IT, yes. So you look at that outline in terms of the bond introduction, you have to have it by August. So at that point in time, the council has had to have decided on what items we're gonna bring forward to the community, to the voters.
 And at that point in time, we will do another round of outreach for the community for them to understand what is on the bond election. But prior to, we want to be able to get input from the community to ensure that the council is able to make the final decision as to what we're bringing forward to the voters. Okay. Will they be able to participate virtually as well? Yes. Okay.
 That is the intent, to have that multi-prog approach, to have the social media option, to have the in-person option, and to have a virtual option. And, of course, the outcome would be the most items that the people suggest throughout the city, correct? To be able to provide any feedback in order to bring forward the proposed bond language to the council. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Ms. Christ. Sure. Thank you, Representative Salcedo.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say great presentation and it's really good to see that this clearly embodies the whole strategic meeting. I'm seeing a lot of the things that we talked about, so I'm excited about that. I do also like the process.
 mapping you all did I think that's very clear and so I am I'm actually looking forward to working with the community so that we can put this bond together as a community and really address those needs so just wanted to say thank you for the staff and I'm looking forward to it thank you yes mayor that brings us to the next operational focus update which is item number 17 and it's an update on strategic communications and city TV
 Chair Pro Tem you put a request in just now was that on prior item? That was on the prior item. I guess it was just to reiterate when we were looking at these projects that we have the PCI study PCI index that we're currently working on but we also have previous CIP programs and projects that we've been looking at over over the last 10 years as well that should be looked at too as part of this but that's something we've already talked about.
 all right thank you all right mr cruzacosta uh yes sir for the record laura cruzacosta communications director for the city of el paso if i t if you if you can share the social i'm gonna let you drive at least the initial
 Okay, so this really is a very brief update for you all. I wanted to be able to take an opportunity to talk about some of the great work that my staff is doing for City TV folks. They often don't get the attention that they really should be getting. And so just a quick update and taking an opportunity to showcase some of the work that they've done over the in the most recent times.
 And a quick bite in terms of City TV. It's a staff of about three folks that produce, edit, and design for the entire city.
 And so they are a phenomenal group of folks that are often seen behind the scenes. You see Jose Solis behind the scenes as well as Mario Ramirez and Nigel Sherman, who's actually in the control room today. They're a really phenomenal team that has been working on this project for the longest time. It's a project of love.
 so the city 15 first aired and it was the first municipal agency that had a tv channel in the state of texas since then there are obviously others however it was one of the first ones and they not only air the city council meetings they also do the yc5 they do all the boards and commission meetings that need to be aired in a number of different projects that are listed there on the screen
 and I wanted to showcase the last Your City in Five that was aired. And this is a weekly video program that staff produces with the support of one of my communications folks, Rick Isayas. So and it is having audio issues. So
 This was a bit of a hiccup with audio. So we recently upgraded over the weekend. During the break, there was audio issues that we updated, and so it may not air properly on here. No, IT, it's not working. Okay, let me see if I can do something a little bit different. And if IT will let me drive here, I'm going to go ahead and do a little bit different. And for those of you who don't know...
 Our city programming is on YouTube. No, it appears to be a technical issue here in the room. And I think Peter has a question. The mayor pro temp has a question. No, I know that Representative Lazarga had brought up some questions about the...
 strategic information office. I'm just wondering because of some of these technical difficulties, if maybe we just wanna postpone this update to the next council meeting on the 18th so that Representative Carter could be present as well for this. What I'd actually like to do is be able to provide y'all an opportunity to view the Your City in Five on every council meeting in order to share that information that is on the YC5 at every council meeting to the community. Yeah, we'll go to the next item.
 that's fine okay all right yes sir the next item is number 18. this is presentation and discussion by the covet 19 response and recovery cross-functional team providing information on key activities efforts and processes i believe we've lost a quorum oh no we do have a quorum we'll begin with an overview from our city manager mr tommy gonzalez
 Okay, so since we had a lot going on over the holidays, I'm just going to be giving the overview, turn it over to Carla Neiman, and then she'll turn it back over to me for closing. We did have a lot of work going on over the holidays. We've been monitoring the data, trends, and indicators of the pandemic. We've also used that data to be very proactive in adjustments to mitigate the impact of the virus on our community.
 With respect to the data, after a brief decline in new cases during the weeks leading up to the winter holiday, we're now experiencing an increase similar to the rest of the state. However, we still aren't at the levels that the state is at. Our daily new cases have increased by approximately 80% over the last two weeks. It's now averaging 500 new cases or 57 new cases per 100,000. That's over a seven-day rolling average.
 These numbers represent a community of high transmission with nearly 11% positivity rate. But when you compare that to the US and to the state, they're at 23 and 25%. So we're still half of where they are, but it's still alarming that we've increased. So that's a comparison again with the state and with the nation. With respect to breakthrough cases, 43% of new cases reported over the last two weeks were breakthrough.
 I know I've had some conversations with some of you all individually that have called me over the break and discussed that. So that is a high number. That's not just happening here. That's happening across the state and across America.
 As far as healthcare readiness, in terms of healthcare work that we've done with the hospitals, we're again seeing an increase in hospitalizations due to COVID with over 375 patients currently hospitalized. That figure represents almost 18% of overall hospital capacity for our trauma service area.
 As we've done throughout the pandemic, we do maintain a close contact with our health care service providers to ensure staffing and capacity is available. To this end, this past Sunday, the Department of Public Health issued an update to its guidance to mitigating the staffing shortages to address the current surge we're experiencing because they are experiencing staffing shortages as they've had.
 employees who have been in contact with someone who has COVID so they have to quarantine or they indeed have COVID themselves with respect to the health care workers. The guidance that they put out is intended to assist hospital-based health care workers to return to work to ensure adequate coverage in the local hospitals, authorizing health care facilities operating under crisis standards to implement their own internal staffing shortage plans. As far as the testing update,
 As the numbers increase, so does the demand for testing. So over the last two weeks, we've seen that demand nearly double. So during the holidays, we did plan for that. We were proactive and added more staffing and expanded the hours of operation at our COVID clinics to ensure the community has access to necessary preventative measures.
 I know you've gotten some calls on some wait times. That's happening across the United States. Again, we did add additional staff and we did add hours so that we could help people as much as possible with regard to their testing. As far as the vaccination update, we recognize that early on and by focusing on continuous improvement that we were recognized in having really good numbers by the CDC and Rockefeller in terms of the best rollout.
 Today, we continue that same momentum to monitor vaccination rates and benchmark those against the state and the nation. Today, we're at 91% of our eligible population. Five years and up, they're partially vaccinated, while 74% are fully vaccinated.
 Again, that's quite a feat given the fact that the numbers have changed with respect to who is eligible. So those numbers are still strong numbers. Again, the breakthrough cases is alarming. That's something we're monitoring and paying close attention to. Again, when we compare to the state, the state has 72% that are partially vaccinated and 61 fully vaccinated. Again, that compares to our 91% and 74% where they're at 72% and 61%.
 The nation is at 78 and 66. So we're still ahead of those numbers, and we, again, encourage people to get vaccinated and also follow the layering protocol. So we continue to work also with school districts and local health care providers to increase childhood vaccination. Sixty-six percent of those age 5 to 15 have been partially vaccinated, while 43 percent have been fully vaccinated.
 And the state is at 36 and 26 in those numbers. So again, we're still working very closely with the schools and working assiduously with our staff to increase these numbers.
 With respect to the data, 30% of the El Paso population age 16 and older that has been fully vaccinated has also received a booster. So I just wanted to share that information as well. I'll pause here and turn it over to Ms. Neiman, who will cover the legal overview. And I will close when she concludes, unless you have any questions for me right now. There's no questions. Sorry. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Contales.
 Can I please bring up the presentation? So, Council, I have a very brief overview. You've seen this presentation before. Can you go to the next slide? As you all know, the governor has continued to extend his disaster declaration every month since March of 2020. We anticipate that he will be renewing the disaster declaration on January 26 or 27. Next slide.
 And then likewise, council is being asked once again to extend the disaster declaration, the emergency measures ordinance, and the public right-of-way ordinance. All three of them expire tomorrow if council does not take action. I think that at some point in the past, some of you questioned whether we needed to continue to do this simply because we were on a downward trend, but now that we're seeing a spike in the numbers, I think it's important that council continue to extend these declarations, especially because it provides
 the Office of Emergency Management with the ability to secure funding and resources from the state and federal government. Next slide. We haven't seen any movement on the council's or this body's mass mandate against the governor. We had anticipated that the 8th Court of Appeals would have already issued a decision in the temporary injunction, but it has not. We continue to monitor that and we will provide you an update as soon as we receive one. And then the next slide.
 It is my belief that the reason likely that the Court of Appeals is not moving is that it's waiting to see what is happening across the state. As you can see on the slide, we see the same issue happening. There's some mask mandates that are on hold on parts of the state while others remain in place, specifically out of Dallas and San Antonio. Those items continue to have, those two cities continue to have mask mandates in place.
 And then the additional updates that we wanted to provide you with, as you all know, the United States Supreme Court has agreed to take up the case regarding the federal contractor vaccine mandate. That will be heard by the United States Supreme Court at the end of this week, which requires that all private entities require that their employers receive the vaccine and that's
 It is likely that as a result of that decision out of the United States Supreme Court, we will get more finality in terms of what businesses and governments are permitted to do. Next slide. And then finally, you've seen additional updates at the Texas Supreme Court in terms of how courts are proceeding. We are still under an emergency order for the Texas Supreme Court, which places some
 ability to continue to have courts in person. Most courts in El Paso continue to have Zoom meetings and they have limited the amount of interaction between the courts and the public, which does place some, it delays some of the work that we do as a city in the courts as well as other people in the community. Next slide.
 And then finally, on our prosecution update, as you all know, we do continue to issue citations for violations of the various orders that this council has directed us to process. These are the cases that are still being tried in a municipal court.
 Next slide and then I will turn it back to Mr. Bonsalves to finalize this So council, I don't know if you remember back to March of 2020 I talked about how this was going to be something that we thought was gonna last three three years minimum
 Unfortunately, that prognostication is going to be accurate and it's probably going to be longer than a three-year period. You made a lot of tough decisions from a financial standpoint, also from an operational standpoint, and also from a public health standpoint. Those tough decisions are not going to wane in 2022. They're going to continue to have to make those kinds of tough decisions in those three areas. You're hearing a lot. You heard a lot over the last two weeks.
 whether you read about it or you saw it in the in the on the on the television that's not something that's unique to el paso the state and the nation is is dealing with a lot of issues that has to do with hiring that has to do with the fact that then the people that you do have hired are getting infected and so they have to quarantine that's happening across our departments and so i know i sent you a couple of long emails over the holiday um and and some were not so long but had some articles attached to it that kind of spoke to that
 So I just wanted to talk to you about the fact that we're going to continue to have challenges in the financial and the operational and public health standpoint. It's not for a lack of effort, not for a lack of results. You've seen the numbers. You see how we compare with the state and the nation. We're going to continue on that trend to get those type of results for our community. We're going to continue to be proactive. We're going to continue to make those adjustments as we need to.
 We appreciate, I very much appreciate the phone calls, the emails that y'all send me, the text messages. You're very attuned to the community's needs and every bit helps. This has been a team effort and we've attacked this problem as a team with the council, with the staff, and I think that that's been a very good type of teamwork and a good product, good ingredients to get the good outcomes that we've been able to get.
 So, we'll continue to address these challenges by integrating and aligning a lot of our efforts. We've taken some steps, not only on the operations side, as you know, we've gone back to more virtual for the non-essential and also the administrator type positions so that we can
 the spread as much as possible because we have seen an uptick like I've talked about. Financially, we continue to work with COVID CFT to consider our financial plan, including the use of the federal funding allocated through the America Rescue Plan legislation to address the pandemic. The uptick that I mentioned and the fact that we had more staffing and extended hours, that costs money. And so we have to pay for that.
 So I know that the ARPA funds, we've briefed y'all individually and we said we're going to come back with a briefing that we had planned to do in late 2021. Then we pushed it to January. We've been methodical with that approach because the legislation continues to change even now in terms of direction of what was passed and how you can use the money.
 and we really need the lion's share of that to go to operations. I know I've said that to all of you. We've listened to y'all also on the community's needs and some of the things that we have added into that, but I want to caution and advise as much as I can that we want to use as much of that money
 for operations as possible in order to limit our exposure. Because then when we come to budget time, there'll be a discussion about how we wanna make sure that people have been impacted by COVID and they need our assistance when it comes to the operational dollars and the taxes. So I just wanna make sure that y'all hear me when I say that we've been really methodical about how we utilize those ARPA funds.
 So again, back to the pandemic details, the layered approaches is what we continue to push. Because since we do have the 43% of breakthrough cases, you know, people need to mask up need to separate need to wash their hands as much as possible. And not only because of COVID, but also because of the flu.
 It was the first flu case reported in the world that also had COVID. They're calling it Florona. So that's something that's out there already. So you get a combination, you get a double whammy, and it'd be real difficult to overcome. So we really want to encourage, and I know when we talk about
 the live active El Paso and people, you know, really working on staying in shape and working on their health, that people say, well, for some people it's too late. What if they already get it? Well, some people have not gotten it or they have had it, they don't have it now. They need to work on their health because if you do get it again...
 The healthier you are, the better you'll be able to respond to it. It's no different than any other disease in that respect or any other virus. The healthier you are, the more you'll be able to overcome in terms of being able to take on more on your body. So anyway, that concludes the presentation. Again, we have been listening over the holidays. We have been seeing what's been going on. We have been proactive. We have been making adjustments. I know what you've seen in the paper. I know what you've seen in reports.
 I would just remind the public, remind you as a council that again, COVID has had an impact. When we say it, those aren't just words. It's had an impact on us financially, operationally, and also from a health standpoint, and that impacts our services because if we have people that can't provide those services,
 because they have COVID, you know, they have to quarantine. And so that's the reason being able to do this virtually has been extremely helpful and has shown that we're very agile as an organization to still get the results out there that we've been able to get this past year. So that concludes my presentation, unless you have any questions.
 We do have Representative Anello followed by Mayor Pro Tem, then followed by Representative Mullen, or Representative Anello. Thank you. So my first question is for Mrs. Neiman. Mrs. Neiman, is language in regards to inflation prices still in our order?
 Yes, ma'am. We continue to have language that talks about price gouging. But still based on the market, correct? Yes. Okay. And how are we determining kind of like what the market is, right? Because I know that there's a lot of –
 There's a lot of impact on the market and so prices are going up. I mean, it's inevitable, but how are we kind of determining where the gouging and the need for inflation is? So the way that we become aware of it is if the public files a complaint as a result of the ordinance that they believe that essential items are being, you know, the item is being exorbitantly increased.
 then we would be able to investigate as to whether or not they were in violation of the ordinance. And then furthermore, we would also be able to contact the Texas Attorney General's Office and file a complaint with them about the price gouging as well. And they do have market analysis that makes those determinations. Perfect. That's helpful. Thank you so much. My next question is about testing. I don't know, Mr. Gonzalez, if we have access to...
 kind of like what they call the at-home test right i know that they were available at the capitol building and they were actually required at the capitol building i know we cannot require people to be taking tests and i'm less concerned about here as i am like our senior centers that i know that we've recently opened full-time now we see the numbers going up yeah um i've
 I've, you know, received concerns from the seniors who did want the senior centers open about how some people don't wear masks, right, and we can't require people to. So I didn't know if we had access to those tests to allow people to take that, you know, suggest that people take them.
 uh... before entering the senior center which i know is also not a hundred percent guarantee because you cannot test positive for three to four days after being infected that's exactly right yeah but i think it might just make them feel better but i don't know if the state has provided those for us i i know in the state of massachusetts you can request up to twenty of them just to be mailed to your home but texas is not taking this as seriously as other states uh... i know mario the agostino is on the call if he wants to respond otherwise we'll we'll get that and and and
 to respond later. Mario, are you on the call? Yes, sir. So Representative, the state is not providing to that level. They have been providing us rapid testing. We've been using it for congregate settings. We've been using it for first responders, for our homeless population. But there is not the quantity there. Another thing is the state's having trouble with the number of people that are
 acquiring them at this time there has been a federal issue with the supply chain and so they're unavailable just like they're unavailable at walgreens and cbs where they were readily available two weeks ago we're having that same to buy them on bulk so we have no capability to do that type of testing at this time okay thank you for that my next question mr gonzalez you briefly mentioned this is how we're dealing with employment so i know that you said you scaled back so have
 We've gone back to phase one. We have. Okay, and have all employees gone back to phase one? No, ma'am. Just like we did in the beginning, we do that where we can in the organization, if it's administrative kind of work. In some cases, like the streets department is a good example. That's one that doesn't scale back to that phase one all the way back. Their phase one looks much differently.
 but in terms of going back to phase one for the others that can, we've done that. That puts us roughly at around 50% of our employees. The rest can work from home. And that's still a hybrid because like
 Those of us like the council and other administrative positions like our positions. We're still here You know We kind of do a half and half kind of deal But we do that in order to make sure that we don't continue the spread because the numbers have gone up in our organization No, I agree and can we can you clarify how that works? Do you determine?
 what phase we're in or do you is that a city attorney situation no we do that operationally but we consult with mr. Neiman and we also consult with with the fire chief as well as dr. Carranza so I think it'd be safe to say that all non-essential city employees are working from home right now I don't want to and I don't want to say that they're not essential because all of them are extremely important but those that are able to do that virtually
 That's the whole fact that we've been so agile as an organization. I really want to commend IT for really helping us be as agile because I know that in some cases we've been even overperforming in some of those areas because people have more time and they don't have –
 the necessity of childcare and things like that if they're at home. And so we've seen actually the productivity go up in some instances. Okay, and so is the department head able to say to his employees that we're not considering essential or if they are, I think you used the example of like information officers, is he able to say, I know the city manager has put us on phase one, but I need you to remain in the office? Yes, it depends on the operational necessities. And so they are given that latitude.
 uh but they are also strongly encouraged that the majority of them should should work virtually uh unless there's some operational necessity otherwise in order to get the job done sure and just so you know that i i've spoken to some city employees who feel like their department has made that decision um kind of unjustly and that they're not shouldn't have to be working in person and we can have that conversation offline absolutely and i can also carries right here carries actually i put him in charge
 of the execution of the different phases and which phases we're in so he's he heard you just now and i'll make sure he'll make sure he follows up with all department heads and makes that very clear to them sure and i mean i think oh i'm sorry no the only other thing i'll add to what to what the city manager just said especially since we have just gone back within the last week to revert back to our to our initial phase there will be some impact to some of the in-person services that we were up
 And so we'll make sure that we communicate that if we have to go back to some appointment only for some of our services, just as an example, when we were able to go to a more hybrid workforce and bringing more people back, we were able to do more in terms of in-person appointments at places like our planning and inspections department. Well, now we may not have the manpower to do that and back in phase, going back to the initial phase. So these are the kinds of things that we're gonna have to work through over the next couple of weeks.
 As we do, we'll let the council and public know through our communication. Sure. No, I think it's extremely important with the numbers going up that our employees are feeling safe again. And so my final question is along the same lines. I know that there were some departments that implemented a need for a doctor's note if you were not feeling well. Now that we see that these numbers are rising, right, the last thing we want is to make people come into work if they're not feeling well.
 this is a pandemic this is how things spread I know you're saying most people are working from home but there are streets department I imagine Sun Metro PD fire that are working in person and so I'm wondering if we're going to put that on hold until our numbers level back out there are some there are some operational necessities that we have in place where that is required because of the nature of the work in terms of
 the policies across the board, they're done like that across the city in terms of a policy that's executed across the board. In some cases, I know Sun Metro, I know sanitation, those are of necessity in terms of public transportation and sanitation and things of that nature. So you might have gotten that feedback perhaps from some of those particular areas. But yes, we are very much...
 you know looking at our employees health and their concerns i think we've done a lot in the last several years to show that that we listen to our staff we do make adjustments based on that but we do also have to get the work done so we do have a balance there and i do believe we have a good strong track record to show that we do listen to our employees we have town hall meetings we have surveys and we do make adjustments and if you hear something whatever we hear you know all points
 of information are very helpful. Some of it might be just anecdotal. The whole story might not have been explained. Or in some cases, what you've explained and what they've explained, they're right and we need to make an adjustment. So we're listening to all aspects of information. Well, yeah, I mean, I'm just wondering what the necessity is when somebody could potentially be infected.
 No, absolutely. If they're not feeling well and they have not had time to go get a test because they've been working for shifts, but they don't you know, they're supposed to show up tomorrow to drive a bus and they haven't had time to get a doctor's note. Your policy is requiring them to come into work.
 Well, if they are infected with COVID, they could potentially impact everyone that's riding that bus that day. And so I understand that it is a necessity. I did not agree with the policy when you put it in. But I think right now is definitely with our numbers rising a time to relook at that temporarily because we –
 I mean, it's just I think I saw the stats today that there were a million positive COVID cases in this country today. Yes, ma'am. I mean, that's more than there was a year ago. Yes, ma'am. And so we really need to go back to being concerned about our employees and the public, even though everybody has COVID fatigue mentally. Yes, ma'am. That's totally on point. And it kind of speaks to what I said earlier about y'all making decisions and going forward that we're going to have to make.
 Some of those adjustments, let's say we make those course adjustments, it'll impact the routes. So we'll need councils. I understand, but I'm just saying that because, I mean, it might be the obvious, but I'm stating it because whenever we do make those adjustments, you get that feedback that,
 Part of what I said to y'all over the holiday was just to remind y'all that a lot of these stories or a lot of these things are being discussed. It's kind of the same story being told over and over and that COVID is impacting us across the board. So it's not like we haven't been hiring in 9-1-1. We haven't been hiring for police officers. We haven't been hiring for senior recreational officers.
 positions so that we can open up the senior centers. It's been a byproduct of the hiring process and then now the infection rate being what it is. And it has been COVID related. And so we very much take a lot of pride in being very conscientious and taking responsibility for our actions. That's the reason it's difficult for us to point towards things like COVID. But we have to also point out the obvious challenges.
 and not over promise and under deliver. So I think if we do make adjustments, just know there'll be impacts to the services. Yeah, no, absolutely. And I mean, I think it's worth stating that we're put in a really poor position in which we have to make these decisions and go backwards because we're not able to even have a discussion about shutdown or have a discussion about proof of vaccination for certain facilities. Right. And so unfortunately, our only option is to go backwards and look at cutting services if that
 that becomes the only option. So thank you. Those are my only questions. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Representative Ranallo. Mayor Pro Tem, followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you again, City Attorney and City Manager, for the presentation. Sorry. Yes, sir.
 I think Representative Vonello brought up a lot of my concerns, kind of where we are in terms of our workforce and in terms of precautions we are to have to keep them safe.
 Having people come up to work and then having to stay at home, becoming sick or testing positive diminishes our workforce more than I would think if we can keep people proactively at home, working from home so that they don't have to cancel. Now, I understand, too, that when it comes to Sun Metro, it comes to public health and public safety, police and fire. Those options aren't as readily available. And so from what I understand, we went back to our phase one.
 And again, just for edification, what departments or what positions are that that are working from home at this point, city manager? I can answer that, Mayor Pro Temp. So this is based on our initial phase, primarily our administrative personnel, just as we did when we started the pandemic and we did our initial stay at home directive within the workforce. So administrative employees, but as the city manager mentioned,
 Obviously, we don't have the luxury of doing that with all of our services, police, fire, streets, and others, environmental services. So for us, you know, from an agility standpoint, it's very easy to revert back. It makes a lot of sense from a protection standpoint in taking care of our folks. And we're evaluating now if there are additional services that we can do virtually by having to do it in person just because of the spike with Omicron.
 but as far as in so far as your question as to the the departments we can provide that uh carrie can get that and send that out to council today you're going to have to some degree mayor pro tem you're going to have you're going to have personnel throughout all of our departments that are in some form of of virtual uh work that are administrative
 No, and I know that we've been good at having a hybrid thing. I think it's just important for the public to know. So, I mean, you could share that information with us, but I also think it would be good to share that with the public, which, you know, this is what we're doing to keep our workforce safe, our community safe. You know, things have changed, and things will change over the next month. I mean, I think one of the big takeaways, you know,
 city manager brought it up that this is something we're going to be living with 24 to 36 months through another thing that public health and medical ethics have talked about is that
 you know, the phases of this pandemic, it's not going to be the same throughout all the time, right? There's going to be times where the seasons change, where we'll have less restrictions, we'll have more restrictions, we'll close down, we'll open up. And I think that our community should know that that is, we're at one of those times right now with Omicron where
 where taking those advanced precautions, making the choice to work from home if possible is going to help our community as a whole in terms of trying to contain this spread with this new barrier. And so I think that letting people know and leading by example, I think is one that this administration institution has done over the last few years and continue to do so during this newest wave of COVID.
 that hopefully will be not that damaging to our families here in El Paso. So I do think it would make sense to share that language there and let people know that, yeah, you are taking this seriously. We are going back to a previous phase to keep our families and our residents safe.
 Is there any discussion about in terms of the school districts in terms of what they're looking at doing in terms of dealing with this new spike and this variant that has arrived. DIRECTOR DEWOLF I'll let Mario D'Agostino chime in on their discussions with the school district. DIRECTOR DEWOLF So Dr. Okadonson the Department of Public Health has been meeting with the districts. They met with some of the districts even last week. We have weekly meetings where we do sit down with them and we talk through the process.
 They're looking at going back some of them as early as today, the rest of them coming online this week. What we've talked to them about the importance of surveillance and monitoring a number of children they have out sick, monitoring those that have symptoms, making sure that they're going for testing, whether they have provided testing to recommend them to their doctors, to whatever their nurses can provide, or even to one of the city facilities to get a test.
 So we are following that. We're tracking those numbers. We're working in conjunction with them so we can see if we do see any spikes over the coming days and weeks as they do get back into the school setting. Okay. And then some of the...
 The public testing facilities just been hearing reports about really long lines again and some of the facilities in terms of restrooms for people waiting in line. And I think that we've been pretty adept at dealing with that. So I want to thank you, Chief, for for.
 responding to some of those concerns that we're hearing. The facility that's office sun. Mayor Pro Temp, if I can just really quick, if you don't mind me interjecting to your question or that comment you made, that's the point where I made that we did add additional staffing and then we added hours. And then we also added some, we worked on getting some porta potties to one location. So just wanted to just reiterate that point. Thank you.
 And as I was saying, thank you to the chief and chief for responding, for being flexible towards towards that and what we're hearing on the ground. I have heard from a number of constituents relating to the facility that's off of Sun Bowl Drive, the COVID testing. I don't know if that is something that we are doing with UTEP or that's a UTEP facility.
 driven one, but I've been hearing concerns there with traffic management, with people cutting in line and with the traffic spilling way off of some symbol.
 Yes, sir. So that isn't, it's in cooperation with UTEP. We're utilizing our provider that we're doing some of our, that we are using for our mega sites. So it's LTS, they're the company doing it here in town. So it is in conjunction. We had some traffic management issues. They were actually doing UTEP faculty and staff.
 testing in the same location as general public. And so they were allowing some lines to cut up and around and it was creating that perception. It was causing cars to intertwine with each other, trying to, I was here first type of thing. So they are separating that to make that easier. They did get the porta potties set up and we are tasking law enforcement, UTEP law enforcement is out there specifically for the UTEP campus to assist with that traffic control. I do have to say, when we talk about COVID and the effects it's had in the past few weeks,
 LTS is providing all of our mega-site support.
 And right now they're about 20% staffing out due to COVID, whether they're positive or in quarantine. And so that's a big hit to the operation. They're doing their best to overcome. We're filling it as we can, as we can assist with those voids. But when I look at fire department operations personnel alone, we have over 68 people out currently right now on COVID or some type of COVID leave, and it does put that. So we ask the public to be patient,
 We'll get them in. We do have other options. If they go through one of our clinics, they can actually schedule an appointment. While it might not be the same day test, at least they don't have to wait in those long lines. LTS is continuously staffing and restaffing, and they're bringing more people on board. I believe they are bringing a large group of additional people that will be trained and ready to go by Saturday. So that will help. It's just a matter of if we can control the COVID from spreading and they can keep their employees healthy and continuing to work.
 So we are putting in all efforts on hand, but we'll look into those things and we'll see if we can get some additional traffic management specific to that.
 Yeah, and that's really what the concern is, right, is that with how fast this new variant is spreading through different populations, vaccinated, unvaccinated, and everything in between, you know, when you're talking about a spread that fast where one person can get it and give it to three others, you know, basically being in very close quarters or not even close quarters, like it very quickly comes to a time where a lot of functions that we have in our society start to become impacted.
 You know, when you were just talking about having plus a 70 fire off, you know,
 that, you know, personnel that's out right now, just because of testing positive and with sickness, multiply that throughout our, you know, food delivery system, through our supply chains, through our hospitals, through our schools, through our buses, you know, and it becomes evident how debilitating this can be, you know, in a matter of weeks to our community and other communities throughout this country. So I do want to just stress that I think
 Absolutely going back to this first phase is the appropriate thing. And if we need to be thinking about other ways to keep our people working from home to try to mitigate the spread, then we should be looking at that as well. And I know that we are.
 as well. So again, you know, when we think about how this pandemic spreads, it's not something that is, is a straight linear line. There's times where this, where the spread is faster, the spread is slower. It's a summertime, it's a winter time. And we need to be flexible and adaptive to the, to the virus because the virus doesn't care about,
 If it's summer or wintertime, it's going to spread because that's what a virus does. And so it's up to us to be looking out for each other, to being compassionate towards each other and doing the right thing.
 I hope that I have heard other communities of having challenges with receiving testing materials. I know that our governor who has been downplaying the need for vaccines is now requesting the federal government for help for additional testing materials and treatment materials, but I'm just
 Curious, in terms of where we are with the materials for testing, we're in a good place right now with our community? Yes, sir. And that brings up a good point. All of the testing supplies have been processed through the state. So they're coming down the stream from the feds through the state and out to the municipalities. So we haven't had issues with that. Right now, we're currently stocked. We do have a well amount of supplies for our PCR testing.
 As far as the availability of rapid at-home personal use testing, that's the difficulty. But that's a supply chain issue at the federal level. So when they put the restraint on it, it puts the restraint on the state, so the state no longer has supplies of that nature to provide to the municipalities. We are working, you know, through the Office of Emergency Management. We've reached out to our federal partners. We're asking for additional test kits such as our migrant shelters.
 Those were provided directly from the state. Now we're asking the feds to provide that since the state doesn't have access to them. That's just a difficulty that was added in the past couple of weeks, but we do continue to push and strive for that. But as far as the regular PCR supplies, I have not heard any issues. Last time we did an inventory, we were looking really well.
 Great. Well, thank you again for that. And I do think I do think it would it would make sense to put out some information, letting letting the public know that we return to phase one and urging, you know, appropriate, appropriate offices and other other workforces that we have here to think about, you know, how to keep people home, at least for the next the next month with Omicron spreading throughout our community now. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Moulinard.
 Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Neiman, our municipal court, are they being teams meetings or are they meeting in person? Yes, they're doing...
 Virtual, and then the public is allowed to speak based on the judge if they've allowed the courts to open, but the majority of our municipal court hearings are over teens. Okay, awesome. Thank you. And would you have municipal court employees there in person? That's right.
 So they're being impacted as well in terms of the COVID infections. We just got a report on that yesterday. Okay, so is there a reduced number of court hearings or court? No, the defendants are in person, and then the majority of the staff and our lawyers appear virtually. Okay. So we limit the amount of interaction with the public. And is that working well? Yes, sir.
 Good point. Thank you. Mr. Gonzalez, have we received the second tranche from for the ARPA funds? No, sir. You're talking about the not to my knowledge. No. No. OK. And I believe this has already been answered. Well, Robert, I know just saw him on the line. I don't know if he's correct. No, we're not going to see that until sometime in May, beginning of May. OK. Thank you, sir.
 I believe the chief did I go stand already answered but we're not receiving or excuse me We're not having any major issues from the state of Texas reference testing supplies or vaccinations Well, like he said we are having some supply issues some chain chain issues But right now we're good, you know, but if it continues will be
 will be impacted but like he said the feds take it down to the state state takes it sends it to us we did have some luck on the therapeutics uh we did reach out to them and that that is back in in flow again so we're we're in in the in good shape there also and because that was proven to be working uh for people who had covet to get on those therapeutics so that's good news and do you have a buying chance how many patients or people have been processed through that
 No, I do not know that, but Chief might know that. Or maybe for the next city council meeting we could have a work session. Yeah, I can have him look into that and see if we can get that number. Thank you. That's all I have. We'll get you that. Thank you, Representative Nello. Thank you, Mayor. Chief, I have a question just based on the conversation you were having with Representative Schwarzbein. Were you saying that we are in a shortage of testing or we're not?
 or tests sorry about testing as far as pcr testing our laboratories are not sure any of our local labs any of our local or any of our providers who are actually doing the testing for us they're not short of any supplies so we're not seeing an issue on that as far as pcr testing when i talked about the the shipment and the process of handling the the rapid test or the personally done code
 COVID testing, those are backlogged across the nation. So there's no access to them. It's not an issue of the state. It's more of the whole federal system. They're not available at this time. So we continue to do that push. We still have some. We're still testing congregate setting locations, and we're still working all the angles we can to ensure we can keep that flow going. But that's the only part where we are seeing issues. As far as PCR testing, again, we're not seeing any lack in supplies for there.
 Okay, because I was just trying to make an appointment for a test and there are no appointments for the next two weeks at any of our locations. So I don't know if that is a glitch in the system or I don't know. I don't understand. That's demand on the system. And so what we saw is we can talk about the week that led up to Christmas where we had over 17,500 tests system wide. That's throughout the whole region of El Paso here. So whether it's hospitals, clinics, the city of El Paso or any of our testing avenues.
 Christmas week that jumped at a 60% increase to over 29,000 tests and those numbers continue to climb so that there is that demand right now for testing we're trying to meet that as best we can like we talked about the COVID effects and the ability to staff is is difficult we urge all residents to use whatever means they have whether it's going through a private provider a clinic a pharmacy whoever is offering testing get the testing is wherever you can as soon as you can
 so we're not planning on opening up another testing site immediately due to this this need
 Well, right now, like I talked about, it's a matter of staffing. We don't have any fire forces to pull over to assist with this surge right now because we have the ones I just talked about who are out on leave. Our providers are out 20% this week. That's a dynamic number that keeps changing daily. And so until we have more staffing to get the full capacity out of our current sites, it would not behoove us to open up an additional site until we get that staffing back.
 It's a cyclical argument. I mean, I understand that, but I also... We don't have cell phones. Oh, I see what you're saying. I mean, I understand that there's an issue, but I also understand that this is... I mean, it's crazy to say that we don't have a test available for two weeks to anyone. Yeah.
 And so I don't know, I mean, how many sites did we have open in June of 2020? We had the Viscount, we had Memorial Park, we had five additional sites that were open, correct? Mario, jump in on this, but there are clinics where we have it by appointment, and then there's the other ones that you just drive through. So they're both, Mario.
 Right, that's correct. And so you if if we're two weeks out for an appointment, that's at one of our clinic sites, we still have the drive through open open daily. So we do have those sites, the mega sites, those are still available, those are not by appointment. And so it's just a matter of getting there and getting your test.
 And which are the mega sites? Those would be the county sports park on 1780 north Zaragoza, U-tip at 3333 north Mesa, nation Tobin park at 8831 railroad.
 i believe that's it that is it right there mario uh chief director this is laura cruz of course um if i may um just for the record laura cruz communication director so on my screen and i don't know if i take him yes thank you on my screen on the ep strong website you can see on the testing page the listing of all of the testing options that are available to the community
 available to the community we have by appointment at our Remcon facility as well as our railroad and the Candelaria which is the athletic clinic and the reason that the athletic clinic is because we are currently using the Alameda clinic that we have on site as our infusion treatment
 Additionally, without an appointment, we have the locations with the state. It's at UTEP, at the County Sports Park, at Nations Tobin, and at the Don Haskins facility. Those are without the necessary requirements for an appointment.
 In addition to that, there is also the Walgreens testing, CVS testing, and we also have a partnership with We Medical Lab testing. And those have different options available to them, the walk-in appointments, the drive-thru appointments, and the at-place of employment location as well as home lab appointments.
 We have partnerships with Walmart as well as with Revive Medical and Endeavors Laboratory. So there's a number of different options available to the community that we have listed on our EP Strong website. We certainly recommend that folks consider getting tested with the city because they are free.
 So in some of these locations there are costs associated. In most cases, no, but there is, for the city in particular, there's no costs associated with that. Well, and that's why I asked, because we want to make sure that people can get a test if they don't have insurance. And ours are all free, but they're just all full. I mean, I know the Line Nation Tobin the other day was six hours long for some people.
 which I guess is just the norm again. But it is good to know, I'll tell you, most of the places on this site are all full for appointments. And so it's just concerning. I don't know if the state is planning on helping us out again, but again, just very concerned about that situation. Thank you. You know, and I think a good point also is that I don't care where you go today to try to buy a home test, rapid test, there's none available anywhere.
 So that's created a huge backlog for our city and all our testing sites. Representative Hernandez? I just wanted to bring to everyone's attention, when you try to re-register, there might be some glitch in the system. So it requires you to do a questionnaire, and then it proceeds to doing an appointment. Okay.
 But if you've done it before, at times it gives you a glitch and doesn't let you move forward. And it happened to me multiple times, so I was forced to call. And then the other thing is if you don't have insurance, you have to call to make an appointment. Can that be eliminated, or why do we have to call if you don't have insurance? And this is all through the El PasoStrong.org website.
 As they're getting up there to answer the second question on the first question, anytime you have any issues like that, Mr. Nundis, if you don't mind reaching out to me directly or if we can get you in touch with Araceli, that way we can work through that. Yeah, no, I mean, I know I have that privilege, but for the most part, the public doesn't. But that way, if we make that correction, we can answer those questions and maybe fix, if you're having that glitch, fix the glitch for others as well. Yeah. Okay.
 So it can get frustrating. And like, usually this is happening on the weekend or early in the morning, late at night, I'm making appointments. So I don't think about calling y'all. But it's happened multiple times. So but it does say only fill out your questionnaire once. Right. But it doesn't let you like, is there an option just to go directly to make an appointment? It doesn't let you.
 Certainly, let me get back with staff. There's a specific group of staff that are working on the that portion of it. So we can certainly look at that in particular and see what the glitches in that respect. And certainly we're 24 seven. And so we are looking at all of the details in every respect. So certainly, you don't necessarily if you don't need to necessarily reach out to the city manager, but certainly one of us, and we'll look into it.
 Right. Why do we have to call in order to make an appointment if you don't have insurance? I don't know. It does. Click no insurance, and then it'll say, and it always gives me that error when I'm doing it for constituents. I'll have staff follow up on that one, representative. There's several things. And we'll have them look into that. Yeah, we'll look into it. And just a quick question. I did get, I got several questions from constituents at my last community meeting. I wasn't sure how to respond. The...
 When we put our insurance information, is there any, is the city able to recoup any administrative costs from insurance at no cost to the insurer, but do we receive any benefit by collecting insurance information?
 If I could speak to that one. The benefit of collecting insurance information is our partner that we have that's assisting us with all of our mega sites. So while we are not asking for any insurance, they are actually billing insurance companies for testing, as well as those who are uninsured, the federal government reimburses them for handling that. The city of El Paso has stayed out of it just to streamline it, but for those mega sites, the reason why they're asking for that information is just for that reason right there.
 And Mario, doesn't that help us because they then serve as a force multiplier for us?
 That's exactly it. If it was just us and we were just our workforce, when I talk about them having 20% of their workforce out, that's just another 100 people that they have on staff that helps us. So it's that force multiplier. So by them being able to bill the insurance company or bill the federal government to get reimbursed for their services provided at no cost to us, that allows us to offer more for our community and to continue service. When you're saying service provider, you're referring to not the staff at the
 LTS. He's referring to LTS. That's the staff at the mega sites.
 Oh, okay, so they're a private vendor? Because otherwise we would have to pay them. So when I say they're a force multiplier, they're a force multiplier in a couple of ways. One, obviously more personnel, more testing, or more vaccine administration, but then we don't have to pay for it because they're able to get that reimbursement somehow, whether it's through the federal government, like you pointed out, or through the insurance carrier, so that the person doesn't pay. But that's a separate vendor at those mega sites? Yes, ma'am. Okay, because I heard, you know, because in our clinics, it's in our employees, correct?
 That is absolutely correct. We do have a mix. We do help out. We do partner with them, so they are partnered. We do offer supervisory experience. We assist them with the pharmacy aspect of it. We do have staff going back and forth at all the sites, but it's mostly a LTS function providing that service to our community. All right. Thank you for that. I had no clue, but thank you. No other questions.
 Thank you. And with that, Ms. Prine? Mayor, if there's not any other questions, we do need you all to act on 21, 22, and 23, please. Motion to approve. Okay. We don't. So we'll go ahead and take those. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Sir, so you wanted to move to items 21, 22, and 23. Did you want to take those together? Please. Okay. Is there a motion to approve 21? Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar, and this is to approve the emergency ordinances on items 21, 22, and 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? Yes. Thank you. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Mayor, do you consent? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. In the voting session, we will now move to the next item.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. We now go to item number 19 which is an operational focus update on the budget. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. IT if you'll bring up the presentation. Thank you. So today we're going to be discussing during this budget update
 is really how we continue to focus on our priorities and our needs. And here you can see listed as what we've discussed previously, that we continue to see financial transformation. We're seeing how a high-performing government is able to deliver the services that our community is expecting under financial constraints.
 That's a limited revenue source growth of both our property tax and our retail sales tax. We've seen investments in our seniors and our disabled property owners by improving or increasing our tax exemptions. We're continuing to complete the quality of life bond projects and by ensuring that we're building in those annual operation and maintenance costs into our annual budget.
 We're looking at public safety investments by increasing both the staffing for public police department, looking at our collective bargaining agreements and the requirements that we have to invest in our officers and our firefighters, as well as the funds needed for fleet and capital replacements.
 We continue to focus on our critical infrastructure that has been supported by this council. By identifying funding for street resurfacing projects, as well as ensuring that we invest in our workforce through compensation increases, our healthcare and wellness and training opportunities that we provide our employees here at the City of El Paso. Next slide.
 Here you can see the historical property tax rate. And so while the property tax rate has increased, you can see over the past three years that we have been flat. Next slide.
 This is important because here you'll see the comparison between our general fund budget and our tax rate comparisons. So we have seen an increase of approximately $116.7 million since FY 2015. And so to the budget, this would be a 32 cent increase, but instead we've only seen a 21 cent increase to the tax rate, including our debt portion. And this being with the largest tax
 driver of public safety with an increase of approximately $72.9 million, which is equivalent to 20 cents on the tax rate. And so it's important to pause on this slide so you really understand the impact. So we've been able to absorb the additional costs through our retail sales growth as well as efficiencies that we've identified through Lean Six Sigma processes and other efficiency and cross-functional teams that we have here at the City.
 And so we've been able to truly minimize the impact on the tax rate while continuing to invest in our priorities, which you'll see later in the slides. Next slide. Here again, we're looking at that general fund budget comparison. Where were we at in 2015 and where are we today? So you'll see that investment in public safety of the $72.9 million dollars.
 The quality of life increases that we've seen for the completion of the new facilities and new operation and maintenance requirements for our quality of life departments, as well as the increase we've seen in infrastructure, which is the funding for the residential street resurfacing. Next slide.
 And this really magnifies this. So this shows where the dollars have been increasing, where we see those dollars, and what percentage of the increase has been since FY 2015. So 62% of our investment in public safety.
 This aligns with our chime in priorities that we've seen from our community. It aligns with the community survey that we saw as part of the strategic planning session in early December of last year. It's public safety, our calling to life and our streets. And you'll see the resources and investment that we've made as a community and as we've made as part of the City of El Paso in our community are reflecting here in these areas. Next slide.
 So we continue to expand our investment in public safety. So first, of course, I mentioned staffing. It includes the police and fire budgets increase, but it also, as part of it, includes the police staffing plan of adding the net 30 and the focus and commitment that we have in ensuring that we have the number of officers that our community needs to maintain their level of safety.
 Also, you'll see the additional investments that we have made include the crisis intervention team and additional 911 communicators.
 Our fleet capital replacement plan this year as part of the FY 2022 budget includes $7.8 million for fleet and capital replacement. By including this PAYCO funding, we're minimizing the use of debt and ensuring that it becomes part of the operational budget for our ongoing needs for capital replacement.
 And then finally, of course, in 2019, the public safety bonds. So we have $167.3 million already issued for the bonds of the total project of $413.1 million. This significant investment in our community is
 important to us and as important as an investment overall for our public safety and to ensure that we maintain and include the operational requirements as the new facilities come online.
 Here in these slides, these following slides, we discussed these early December. So they're a bit of a recap, but I think they're important that we cover them and remind that we do have academies that are going to be graduating from the police academies. This was referring to our police academy graduates.
 where we saw the dip in FY 2021. And then we're going back to currently we have 66 cadets in the academies that we're looking to graduate as part of this year. Next slide.
 And here you'll see those future police academies, how we need to structure future academies, what we need to do in order to really meet the staffing needs and meet the goals and objectives of the Net 30 that we've set for ourselves. So here you'll see the estimated academies. I'm looking at approximately three academies each fiscal year.
 and looking at the total net increase. And there's a net increase because we are reducing out the normal attrition that we see. And the attrition levels are due to retirements, terminations, or people just leaving the department for various reasons.
 Each of these net increases are really going to effectively increase our staffing by about approximately 55 officers. The first three years is what we're looking at. And then, of course, it drops down. So we've got $33.5 million for an estimated cost. Next slide.
 This shows the result, as we discussed, of that investment in our cadets, in our academies, and in our police departments. And so here you'll see what it does to the staffing overall in order for us to continue to invest in our El Paso Police Department. Next slide.
 Here shows the investment that we have in our streets department with the PAYGO funding since FY 2016 and what investment we're able to provide in FY 2022 of approximately $22.5 million in order for us to truly catch up with our residential resurfacing and our continued arterial resurfacing, as well as the introduction of our new initiative for Vision Zero.
 These of course were the quality of life bond projects that we've completed through December. Next slide. Next slide. And next slide. And this one includes the 165 projects that have been completed plus the additional 300 FTEs added for our new quality of life operations.
 And this shows the investment that we have made in our workforce since FY 2017 with the across-the-board increases in compensation for our civilians, as well as the lump sum increases we saw in FY 2021, and again, the lump sum investments that we were able to make in December for this fiscal year as well. Next slide. And that concludes the presentation today.
 Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez. Go ahead. Go ahead and represent yourself. Oh, sorry. Okay. Oh, I was just, I didn't know if the Mayor was still there or not. I was just texting him. He's not, but you have the floor. Thank you, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez. Speaking as the former Mayor Pro Tem and your benevolence as an alternate Mayor Pro Tem, very appreciative that you're here and you're allowing me to speak today. You're welcome. I like your turtleneck.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Even though I thank you. Thank you. I did have a question relating to relating to slide nine and the the staffing for the meetings there for the for our police department. If I can please bring the presentation up again and go to slide nine. So we currently have how many academies in here?
 Historically, we've had two academies a year. Actually, the next slide will show on slide 10, will show you the number of graduates that we've had each year. Show the number of graduates that we've had each year. But we are looking at,
 on how we can really achieve that net 30 staffing, as well as navigate COVID and also the challenges they're seeing in recruitment. To me, I really wanna challenge staff. I understand we're increasing to an additional, to additional staff.
 but those numbers that we're looking at would get us to where we were at FY 2019 and 2020. And I really think because of the kind of language that we're hearing from our leadership, that the public is hearing about from our leadership in the police department and others, that that isn't enough to go and just try to get to 98 or 105 everywhere. We need to go above and beyond that to keep our community safe. What we're being told by our leadership is,
 that we don't have enough officers to keep our mothers and our families safe, we really need to be going and thinking more aggressively about it. So I understand that we're looking at, I understand that there's attrition in each and every academy that we have, whether or not we have three academies or four academies. If you start off with 50 people, you're gonna get maybe 30 at the end of the trading academy. I think I understand that, recognize that. My question is, what can we do so that we have more than a net 35 increase each year?
 and look at something similar because our community deserves it. The number one thing that we can do is to make sure that our families are safe in El Paso. And when we hear that our officers and our police department don't have the tools and don't have the personnel to keep our community safe and the public's being told that, we really need to be more aggressive in looking at our staffing moving forward. Mayor Pro Tem,
 We have put a, okay, first we hear you, okay? But secondly, the council needs to kind of take a step back and kind of see what y'all have done. We put a plan in place that the council approved to add the 300 officers. And so we've been working that plan for the last six to seven years.
 COVID did impact that. As I said earlier, it's impacted a lot of operational departments. It's impacted us financially. It's impacted us, obviously, from a public health standpoint. And so the council has already put a very aggressive plan in place, number one. Number two, y'all put a 2019 package, public safety package, in front of the public that they approved, that we're busy working on.
 You just saw a slide that said we put $72 million towards public safety of the 116 million that we've gone up that we hear a lot from a few people about with regard to how the dollars have increased. This is all a result of the fact that the police department, fire department, the streets, and several quality of life buildings, which is parks, libraries, and museums, were neglected for decades.
 And so, yes, even though we've spent that much money over the last six to seven years, and the council has been very aggressive with their actions, we're still not where we need to be. And so earlier when you heard us talk about the DIMS program, the reason why we reviewed that through an LSS methodology and legal was instrumental in that work because they're very involved with Lean Six Sigma training that we do and the work that we do there.
 That's why that was important in order to reshape how they do that so it's more efficient for our officers to keep them out on the streets more. That's the reason the ballpark example I gave in reallocating resources there, you know, standing up new divisions like the traffic division, you know, all the fatalities we have here, that didn't exist seven years ago. So we had to stand that back up. The fact that we put the code department to report to the police department to serve as a force multiplier.
 And then we painted those vehicles so that they could have more of a presence and so that people feel more of a presence in the public safety standpoint. And the fact that we've also instituted volunteers in policing program that the council approved in order, again, to have more of a presence and to involve the community more.
 So we not only have listened to the council, and it shows by the dollars we've set aside and the commitment that we've made, council's made these tough calls, and again, it's just simply not enough because of those decades of neglect for all that time. We have two officers,
 uh retired officers that are on the council now that can speak about it probably a lot better than i can with respect to the neglect that took place for so many years and that we're working to correct at this particular time and we're still talking about body cameras that we don't have that that we've had a champion on the council push for that and and you know so there's a lot more work to do we understand that and and i certainly hear you and what you're saying i just wanted to just kind of take a step back
 and remind y'all of all the good things that y'all have done to address these issues. But because of that neglect, that's how long it takes to address decades of neglect.
 I understand what you're saying. But when the public is being communicated from our own leadership that we don't have enough officers to keep our community safe, then we need to be more aggressive in what we can do to bring in more academies and train our officers up. And so I just, again, would like to challenge with this upcoming budget season to see what we can do so that we're not at a net 35 increase, but at a higher increase moving forward year after year.
 Thank you, Alternate Mayor Kote. Thank you for that, Representative Schwarzbein. And there's no one else on the queue here, so Ms. Pine? Yes, sir. We now move to item number 30, which is on page...
 11, item 30 is discussion and action on the timeline for the preservation of approximately 1,200 acres of city-owned land located in northeast El Paso adjacent to the future police department and a fire training facility, including identified funding sources and a timeline for the establishment of a conservation easement on the property. Let me go ahead and share my screen. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Karina Bresvala with Economic and International Development. Can everyone hear me okay and see my presentation?
 Yes. Awesome. Thank you. So item 30 is the requested update on the acquisition and preservation of the Northeast property. It's about 1200 acres west of MLK. Here's a quick outline of what I'll be going over today. So just some background on previous action, what we've done since the last time we came before council, and then our pending issues and staff recommendation.
 As a reminder for everyone, this is the property in question. The larger 1,500-acre area is outlined in red. The grayed-out area is the site that was transferred to the city and will contain the new fire and police academy.
 So that was 106 acres that was transferred into the city inventory on July 7th, 2021, under a memorandum of understanding with El Paso Water. The MOU included a payment to El Paso Water because the land was slated for a public facility under our joint resolution, the city paid 25% of the appraised cost, which turned out to be approximately $1.3 million, and that payment was covered by the 2019 public safety bond.
 The MOU also included a clause stating that El Paso Water would be responsible for preserving the remaining 1,200 acres of land as open space within 180 days. And the deadline for that was yesterday, January 23rd. In addition to that MOU, on November 23rd of last year, City Council took action to direct staff to look at options to place a conservation easement on the property.
 City staff did communicate that direction to El Paso Water and we continue to work with the utility to accomplish that goal. As part of that was this presentation to return with an update in 60 days.
 So here is what we have done in the meantime. So we again communicated council direction to El Paso Water staff. EP Water has returned with some concerns regarding the mineral rights. They are proposing an alternate preservation mechanism. So use of the stormwater and open space dual purpose funds to purchase the property at 100% the value of the land. And
 That was listed as a pending open space acquisition on their last update to council. They are also proposing to establish a conservation covenant and rezone the property to natural open space. We were informed yesterday via email that El Paso Water did file that conservation covenant on December 22nd, 2021. So step two has been completed. We would still be working with them on these additional mechanisms.
 At this point, staff's recommendation is to continue to work with El Paso Water on the placement of a conservation easement, in accordance with, I think, the intent of the MOU. So in regards to the mineral rights issue, both the NAPLAN and the Lost Dog conservation easements had third parties with mineral rights. We can write the agreement such that it excludes or makes the easement subject to those outside agreements.
 mineral rights and it's something we've worked through before. And then just the existing covenant that's in place right now wouldn't preclude the placement of a conservation easement. They're not mutually exclusive mechanisms. So we can still add the easement, even though that covenant is existing.
 And then we'll just note that if El Paso Water does opt to compensate their system using the dual purpose fund, they would need to demonstrate, number one, that the system requires compensation, two, that the use of the fund for this purpose complies with Ordinance 16668, and they would need to demonstrate the impact to the fund. And that's roughly a $15 million impact for the full 1,200 acres.
 The other option would be for City Council to request the transfer of the property into the City's inventory under that joint resolution. Open space is considered a public facility, so we would do it the same way we did for the Fire and PD Academy at 25% the appraised value of the property. The other option under the joint resolution is the original cost of the property plus an annual CPI adjustment from the date of purchase.
 The funding source in this case would be the remaining 3.1 million reserved for open space. That's the quality of life bond funds that would allow for the transfer of all or a portion of the property depending on final appraised value. And this is also the recommendation made by the Open Space Advisory Board on December 2nd, 2020. They recommended the usage of the QOL funds to purchase this land. And really quickly,
 So this would be a timeline for the placement of a conservation easement. So about six to nine months, we would start off with a baseline report for the previous conservation easements. This was contracted out to Frontera Land Alliance. We would need to look at options for that. But Frontera in those cases did an assessment, full assessment of the property. So looking at
 ecological, biological assets, anything that needs archaeological monitoring. And then they also develop a land management plan for how the land will be preserved and managed going forward. And at that point they'd also note any kind of existing improvements that we might need to exclude or work around. So trails would need to be added in, but if there's anything like a maintenance road or access to like a radio tower or water tower, we would want to remove that from the easement.
 And then staff would work with the city attorney's office to draft the conservation easement agreement. So we'd prepare all those exhibits, the survey, any land exclusion, and then work through surface rate waivers. If we want to ask the GLO to waive their rights, that would be part of the process, or we would just exclude them from the agreement. And then final action, city council would see an ordinance come before them, and you all would authorize the city manager to sign the conservation easement agreement.
 In the event that we did transfer the property, there would be a couple weeks added onto the forefront of this timeline just to confirm the appraisal, transfer the property, and get all of that finalized. This concludes my presentation, and we'll be happy to take any questions. Representative Molinar? Thank you, Mayor. If possible, can we go ahead and take public comment first? Sure. Ms. Pine? Yes, sir. We do have three members of the public that signed up to speak this afternoon. The first person is Dr. Rick Bonnard.
 He will be followed by Dr. Sharon Miles-Bonart and Mr. Joe Garibayi. You can go first, Ms. Bonart. Dr. Bonart, you can go first. Yes, Ms. Sharon Bonart.
 Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. You have three minutes, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. And good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm Sharon Miles Bonnard, a member of the Open Space Advisory Board. And I'm taking this off. Today, I'm here only as an individual citizen, I do not speak for OSAP. Promises were made to transfer 1200 acres of open space to the city's inventory. These promises have yet to be kept.
 Originally, this Northeast agreement was for $5 to $6 million to purchase approximately 600 acres west of the MLK with an additional 800 acres to be donated by the water utility. Funds from both the public safety bond and the quality of life bond were to be used. On slide seven of staff's presentation, references made to using the dual purpose 10% stormwater funds.
 Land acquisitions using stormwater funds must have the dual purpose of stormwater management and preservation of open space. The road from MLK to the Roundhouse is the only area where there are stormwater management issues, not the entire parcel. There is some concern about the need to pay full appraisal value for the land. There is no need to pay full
 appraised value. In this deal there does not have, this deal does not have a third party involvement and the land was declared inexpedient prior to the signing of the 2018 ordinance 018870 with those restrictions.
 The joint resolution allows the same two payment options used for purchasing the Police and Fire Department Academy land to be applied to the purchase of open space parcel. The El Paso Water Utility is the manager for land owned by the people of El Paso, and the City Council represents the people of El Paso.
 The next speaker will present further information and another funding option. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Bonnard. Thank you. The next speaker is Dr. Rick Bonnard. Good afternoon, sir. ITU Dr. Bonnard has submitted a presentation for display at this time. Yes, and thank you for allowing me to speak today. And so I guess some of the concerns that I have are just it seems like this is just dragging on, unnecessarily so.
 And I think that one of the things that people like to see is that their government functions well and efficiently and moves through simple processes simply. So if you'll put on the first slide.
 I think that one of the things that strikes me as being very interesting is how lucky you were to pick an area to put the police and fire department, which was the only parcel in the 1,300, 1,400 acres that didn't have any mineral rights. But really, as the prior staff presented, mineral rights are not much of an issue, and they can be avoided with a letter of remoteness like we did at Lost Dog.
 and or just excluding them from the conservation easement. So the next slide please.
 The same thing that the prior speaker stated was, you know, it's inappropriate use of the 10% stormwater money just to apply it willy-nilly to any parcels. The parcels have to comply with an ordinance that was prior approval by city council stating there needs to be a dual purpose. All of that parcel does not have a dual purpose. Also you should be very concerned is what you're calling fair market value at this point in time.
 If you're claiming that all this land is encumbered by mineral rights, or that all this land is damaged by stormwater issues, how can the fair market value be what you've stated before, especially now that there's a conservation covenant which eliminates all development rights? It would seem that the land that has only liabilities and no development rights has a pretty limited value, and I would hate to see us go down that rabbit hole. So the next slide, please.
 Also, you know, there was a bond covenant that's been added recently, which I think is really detrimental to what you're trying to do. Remember, parks are open space, and this covenant could be used to preclude you from using your 25% option to get green parks. I don't think that's what you want to do. I think it was vindictive and placed as a result of the lost dog issue.
 You're also thinking retroactively about applying this to land that's already been declared an expedient, and that's also not appropriate. And the final slide, please. Also I would like to mention that there's always prior law on this, the DM444, the Attorney General opinion, which states that this property is your property and you have options to use it as you like.
 And so this is where you could apply stormwater money. That's a 100-acre strip along the road which has had stormwater damage that was repaired at great expense between the Borderland Mountain Bike Association, JOBE, and the water utility. So this is where you can use those funds to make this whole. Thank you, Dr. Bonar. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Dr. Bonar. The final speaker is Mr. Joel Garibayi.
 Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I am Joe Garibay. I am the chair of the Open Space Advisory Board. What I'd like to say is we were given a presentation where they were talking about taking this land
 And there was never a $15 million price tag to it. And so when I look at the presentations and I see some of the things that have changed since then, I'm a bit concerned. The Open Space Advisory Board really would like this parcel to be part of open space. It is a great parcel. It is well used by the community.
 But we feel that the changes may be, some of these changes may be upping the price on this land and don't particularly like to see that change after we were given a presentation told how it would go down and now we see these changes going through. So I would like to say hey let's keep the deal that was initially put before the Open Space Advisory Board and that we voted and recommended to you all. I understand some things can change during time.
 It seems odd to me that we had a deal, we said we would do something, and now things are changing a little bit. The other thing I'd like to mention is a conservation easement is important to us. We know there are other ways to protect the land, but we would like to see a conservation easement put on this. We don't want that to go away. It's the way we did Lostog, it's the way we did the NAPLAN. We believe that is the best way to ensure that this land is protected.
 Having said that, Dr. Bonnard mentioned that there's a strip of road that goes up. That strip of road is heavily used. It's used any time there's events there. For those that don't know it, there was an event out there in November. We had the 12 hours of El Paso. Probably had 300 to 400 people out there using this land, and there were vehicles that are driven up. We need to make sure when this is protected,
 that we don't obstruct that. This is a lot that happens here.
 And next week, we're having the Puzzler Mountain Bike Race. Again, we're expecting 300 to 400 vehicles to be up there camping out using this land. It is heavily used by the mountain bike community, actually most outdoor recreationalists. So I ask that you consider that when we go through this and to make sure that we keep the original agreement that was put forward and that we get a conservation easement. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you mayor that concludes public comment on this item thank you we'll go back to uh rep simone are followed by representative schwarzbein and representative vanilla
 Thank you mayor at this time. I'd like to amend the item please to Direct city staff to work with El Paso water to add an additional layer of protection to preserve the roundhouse trail land is natural open space in Perpetuity and resolve any outstanding claims to severed subsurface citrus on the land is recommended by utility staff There's no
 we'll go to mayor procter can i ask can i ask sure go ahead absolutely representative molinar are you referring to item 30 are you referring to the item that um you myself represented short time placed a few weeks ago uh can you give me a date on that more or less i don't know what the date but i'm you're talking about 30. yes so can you say it again pardon me can you repeat the motion sure
 direct city staff to work with El Paso water to add an additional layer of protection to preserve the roundhouse trail land as natural open space and perpetuity and resolve any outstanding claims to severed subservice interest on the land as recommended by utility staff I will say this right now. I Have questions for the water utility on that recommendation. I
 I would want to, at this point, add some language to that, but I do want to ask them some questions. So I don't know if you're willing to wait until the discussion happens to make the motion one more time. Sure. They're here, Ms. Anello. They're here. Mr. Ballou is here and Mr. Leon. Thank you. Mayor Potem? Thank you.
 Thanks. Yeah, and I had some questions against what Representative Volinar is suggesting because I'm not sure exactly what's defined as the Roundhouse Trail land or area. I know that we have the Roundhouse Trailhead and the road that leads up to it. So I think it's important to focus on the 1,200 acres right now more than anything else. And I do have a number of questions. I know that
 I'm curious what was brought to OSAP that was approved by OSAP? And I don't know if we have members from staff that can answer it or from OSAP, because it seems that there's a pretty big disconnect between what was,
 the understanding and brought up with this joint resolution and what was brought up to OSAP and then how the water utility is now sort of reinterpreting that whole process. So I'm curious, first to start as a baseline, what was it that was brought up to OSAP in the past?
 Yeah, absolutely. So Karina Bresgala again for the record. One I used to be the secretary for the Open Space Advisory Board so I'm familiar with this issue going way back before 2020 and then I did both presentations at OSAB. So the original proposition was looking at the quality of life open space acquisition list and that was that motion that I mentioned in my presentation.
 So that was the very, very first conversation OSEP had about this property was looking at combining with the public safety bond to be able to acquire the full area, the 1,500 acres. So we used public safety bonds for that academy facility and then used the remaining open space funds to preserve as much as we could of the other 1,200 acres.
 In December, I went back to the Open Space Advisory Board and provided them a slightly different version of this presentation. In the meantime, we received additional information from El Paso Water, including the 15 million appraisal estimate and some information on that conservation covenant and the other measures that they've taken to preserve the property in accordance with the MOU. So that is what has changed, is that we've gotten an estimate from,
 I'll pass a water and I mean, I'll let John Blue, um, or AP Water Staff speak to the use of the 10% funds. What exactly was, so what was brought in terms of numbers to staff first? Um, first, 1200. It would be the parcel. Yeah, there was no, uh,
 value assigned to that at the time, right? It was prior to us looking at the acquisition. It was a recommendation to City Council to proceed with the acquisition. So it would have been prior to the appraisal for the property that we used for the fire and PD facility as well. So nothing was communicated. I would say that would be like 25% of the appraised value.
 No numbers given, but OSEP was also told that if we were going to use the, if we're going to transfer it, it would be at 25% because again, open space does qualify as a public facility. So it was communicated to the understanding to OSEP that the 1,200 acres would cost 25% of the appraised value because it was for a public use.
 Yes. If transferred to the city at 25%, the full cost would be recovered by the water utility system if they use the 10% fund. So why has the city not gone through the process of starting to transfer it? I don't believe there's council direction to acquire. Okay. Yeah. So is Mr. Ballou here? Yes, sir. John Ballou with El Paso Water. Okay.
 So I'm curious about this process. Do you have an issue with the city transferring this property to its inventory? No. So let me explain the discrepancies that were pointed out. Whenever we start down the road on something, there's preliminary discussions. And in those preliminary discussions, we were operating without an appraised value. But whenever we conduct a real estate transaction, there's always an appraisal that's done.
 So preliminary discussions were taken and myself and others had some assumptions based on the value of land. But when we got the appraisal, that's what it was, the $15 million. So we didn't necessarily change anything. Our offer is still the same. If you want to transfer the property, you can transfer it. Now let me point out one little discrepancy here. When we...
 The memorandum of understanding was passed. The idea was that open space and municipal facilities, land would be transferred from the water utility to the city for 25% of the appraised value. And so it does specifically mention open space.
 But there's also a bond covenant, and the bond covenant prescribes how real estate for open space is done when the open space is requested by a third party.
 that this water system would be compensated at full market value. And so that's where we're back at the $15 million. When we started down that road, I certainly didn't anticipate that the value of that property would be $15 million. Is there a third party in this case? Yes, I think that the open space community is the third party. But the city of El Paso is making the request, right? The city of El Paso...
 It dropped the request to us. The original idea was that the whole Parcel would be transferred but the actual request came through for the police and fire headquarters, that's
 And we acted upon that request. But there's no third party. It's the city. I mean, the city is the one that's making the request to have this land preserved as open space. For the police and fire. The problem is that there's been a lot of information that's been presented publicly where members of the community are asking, requesting that the city do the transaction that we've talked about.
 But that's not a third. I mean, the residents of El Paso, the citizens of El Paso is the city of El Paso. We represent them and we're making the request on, well, we're making the request on behalf of the city. I don't know where there's a, how that could be interpreted as a third party here in any way. So it seems to me that while the bond covenant states what it does, the 25% appraised value certainly,
 certainly qualifies for this process and project, and it was communicated already to the public. So my other question is, you said, made mention that a conservation covenant is currently going through the process? No, it's in place. So how does a conservation covenant preserve the land in perpetuity?
 Okay, so the conservation covenant is a deed restriction essentially that runs with the land, that prevents development. So the difference between a conservation covenant and a conservation easement is this. And I know the open space community wants something that is permanent. And in no cases are the, what we're talking about here, is anything permanent.
 In the case of a conservation covenant, some future public service board, despite the fact that the public service board directed me and gave me authorization to preserve the property, some future public service board could go back and want to undo that. But a conservation easement is similar in that some future city council could go back and request the same thing.
 Now, the issue of the mineral rights, and this was brought up by some of the public commenters, that the mineral rights issue comes up in the conservation easement. And I'd like to read something to you from the rules that describe how conservation- Really quick, was the conservation covenant in place before the current appraisal that you all had put in?
 The appraisal was first. You put in the covenant that affected appraisal value too, correct? Yeah, the appraisal was first. And the conservation covenant, I think, went into effect Friday perhaps or Monday. But let me read this about the conservation easement. This is from the rules that talk about how conservation easements are set up.
 the probability of surface mining occurring on such property is so remote as to be negligible that's the rules that you can use a conservation easement now in this case immediately next door to the property in question there is sand and gravel mining that takes place and so I don't think that the risk here
 So that risk has to be managed. And so we're not opposed to the idea of the conservation easement, but this idea of excluding somehow the mineral rights from the conservation easement is just not going to hold muster
 because the rules for setting up a conservation easement specifically say that you can't be used unless there's negligible chance of mineral rights being utilized. And in this case, when you have a coring operation that's right next door, this is different from lost dog where the coring is remote from the property in question. I don't know.
 I believe there's a quarry that's less than a half mile away from Lostog with the Vispa Canyon. I'm mispronouncing that. Vispa Canyon, the jug quarry that's out there in the northwest of the city, right? Yes. But you have a major highway and then you have half a mile of land. That's correct. But immediately next door to this property, you have sand and gravel that is being produced. And the same minerals that occur there, by communication from the...
 Holder of that lease are right here on this property that's in question And I'm not saying that it can't be dealt with but it has to be dealt with you can't just Exclude it and just say we're not going to consider that because what we're talking about here is preserving the land so in preserving the land means I think from the standpoint of the gentleman from the Osab and the mountain bike community is you don't want development on there, but you certainly don't want sand and gravel mining on it and
 So in order to go ahead and protect it, we need to address the risk of mining. Which a conservation covenant doesn't do. Mayor Pro Tem, you have ten minutes if you want to wrap up, and then we'll come right back to you after a couple of reps get an opportunity. And the conservation easement doesn't even allow you to do it. But just, Mayor, it was really good. The conservation covenant wouldn't restrict the mineral rights either, right? No. Okay. So we have to do something about the mineral rights.
 So and then again just so I'm clear you all made a market based appraisal and then place a conservation covenants on the land after that just went into place yesterday.
 Yes, the exact date here. Mayor Pro Tem we'll come back to you. We'll let's allow Representative Ranallo. If you're going to go down an appraisal, we want to do it after, to find the value after conservation governance was placed on without council's awareness. Thank you. We'll come right back to you. Representative Ranallo. Thank you.
 Thank you, John, for being here. It's good to see you. Happy New Year. I have some questions for you, though, to follow up on your conversation with Representative Schwartzbein. And I'm going to be totally honest. I feel like there's something happening in this conversation that I don't understand.
 There's obviously a conversation about mineral rights and conservation easement, and then there was a conversation about appraisal. And I'm equally as interested in the comment you made about transfer to a third party in the bond covenant, because I absolutely don't understand who the third party is.
 I'm with Representative Schwartzbein on there. I think that because something was suggested by our Open Space Advisory Committee and then we needed their approval to move forward, they are a part of the city. They are a city committee. I don't understand what this conversation about the third party is, and I don't really think that it's fair to say that there's bond restrictions on the transfer of land on a third party because I don't think that there is one. Okay, so the—
 The whole issue of the third party, it doesn't really impact whether the land can be preserved or not. What it has to do with is the value of it, the 25% versus full market value. Yeah, and I'm saying there's nothing. I don't know who this third party is because this council is the one that voted to approve this plan. Was there a third party that approved it previous to us? Did someone else get in the land? I think I'm really missing...
 I don't also understand why there is a tension over this land. I thought that there has been an agreement with the water utility and the city. You're up here saying that you guys have been negotiating and there's an appraisal issue and that's fine. But there seems to be some hesitation and I don't know what it is. So let me try to address the hesitation. Yeah, please. So the public service board enthusiastically agreed.
 wanted to preserve this this land and gave me direction to preserve it now when when that took place the idea although it wasn't specifically conveyed in there the idea was that that the Public Service Board would direct me to take action and then we would transfer money from the 10% now at that point in time we don't have the value we're just talking about processes right
 So there's no doubt that the public service board wants the land preserved I want it preserved. So the only question is about how to do it and Then the valley and so when when the original request for the police and fire headquarters It was going to be the entire property and it was not the public service board that Separated the two it was at the request of the city. But anyway, so we transferred the the
 300 acres for the police and fire and then so we thought we were gonna go ahead and preserve The remainder of it and what that would mean to us is that we would do the conservation covenant Which is very similar in its level of protection and then we would be compensated over a period of time over many years from the 10% fund and
 from that 10% fund to the water and wastewater fund to compensate the water and wastewater customers' investment in that land. So that was all fine. That was the plan, right? And so now the issue of the conservation easement has come up. And again, we're not opposed to doing the conservation easement. But when you do a conservation easement, you specifically have to deal with this mineral rights question.
 I have quite a few follow-up questions, but I'm going to put a pause on that and ask the city manager a question, the city attorney, and then come back to that. Mrs. Neiman, this council took action five months ago? What was the action that the council took? The council moved to approve the MOU between the city and the PSB. And the MOU was for the entire property, not the 300 acres, correct? Correct. When did that change, who changed it, and why was it changed after council action?
 I wouldn't be able to answer that question. Who's going to answer that question? If I can, Elizabeth Triggs with Economic and International Development. So in July, Council approved the MOU which included the clause Karina referred to where the water utility agreed to preserve the remaining 1200 acres of land. The MOU wasn't specific as to how that preservation would occur because we were still having discussions about the easement. However, separate and aside,
 Council also made a motion requesting city staff work with EP Water to preserve the land via conservation easement. So you have two motions that occurred on July. The first approved the MOU, the second directed staff to work with EP Water to put in conservation easement over the property. Okay, so before I comment, clarification. We took action on 1,200 acres of land, and then the second action was to work on a conservation easement with the water utilities.
 So thank you for that clarification, John, because now I'm understanding. And my biggest concern now, before I even get into questions about mineral rights, is why was –
 This MOU this land transfer whatever changed to just the 300 acres for the police and fire Academy when the council approved the 1200 because it seems to me like a lot of this Would be avoided and the council would able to be able to make the determination to what was promised to this council and the open space advisory committee about a conservation easement if we had taken the 1200 acres of land that we voted on and
 This council, there was not an update to this council that that land went from 1,200 to 300 acres. And again, because the council, and I don't know, John, step in if this was at the request of the water utility and because of what the PSB voted on or if this was the city initiated. Okay.
 The Public Service Board's action pertains to the whole property, but we were authorized to transfer the 300 acres to the city for police fire, which is what the request was.
 that we received from staff in the direction to preserve the remaining parcel of it. So it was the PSB decision? So the idea was not to transfer the $1,200 to the city, but to preserve the $1,200. Okay, that makes sense. So now we have this issue of the 25% appraisal based on a third party. Okay, so now what...
 The whole thing about the 25% or the full value applies to the fact that if you want to take the whole 1,200 acres, which we're not opposed to do, to transfer the 1,200 acres into the city's inventory, and then the city can do whatever they want in terms of the preservation, that's where the dollar amount comes into play. If you just want the Public Service Board to preserve it,
 and we've already done the conservation covenant and we're willing to do the conservation easement provided that we can address the mineral rights. But let me introduce, if I can, even a further complication. One of the easiest ways to handle all this mineral rights issue and to preserve it fully is if we were to transfer, we collectively, transfer in some form or fashion this property to Texas Parks and Wildlife.
 whose ownership of the property would then preclude any mineral development on the property. So we've only talked about the state mineral rights, but there's other private entities that own mineral rights in the property. I want to not get back to the mineral rights. I still don't understand who the third party is and why the price of the land is changing. Okay, so I'm not...
 When we say the price of the land has changed, if the city staff had come to us and said, we want to purchase the entire 1,200 acres, that would have been accomplished. But that is not what happened. The actual request came for the 300 acres and to preserve the 1,200. Now, if you want to take the other 1,200, then the question is, well, who made that request? And if so, if...
 third party and I know that that's problematic it sounds strange when I even say it as to what that actually means but when individuals are asking for this land to be preserved as open space that are not coming from here that's the third party okay so I'm going to back up again because I thought you had said that it was the PSB
 that said that they wanted to preserve the open space, and so they made the decision to sell the 300 acres to the city. But you're saying the city only asked for 300 and asked you to preserve the remaining. Okay. So that's a question we need to take up with city staff. There was a preliminary discussion that involved the whole thing, but when it came down to it,
 the transaction that was the request that's a conversation we have with city staff in a second because i still don't understand how we got there but not yet not yet we asked for the whole thing like he said but he just said you didn't ask for the whole thing no he didn't he said that that was the conversation for the entire but then the transaction was for the 300 that's what he said okay okay that's what i thought the first time and then
 I still don't think that being a council member who took this vote, I can tell you I had no communication with the Open Space Advisors Committee about this. No one from them asked us to preserve this land. This was a conversation we had for a very long time about what we thought the right thing to do was. I know Representative Molinar, who is an open space aficionado. Is that the right word?
 was very concerned about this area. And I still would say that the Open Space Advisory Committee is not a third party. And so legally, I don't know who makes that determination, Mrs. Neiman. So Representative Anelo, the language that Mr. Ballou is referring to exists in the ordinance and covenants that council approves when you issue bonds for the utility. That ordinance was amended in 2018 as a result of the Lost Dog Trail Initiative.
 and states that when a third party requests property to be preserved for open space, then the utility is allowed to reimburse itself and you have to identify a source of funds. That was the original genesis of why that bond covenant came to exist. In my opinion, there is no third party in this instance. This is a city-initiated function.
 There is no third-party petition and there has been no like what happened in the locks lost our trail where there was a vote And the public said we want this to happen This has been entirely Originated from councils direction to staff as to what to do with that parcel. Okay in light of that discussion What could be done is that we could go back to the public service board in in the meeting and ask them to? Consider it because what they were asked to do Was should we transfer the?
 the land transfer and preserve okay if we want to transfer the entire 1200 acres the public service board needs to take action on that and then we can deal with this issue of the whether it was a third party whether it was this request from the city
 Yeah, I mean, I think there needs to be a lot of conversations that continue happen with all of us as a council and the water utility. I feel like there's a lot of grandstanding here and it's going really over my head between a lot of people. And I really don't mean that in a disrespectful way. But I just don't know how we got to this point.
 the conversation about the mineral rights to me is is we're not even there yet i think we really need to be figuring out what's happening with this land who is purchasing it for how much and then then go from there um representative molinar can you repeat your amended motion for me your 10 minutes are up so i want someone to take over for you and then we can always come back i just wanted to hear yeah that's what i'm saying absolutely go ahead and represent molinar
 direct city staff to work with El Paso water to add an additional layer protection to preserve the roundhouse trail land as natural open space in perpetuity and Resolve any outstanding claims to severed subsurface interest on the land is recommended by utility staff I
 And go ahead. Thank you. Go ahead Mayor Perkins. Mayor? Please do sir. Yeah sorry I think in terms of what Representative Molinar brings up I think that I think given given where we're at with this situation I think something would be more appropriate in terms of a council action at this time would be would be to make a motion to to transfer the land
 to transfer the land into the city's inventory and to base upon the value of the new appraisal after the conservation covenant. Because it seems that the 25% of appraised value doesn't make sense on land that has now received a conservation covenant. I'm curious if Ms. Triggs or city staff could talk about that, if we can request a new appraisal since there's been a conservation covenant placed on it. And I'm just curious...
 We have the, we just found out today or yesterday that a conservation covenant was on there. Mr. Ballou, how long have you all been discussing a conservation covenant on this? So the direction, the request from the city to the Public Service Board and the direction that the Public Service Board provided was to preserve. And so when we analyzed the different methods that could be used to preserve, and there was a deadline associated. If you remember, you gave us a deadline.
 of the mechanisms that could be used to preserve the land within the deadline that you provided was the conservation covenant and so we did the conservation covenant recorded at the courthouse so that's how we got to the conservation covenant the conservation easement could not have been done in that in that time frame and so what what we're not supposed to do as i mentioned is the conservation easement the conservation easement and the covenant are mutually
 synergistic in terms of the level of protection. So when you talk about now getting a new appraisal, you're essentially punishing the water utility for obeying your direction. We went ahead and preserved the land using the conservation covenant. No, no, no.
 Oh, sir. We have, first of all, it was very clear that the motion from council was for a conservation easement. Myself, Representative Manello, we both went and put out an op-ed in support of a conservation easement with a promise to this council. And we have representation from the city with the mayor on the PSB board that should be very clear about communicating what the direction from council was.
 So this idea that you're following the intent or the will of the council, it doesn't follow through. And so I'm really – I think there's a lot of frustration from the council that we're in this situation where it feels that the direction that this council took as a whole hasn't been followed or respected. And we talk a lot about respect.
 and that hasn't been respected right here and the public does have a right to be frustrated by this because there was something that was clearly explained to the public that a conservation easement was going to be put in place on these 1200 acres and so again i think that you know it's not about punishing that or other up until yesterday and really up until today i don't
 I don't think anybody was aware that a conservation covenant was being discussed at the PSB or that was voted on and placed by the PSB.
 And to say that that's what we asked for, when stated that a conservation covenants does not preserve the land in perpetuity, that a rezoning of NOS doesn't preserve it in perpetuity, I think it's not a very respectful thing to this body as a whole. And so again, I would like to make a motion that we go and work with the PSB to set in a new appraisal and to place this land in inventory of the city.
 I don't know if there's a second for that is that a motion yes sir I don't know if anybody else has a second for that mayor go ahead representative to do it to do another appraisal is I'm not I'm not sure I'd support another appraisal um I think the the appraise I mean the appraise appraisal value is what it is I mean can you
 Representative Nunes, can I just address that part of it? Sure. Is that we have a situation where an appraisal was done during some of the highest parts of the market right now. It was done before this council knew that there was a conservation covenant placed on the land. So it literally was at the highest peak of the value for this land, right? Whether or not, you know, the intent was to get 100% of that value or 25% of the value.
 So if we're talking about an appraisal of the land based upon conservation covenant being placed on it, it would be a more accurate representation of the value of that land moving forward. I can, you know, if you're more comfortable with a motion that transfers land,
 to the city inventory, which would cost 25% of value. And that's something we can discuss as well, but it just seems that we've done previous appraisals on this land. We have an idea of what the appraised value should be based upon the two previous appraisals for the 2,300 acres of land directly across MLK that can be used as a benchmark for what the value of this land should be. In fact, I do have a question to staff note, what the current appraisal that water utility did on this land is.
 So I can answer. We've been told that it's approximately 15 million. We've requested the appraisal but haven't yet received it. So verbally, we've been told approximately 15 million. So the only thing I want to, because Representative Schwartz, you kind of hijacked my time, but to be blunt.
 I don't feel comfortable with us having these conversations that y'all need to have continue to have and so I really would respect For members of council if we can't direct staff to go back and work with El Paso water utility And I and I do you know I don't want to make any directions further than they need to go back and deliberate because we are united we need to come to the public United and
 and we absolutely need to find resolve on this because I just don't like the direction the conversation is going. An appraisal, as you know, appraisers are, you know, with the state of Texas, they have their own duty and their own moral obligations, and so I certainly just don't want the public to perceive that we are not united in this situation. So, you know, I would just ask that you all have those discussions further. Was that a motion?
 Well, there's a motion there. I'll make a second to that one. There's not been a second on any motion. I will second that one. Yeah, but there's no second on any motion. I seconded that one. Now, I want to ask, Ms. Raleigh, you keep telling us that staff directed you to do something.
 what staff directed you because it's not what council voted on and we're saying staff directed you and i don't think psb took a vote on direction that staff gave the psb so i'm kind of asking wondering what i'm a little confused by by those statements okay if i use the word direction from staff i misspoke so let me let me first start off uh addressing representative hernandez i apologize for the fact that this looks like it's
 problematic. We agreed we could go through with the conservation easement. We're willing to do that. That forestalls the whole business about the 25% or the full market value or whatever. We just need time to work out the mineral interest because that's not something that you can just wave a hand and then do away with it.
 Now, to address the mayor's question, what the Public Service Board directed us to do was to preserve it. Now, at that point in time, there was no discussion in that Public Service Board meeting about conservation easement or covenant or anything. The word that was used was preservation. And so what- Can I ask you about that? Because the mayor serves on that board, and I don't know if, Ms. Triggs, if you're a part of this discussion. At any point that any representative from the city
 um convey to you what the intent was from the city council and that was my question because you said staff directed him and i want to know what staff directed who to do what so my my understanding of the of the timeline of what took place is that we were requested and i think that was a city council action to preserve
 Now, I don't remember the mayor mentioning in the course of the PSB meeting or anyone for that matter mentioning at that point in time conservation easement. Okay. No, and I think that's fair and I think that's just a breakdown of communication. And so clearly we as mayor, as a member of the PSB board and Mr. Gonzales, we really need to be clear with what our actions are.
 and take that back to the PSB board and to staff because this is how we get into these conversations. He said, she said, not only is it inappropriate, it's not professional, and this community deserves better communication. And then for members of this council, Mayor and Mr. Gonzalez,
 Conservation easements are incredibly sensitive and very important to this community. So if anything comes up related to conservation easements or any preservation of land, then please, in writing, provide a narrative to this council so that we understand what actions are taking place as it relates to preservation of land because
 I've heard this over and over again, and it's becoming a clear issue that we are not communicating effectively for our community. But it's all of us, Mr. Ballou. It's all of us who needs to take responsibility.
 And I appreciate that you're here to clarify but this isn't the forum to do it It's it's really needs to happen behind closed doors With with staff so that we can get our ducks in a row So my motion would be to you keep saying you need more time about mineral rights and so Do you delete the items you can come back when you're prepared or? because this is an item from from the city manager's office and
 If I may, if I may, Elizabeth Triggs with Economic Development. So I want to clarify a couple of things. The conversation has always been about the larger parcel of land. We moved quickly with the MOU for the 306-acre transfer for the Police and Fire Academy when we realized that El Paso water was not in agreement with the conservation easement due to concerns about mineral rights. Okay, so we moved quickly on the police and fire, understanding that we would have to continue the discussion of the conservation easement.
 Since that time, we've been very clear that that's Council's preference, and we'll continue to work with El Paso Water Utility to look at the concerns regarding mineral rights. I will say this, Lostog and NAP both had mineral rights on the properties, and we were able to work through those. We're hoping to do the same here. So our recommendation at this time was that you allow us the time to continue working.
 El Paso Water has met the conditions of the MOU by putting the conservation covenant on the property. So we just need the time to continue working through the issues regarding the mineral rights and placement of the conservation easement. Carina provided a timeline. It typically takes six to nine months to do the baseline report and then draft the agreements and bring those back to Council. So I don't think that we need necessarily more time or any kind of motion. We have Council's direction.
 which is to place the conservation easement on the property and so we just need to continue working with El Paso Water to do that. And I think that's the concern here and this is where we're getting lost in translation is that specifically the conservation easement or additional layers of protection. So that they all need to be explored all of those options need to be explored and come back to Council and so I
 The way the language is written, I think, is what the utility is taking issue with, and they wanna at least explore the option and bring it back to council. And in this language, Mrs. Triggs, will that be explored as well?
 Which motion are you referring to? So it says discussion action on the timeline of preservation of approximately 1,200 acres, city-owned land located in northeast El Paso, adjacent to the future police department and the fire training facility, including identified funding sources and a timeline for the establishment of a conservation easement on the property. Now, the motion that Mr. Molinat had mentioned was to look at an additional layer of protection. So my assumption is that that's a covenants.
 and any other waivers that are being sought, any issues through mineral rights, does that encompass everything, all the concerns from both Mr. Moulimnad and Mr. Ballou? Yes, it covers everything, yes. We'll look at the easement, we'll look at the covenants, and we'll explore any other options just as we have in the past with Lostog as well as NAP, and previous to that, the land east of Lostog.
 Okay, and so if this action is what you're wanting, if this motion is what you want the action on so that you all can continue to further explore and deliberate, then I'm fine with that. I don't want to take an action here today and then we come back and forth and have these conversations back and forth in public.
 whether or not you need to come back with another motion or we delete it or do you want to just Does staff just meet this action here from item 30?
 The language listed on item 30 is fine. The original motion which is what Council directed in November is completely fine and that's reflective of the language on item 30. And Mr. Bellew, I mean, is PSB's direction to you, does this align with this item? Yes. Yes? And so you're comfortable with it? Yes. Thank you. Item 30 is.
 So 30 is, from what I'm understanding, the request today is just to approve item 30, which gives them the appropriate timeline, six to nine months, so that they can continue to explore these options of conservation easement and additional layers of protection. That's correct. Second. So I move to approve. Thank you.
 Second. Representative Hernandez, can you please clarify your motion? Yes, definitely. Because it's a little confusing. That's okay. I'm sorry. So, honestly, it's just I move to approve item number 30. There's no motion. Without any amendment, without any...
 So there's no motion. So it's a motion. There's no motion? She wants to approve item 30 as written. Okay, so the motion is to direct staff to continue to work with El Paso Water. It's just to approve item 30. Item 30 as written. So move to approve item 30 as written. Laura, it's the language that's on the agenda. Right. Okay, so this is to approve the timeline for the preservation. Is that correct?
 And yes, and the presentation has a timeline and everything on it to approve the timeline for the preservation Is this also gonna allow them to continue to work together before council really makes a decision we're gonna come back to Council Thank you mayor so
 The reason I bring this the amendment forward for this there are several reasons number one is the timeline that's considered Yes, we did in 2021 make a conservation easement for the NAPLAN Which was totally different from this 1,200 acres. We did a conservation easement for lost dog Totally different. There is no I would just say it. There's no proposed joint fire police academies on either property and
 just north of this said property, you do have a quarry that is operational, that is functional, and that is ongoing. And if we don't address those minimal rights, certain things could or could not happen. Who knows what's gonna happen in the future on that part? And the last part is the cost, the cost that's involved. And so that's the reason I put that as well. Thank you. Thank you. Well, with that, we have a motion and a second. Can we take the question?
 Go ahead and take the vote. Yes, so their motion is made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve the timeline presented by staff. Timeline, that's it, right? Hernandez or Anello? Representative, yes, the motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve the timeline for the preservation as it reads on the agenda language, yes sir. Yes sir. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Mayor Pro Tem Shorthland Aye Thank you. Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez Yes Thank you And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. We now return to item 20 which is on page number 6 and item 20 is a quarterly presentation to the City Council on El Paso Water Utility Matters. Good afternoon Mayor and Council.
 So this is the the second of the quarterly presentations that we promised to provide In this one, I'm going to concentrate on the budget and rates primarily because on January the 12th the Public Service Board is going to meet to approve the budget for the fiscal year that starts March 1 So this is timely that you can get this information and also attend that that meeting if you so desire and
 And then we're going to talk about contributions, that is contributions between the public service board and the city, and then open space.
 Now, in terms of the budget priorities, we have big needs. And we proposed a budget to the public service board in late November and then again in December. And these were the budget drivers. So flood control. Again, additional efforts to reduce storm hazards, reliability, primarily in our water and wastewater system, and resiliency.
 I'm going to talk just a little bit about reliability and resiliency. Two hundred million dollars of our CIP comes in those two specific areas. Number one, based on Senate Bill 3 that the state of Texas passed, we are required to have complete backup power indefinitely for the entire water and wastewater system. We think that that's about a hundred million dollar project. And then we have a hundred million dollars of wastewater treatment plant improvements
 for the Bustamante plant to increase its ability to treat and to add additional volume to keep up with the growth on the east side. We always have in terms of securing our water future new water supplies that we have to keep working on and then of course growth. So I'm going to start off with the stormwater budget. So the last time I was here we received information from council based on your
 Interaction with the public that we need to accelerate stormwater projects So that was presented to counts presented to the Public Service Board in the form of two alternatives So alternative one was to continue the current pace. That is the pace that we've been on since 2008 of stormwater improvements which would in order to come up with a seven hundred million dollars that's still in the CIP 20 years
 Alternative two was to compress that master plan into ten years. And so the public service board provided direction to finalize the budget based on alternative two, so an accelerated schedule.
 Now in terms of the coming year's budget, it doesn't really make any difference. This particular alternative two impacts future year's budgets primarily. What this allows us to do this coming year is this represented in this map. So the red dots, that's what we were going to propose in our alternative one and the
 we will be able to do those within the next 10 years. And so it just shows where we have spent the vast majority, 52% that is of the stormwater budget from 2008 to the present have been spent largely in the central core of the city with a little bit on the west side. So this will spread things out a little bit, some more work in the central, some more work on the west side, but several large projects on the east side.
 Now what does it look like to the customers? So we have a typical residential customer, a typical small commercial, and a typical large commercial customer. So right now, a typical residential customer pays $4.51 monthly for their stormwater.
 purposes what we're proposing what the public service board will consider in January is a fee of four dollars and ninety two cents so that's a 41 cent increase in the monthly bill for stormwater and that allows us to go from the forty seven point forty eight point seven million current fiscal year budget to ninety one point eight million for the proposed budget starting March 1
 Now, that is not a terribly large increase, but when you look at the large commercial, you can see that the numbers go up in proportion to the demands that they place on the system. All right, now, how does that fit in with the rest of the state? Well, this is where we fit in, where we're –
 The fourth from the bottom, in terms of our current $4.51, this would just move us up one place above Grand Prairie to the $4.92. So this is next year. Even at the end of 10 years, so if we take all this work and we compress it, that means that there's going to be increases every year for the next 10 years. Even at the 10th year, we're still going to be similar to last year.
 Of course, everybody else on this list is probably going to be raising their rates at the same time, but we'll still be within this table for the most part. Okay, and this is what it looks like. So in 22-23...
 That's the $4.92 that's proposed. And then every year there'll be incremental increases. And so by the time you get up to the 2031, 32, that's where you are about the $10 a month for your typical residential customer. Okay, now in the water and wastewater side, these are the big areas. Our capital budget, we're proposing 583 million. The vast majority of that 49% is reliability.
 and rehabilitation of our infrastructure. And then 17% is for growth, new customers, facilities that we have to provide. And so this is what it looks like, of course, water and wastewater pipelines. In terms of replacement or rehabilitation, pipelines, pump stations, and water tanks are the big, in terms of the numbers of projects, in terms of the cost of the projects,
 The water and wastewater treatment plants are big cost centers. They have environmental considerations in terms of new rules coming down from the state, new rules in terms of our water supply, how the wastewater impacts the water supply, and then the growth of that facility to accommodate the growth, especially on the east side. All right, so system extensions.
 The areas that you see here are the areas where we have growth projects, big growth projects going on.
 We of course always have things going on in the east side because there's a lot of growth there. But I would like to point out in northeast, and I consider this as great progress because 20 years ago we made an investment in northeast thinking that growth was going to occur there based on projections, I should say, that growth was going to occur there. And so we're now finally realizing growth out there in northeast and we're able to utilize that infrastructure. So in terms of the water and wastewater system, our proposed project, we're going to be
 budget is 785 million total. Currently, we're at 459.6. So for your typical residential customer, the bill is going from $56.11 to $62.02, a change of $5.96. Your commercial, $9.75.
 And for that, all that capital improvements, rehabilitation investment will be made. And this, again, is a look. How does this look in terms of...
 our rates. Well, El Paso currently is at the bottom of the list of the largest Texas cities in terms of its rates. And when we implement this proposed rate increase, we're going to climb up above Dallas and Laredo. But I have here in my folder where Dallas and Laredo are both going to increase their rates this year. So we'll still probably be at the bottom of the list by the time we have a couple of months
 to go. So you see in comparison to Austin and Corpus Christi, our wastewater and water rates are still very low. Now the monthly residential bill, if you add the water and wastewater and the stormwater together, it's $6.37 increase. And so this is what it looks like. The current bill, $60.62 and the proposed bill, $66.92.
 And for that, the average customer in the system pays $2.20 a day. Now, we have a program the Public Service Board implemented a number of years ago for those customers who are very conservation-oriented and who use less than four CCFs per month.
 When we started down the road of this program, there was about 30,000 customers that took advantage of it, and now we're almost at 40,000 customers in this past fiscal year that take advantage of that. So they save $11.59 every month.
 coming up in the proposed budget is $12.88, even more savings. So their daily cost of water, wastewater, and stormwater is $1.80 daily. Now, we work with our community customer assistance programs. So we have programs with Amistad and Project Bravo with CARES money. We've assisted through those programs,
 more than almost 6,000 customers for 2.1 million. That ends this month. We have a new low-income assistance water program that's not tied to COVID. So the CARES Act is tied to COVID. This is not. It starts in January and goes...
 throughout the year 3.4 million is allocated by the state to El Paso County and that program will be administered by project Bravo so we're already have agreements in place with them to continue to provide assistance to low income customers we also aggressively look for money from grant money that is from the federal agencies
 We are looking for, over the next five years, $100 million. That includes $35 million from the Corps of Engineers for stormwater projects. We've been very successful with the Corps of Engineers getting about $5 million a year in grant money here in El Paso spent, and we're trying to focus that money into stormwater.
 So that is where the Corps of Engineers Forte is, and that's where we have the demand, and that's where we have probably our least amount of funding coming into the system. We also have programs that we're working with for Bliss. We supply...
 some water to Fort Bliss. We don't supply all the water to Fort Bliss. We do supply all the wastewater services to Fort Bliss. And there are things that we need to work on together. For example, there is a line from our system all the way out into Mexico into McGregor Range where the only sources apply for McGregor Range Base Camp. And that line was put in in 1960. It needs to be replaced. So we're working on that as well.
 So this is how the rate consideration works. So we have a public hearing in November, we have a public hearing in December, and then we have the final adoption meeting on January the 12th. And so whatever the Public Service Board acts on the 12th, that rate will be effective on the billing cycle that starts in March. So that doesn't mean every customer starts paying more in March, it just depends on when their bill is issued.
 financial and infrastructure contributions to the city so you're familiar with this based on the 10% of water sales the franchise fee the 5% of land sales twenty five million four hundred thousand dollars that we're projecting for the for the coming year now in addition to that and we recognize that one of the primary sources of frustration in the city is paving streets
 So I don't think we've ever conveyed this to you before, but year in and year out, El Paso Water paves $5 million worth of streets, curb to curb paving. That's not patch paving, that's curb to curb resurfacing of streets. And so when we do our normal projects and we do curb to curb, that's a benefit that accrues to the city as a whole. And we're...
 I'm proud of that and happy to continue. We also give conservation grants to parks, the libraries, and more. We have worked with the parks department for many, many years on contributing money to replace irrigation systems, implement the Maxi-Com irrigation management system. We give free use of training at the Tech H2O.
 uh... and then we have our education collaboration at the zoo which we've had for many many years now we talked a little bit about open space and again i apologize it seems like it's contentious but the public service board has has been very much a part of the open space discussion from the beginning uh... so uh... repair money was used to purchase land
 We are the trustee the land was specifically purchased for groundwater rights And spacing of wells and the money generated for land sales goes to the CIP and that helps keep the Rates low it's helped keep the rates low for many many years Under the rules only the lands not needed for water waste water and storm water can be sold but in terms of How this has worked out?
 The public service board to date has preserved almost 11,000 acres of open space and that includes a variety of things where the Franklin Mountain State Park that was land that was transferred to the state and then we have these other things which were purchased.
 uh... uh... of course the preservation of the franklin mountain state park predated the whole stormwater issue but then we have the mou that pertains to the use of the ten percent money and so we have other uh... contributions that have been made there now i want to talk about something that we don't get a lot of publicity for but i think this is something that for the open space community is very valuable so open space leaving land as natural
 State is one thing, but there's also wetlands for habitats. There was a period of time in El Paso's history where there was a lot of wetlands up and down in the Rio Grande. And so what we've been doing is we've been adding to the inventory. So the Rio Bosque wetlands, which was set aside by the federal government as part of the American Canal Extension Project.
 wetland but it was set aside without any water at all so it was a dry wetlands so we stepped in the public service board stepped in and we acquired from the Paso County Water Improvement District a water right so that we can now irrigate the park with surface water when it's available and we also irrigate the park with reclaimed water in conjunction with
 El Paso County Water Improvement District. The park is managed by the UTEP Center for Environmental Resource Management. We pay for the people that staff that park. Now in addition to that, we have a partnership with the Corps of Engineers. So, so far we have spent, that is we have received from the Corps $600,000.00
 of funding for improvements to the Ria Bosque wetlands. And we have a $12 million project on the books with the Corps of Engineers, and we're expecting to receive $9 million from them to make further enhancements to that project.
 uh rio bosque wetlands now i've only talked about the rio bosque but we also added two other wetlands uh completely from scratch so we added to the system which is feather lake 2 and basin g so a total of 40 acres of water uh wetlands wet wetlands that were contributed uh to the local environment and we're going to continue uh plowing ahead with that as well we also have a
 partnership with frontera land alliance we provided for the repair of the damaged nature preserve after 2006 we preserved and and it was a little bit of a struggle i'll admit
 the lost dog but we also did the lazy cow and the roundhouse trails as recreational areas so we're exploring this partnership as a model for future open space preservation and we'll continue to plow ahead with that now one of the things that that you have also mentioned that you're getting complaints from your customers about it is getting in contact with us so I'm going to bring up something here our new customer information system
 We are getting ready to go online with it. We've been working on this for three years. This is the most complicated IT infrastructure that we have. It's the billing system. It also provides automated options so that a person can look at their balance, make payments and that sort of thing online without having to call in and talk to a customer service rep.
 So we are getting ready in March to go online with that system. Now, unfortunately, when we switch over from one to the other, there's going to be a period of time where the old system goes dark before the new system is in operation. And so we're going to be providing information to the public, just preparing everybody for that transition period, which we're going to try to keep as short as possible. But at the end of this...
 we will have a system that's much easier for customers to use and much easier for our own employees to learn how to use so that we can maintain our staffing levels better. And with that, I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Any members? Any questions for the members of council? Representative Schwartzwein, if you're there, do you have any questions? Okay, I have a question. Thank you, Mr. Ballou, for spending your day with us today.
 And Happy New Year, Happy Holidays. So just a couple of things regarding the rates itself. When I look at the rates, I try to look at a percentage increase. And so do you know what they are on the top of your head? Nine percent, I think, is the percentage. Nine percent across for this is related stormwater fees? Nine percent for water, 13 percent for wastewater, and nine percent, I think, is also the same for stormwater.
 Okay, so for stormwater I was looking at to make sure that there was equity there I saw there was about 9% for a residential commercial commercial. I had not had an opportunity to calculate for on slide 13 shows
 residential and commercial which is the three-quarter meter percent increase is exactly the same are they they're all across right because we are Required by state law that we have to charge everybody the same under the same set of circumstances So whether it's marathon refinery or or your house for a gallon of water, it's about the same So it comes across it comes out to about 9% What is the difference? And I'm sorry if you're repeating this I
 For the residential commercial for the waste and wastewater, is it also 9%? Because I'm trying to do math here. I'm looking at and finding over 10%. It is over 10%. So the water is 9%, and the wastewater, I think, is 13%. 13%. So that's going to average more than 10%. But is it the same for residential and commercial? Yes. Okay. So you all were methodical about making sure it was the same percentage increase. Okay. Okay.
 Now, related to the improvements you're going to make for customer service, when you're going to do that, my assumption is that you're going to do outreach, correct? Yes. But you're going to know exactly what day it's going to happen? Yes. Okay, so we'll be able to communicate that. Right. Now, what about looking at improving technology so that you can get real-time data on when there's outages or breaks in lines?
 Okay, so when it comes to outages that the customer sees, we are, we've been implementing for a number of years what we, what is euphemistically referred to as the Smart Meter Program. So we have meters, the customer meter transmits information back to a central point. So we have been implementing that.
 five or six years to go to have those meters everywhere. But that tells us if there is an interruption of water to a particular customer. Now, in terms of the main breaks, we have pressure monitoring throughout the system, and so when the pressure drops, we do get a signal of the approximate area where the break has occurred, and that way it assists us in dispatching our forces.
 But for the first one, can you elaborate a little bit more? So it's a five-year plan? Okay, so let me explain what the meters that we have used in the past are. They simply have a register on it that spins, and there's numbers on it. So it has to be read. A person has to come up and look at it and record that information on a little handheld device. Right.
 So what we are doing is changing those meters out with a new type of meter which is transmitting the value. So you don't have to go up and read it.
 that information is constantly being transmitted back to a central point. Okay. And so we started with those meters about seven years ago, and we started implementing on medians and high traffic areas. They worked out very well. And then we started out in the more remote areas where we have big distances from one customer to the other. And so now we're plowing ahead with the bulk of the city.
 Okay, so could someone request to update theirs? Or is it just something you're putting in? We probably could do that. One other thing from the customer is that the customer is also able to receive information. Now, based on other cities that have implemented this throughout the state, we know that most customers don't ever look at it, but it will be available. Okay.
 So I'm not sure that you participated in our strategic planning session, but if you heard anything about it, one of the common themes that kept being brought up was the impact fees.
 I wouldn't be representative I am if I didn't tell you how important it is that we do evaluate that again And I know that it has to be done in tandem with the city And the city has heard their fair share of how I think that we need to review that now you had mentioned a differential fee in the past and so I just to bring
 You back up to speed to what you said. You said it would be implemented by this summer. Are you still on track on that differential rate? So in order to implement that, we first have to have this new customer information system in place. And then we could implement, of course, that will require a lot of communication as well. But we can implement that and move forward this summer. This summer. Okay. Just wanted to remind you that I remembered. Sure.
 We're very excited. But that's also a differential rate. But we still have this question of impact fees themselves. They haven't been evaluated. They have to be re-evaluated. And then growth patterns are changing. So all of that needs to happen again. And so I'm entering my second term, and it hasn't been –
 brought up again and so i just want to bring it back to your attention that member multiple members of council made that a priority put it in their presentation the impact fees need to be updated and they need to be equitable so that our el paso rate payers are not paying for new development and so differential fee will help but we still need to revisit the impact fees and we're more than happy to support the city in that effort
 Thank you. And then finally, after the rates go into place, after they're approved, what is the mechanism that you notify ratepayers on any changes? Okay, so we've already started the notification process to inform the public that the budget is being considered and what the numbers are that are being considered. So that information goes along starting November, December.
 and inviting the public again to come to the January meeting. But once the January meeting happens and the official numbers are adopted from January until March 1, there's a series of public information outreach efforts that go along to convey that information to the public. Okay. I do have a question, and I'm not sure you're prepared to, or if it's, I guess it's relevant since it's an update. The project, the Frontera Project,
 I'm not sure what the total but I saw the I saw the press release and I just had I was just curious when you all say that you're gonna be testing it does that mean it's still gonna be overflowing into Rio Grande then so it's completely done being tested and so if so how long is that going to continue for okay so that's a good question so we did as you pointed out complete the pipeline itself and so we started from
 We completed just before New Year's. Okay, so we took a break for the New Year's holiday for our workers to go home. It's been a holiday. But when they resume work on Monday, we then started transferring water into the pipeline. So we're taking a portion of the water that's being discharged into the river, diverting to the pipeline, and that portion increases every day. We add more water.
 water to the pipeline so that at some point all the water will be in the pipeline and not being discharged in the river. The purpose in doing it slowly like that is so that we don't shock the new pipeline and create some greater problems. So we're just starting it up gradually.
 and making sure that everything is running fine and successfully. We also have to restart the treatment plant on the downstream end because it's been without wastewater for many months. So we have to restart that biological action. So that's what's going to be taking place over the next few weeks.
 You know, let's be sure that we it's it is not our intent to prolong the agony that we face in doing this So we're going to be transferring water into the pipeline as much as possible. We already have our plan laid out to start cleaning up What is what has taken place so far? To remind everybody that
 The wastewater is in the Rio Grande for a short period of time and we pick it up in our wastewater treatment plants and put it back through the treatment plants. So we're going to continue that, but we're going to keep that as short as possible, but within a matter of weeks, all of that water will be diverted into the pipeline. And that goes all the way down the border to the Mission Valley area?
 the water that's being diverted into the canals, it does go to the Bustamante plant, which is down by the Zaragoza Port of Entry. Okay, that's right. I mean, because it's clear there's still a very foul smell. And I take the border freeway frequently to get home, and so you can smell it from Executive all the way down. And so I was just hoping we would have relief by now, but you're saying a couple more weeks until everything is operational. Right.
 Thank you for your time and thank you for being here. And I look forward to the presentation by El Paso Water, my committee meeting tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, there's no other questions. Thank you, sir. Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. Okay. We had Dr. Rick Bonhart that signed up to speak. I think they're not here any longer. I believe he left. And we do have Mr. Joe Garibay. Mayor, I had a request, sir. Good afternoon, Mr. Garibay. You have three minutes, sir.
 Okay. Thank you again for allowing me to speak. Again, I am Joe Garibay, the chair of the Open Space Advisory Board, and I'm also on the board of the Borderland Mountain Biking Association. And while it did sound contention, you know, he, Mr. Boulou did talk about open space in his presentation. It's a big issue we're dealing with now. It did sound a little contentious, but I would like to also accommodate...
 the Public Service Board. We did have some issues out there on the Northeast land with the Roundhouse Road. PSB was very helpful to us in making sure that that got resolved. We worked with them and DROPE to get that taken care of. So PSB and us, we do have a good communication. We are talking. And they actually did put a point person in place, so yes, they are very helpful in terms of open space. I'm sure we'll get through these other issues too. That's all I would like to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 mayor proten thanks mayor um sorry i thought the request to speak went earlier um just wanted to thank mr bellew again for for this presentation and for the work that he's done to our community um looking forward to the improvements in the palisades area that are going on at some
 I think there's some some positive things that are there much needed stormwater space. I do have one concern to relay to you, sir. That's relating towards the water main water main project that's going on on Stanton Street between Canterbury and the terminus of Stanton Street. Just hear almost daily concerns from residents that they're there with the
 with the speed of the project being done and the safety concerns in driving in that area. Over half the street is unpaved and I understand that the other half is scheduled to be worked on as well. It's just been a project that seems to have been going on for many, many months now. There's a lot of concerns right here almost daily from residents who have no recourse but to drive through that area daily.
 We do intend to pave that curb to curb so it is going to be completely paved. It is taking us some time. It's difficult construction and we have the same problem that we have on all our construction projects is that keeping the contractors workforce in place during the pandemic, it just creates delays.
 We are trying to get that project done as expeditiously as possible, but at the end of the day, that street will be paved from curb to curb. Do you know if it will be following the bike master plan that the city has approved for that area or is it going to just be normal restriping? That might be less of a question for you than for San Francisco desert. I don't really know the answer to that question, Representative. We'll find out and get back to you.
 i would hope it would follow the white master plan that we approved back in 2016. that's probably not your call thank you again mr billy thank you thank you again mr prime yes mayor that brings us to items number 24 and 25 these are the first reading of ordinances there's a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative salcido to approve items 24 and 25 they're the first reading of ordinances on that motion call for the vote
 Representative Molinar, the voting session is open for the first reading of ordinances on items 24 and 25. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Aye. Thank you. Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Rodriguez not present. Item number 26.
 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0156 motor oil antifreeze lubricants transmission and hydraulic oils and fluids to mj mater enterprises inc dba biodyne chemical company second mayor there is public comment on this item we have mr adrian amaya that signed up to speak okay hi everyone
 Good afternoon, I'm Adrian Amaya and I'm here with C&R Distributing. As you well know, we were deemed a non-responsive bidder on solicitation number 2022-0156 due to leaving the manufacturer portion of the bid documents blank. First, I'd like to apologize on behalf of the company. This is a process that we do not take lightly and we're extremely disappointed to find out about our mistake. However, we...
 i can assure you that this was not due to negligence nor as a way of deceiving the purchasing department it was merely an oversight an innocent mistake what was meant to be written there was the source of the product was from north american lubricants or exxon mobil lubricants cnr has been participating in these bids for decades now and has had a positive track record of correctly following the process now i believe that in today's environment with supply headwinds hitting our every direction throughout all industries
 Our firm can provide the best results regarding supply availability and customer service, not to mention all while being the low bid, which benefits everybody. Please consider my apology as you make your final decision on this solicitation. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Prime, with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. There is a motion and a second. Mayor.
 I just wanted to give respect to the gentleman. He's been here all day. And so I did want to share with you, and no apology necessary, that we do get a lot of companies that are deemed nonresponsive.
 in this case for not bidding on all items and then another one not responsive or not bidding on on items They're not put on like any black lives or prohibited from from bidding in the future Okay, and so if if in the event that a company is not responsive and so they're not considered a
 there is no opportunity to rebid on the option because there's a there is other responsive and responsible bidders correct that's correct okay so just rest assured you know it doesn't it doesn't penalize any company we appreciate you being here and sharing your sentiments but the process is very clear and members of council we are we are required to vote on other applicants who have
 done their due diligence and have done it correctly and so that that's really just the way the bidding process works. Okay. Thank you. So there is a motion and a second to award the solicitation on that motion. Call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Aye. Thank you. In the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present.
 That brings us to item number 27, which is a public hearing on an ordinance approving amendment number 21 to the project plan and reinvestment zone financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number five. Motion to approve. Is there a presentation on this item? What's that? I think you're on mute. Oh, I'm sorry about that. Yes, if IT can pull up my presentation. IT, this is for item number 27. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon Mayor and Council. This is Melissa Chavez with the Economic and International Development Department. Item 27 is the Tax Increment Reinvestment Zone number 5 Amendment 21 to the project and finance plan. Next slide please.
 This falls under goal one cultivate an environment conductive to strong sustainable economic development. Subsection 1.7 identify and develop plans for areas of reinvestment and local partnership. Next slide please. So this is a public hearing for the discussion and action of an ordinance
 Approving Amendment Number 21 to the Project Plan and Reinvestment Zone Financing Plan for the Tax Increment Reinvestment Zone, or the TERS, Number 5, to provide funding to the 309 Mills LLC Improvement Project of the property located at 309 Mills Avenue. Subject to the execution of a separate agreement by and between the City of El Paso and the project developers. Next slide, please.
 Some of the background of this ordinance is that the TURS 5 covers some of the downtown area. And back on June 15, 2021, the TURS 5 board recommended approval of the zone's participation in the redevelopment of the 309 Mills Avenue project. This property is also otherwise known as the DeSoto Hotel.
 And back in December 14, 2021, City Council approved the participation of the zone in this redevelopment project. Next slide, please. The applicants of this project are proposing to invest a minimum of $1.2 million to renovate this flighted hotel, which will consist of 34 units. In this picture, we see the proposed renovation of the front of the hotel, which will greatly increase the aesthetic value of the area.
 The redevelopment includes converting the upper hotel the upper floors to a standard hotel and rehabilitating the storefront at the first floor into a restaurant. The proposed incentive is not to exceed $58,636 dollars. And finally additional funding for the facade and signage will be funded by DMD programs which are funded by the city. And next slide please. And that concludes my presentation. Please let me know if you have any questions.
 Mayor, I just want to say I think this is a really great project that council has been made aware of. I think it builds upon the successes and adds now a 12th hotel within 1,000 feet of a streetcar stop, again, continuing the economic development potential of the streetcar corridor and a lot of the initiatives that we've seen both in the public and private sector over the last 10 years in downtown El Paso. Thank you.
 And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. There was a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to adopt the ordinance. On that motion, call for the vote. The voting session is open. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsman? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present.
 That brings us to item number 29, which is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services construction management contract with the city of El Paso and Park Hill Smith and Cooper Inc for a project known as EPIA reconstruction of taxiways J and K2. Second. Motion to second. Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 29.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? We. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Rodriguez not present. That brings us to executive session. May we have a motion to retire into executive session? Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1. Application of El Paso Electric Company to revise its energy efficiency cost recovery factor and to request to establish revised cost caps. Public Utility Commission of Texas, Docket Number 52081.
 Matter number 21-1008-172, under 551.071. Executive Session Item 2, Application of El Paso Electric Company to Change Rates. Public Utility Commission of Texas, docket number 52195. Matter number 21-1008-174, under 551.071.
 These matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney. It is 3.58 p.m. Ms. Prine, we have a quorum. Yes, may we have a motion to come out of executive session? Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 4.57 p.m. Alternate Mayor Prochem Hernandez is working her way back
 to her chair i know alternate mayor pro tem hernandez we're on ex1 hi sorry i'm out of breath um ex1 there's no action thank you ex2 and there's no action thank you may we have a motion to adjourn so move there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor yes anyone opposed and the meeting is adjourned at 4 57 p.m thank you