and then we'll just pass that on to the next one. I think it's time to go. Well, I'm going to ask you to get a password for the service that you're using. So, this is the password for the service that you're using. It's not the address that you saw on the screen. It's the password. the same thing with the first two sessions. The first two sessions are a great start, and a great highlight for the panel. So, I was thinking, we can plan a great support program that really starts with the first two sessions and then just the first two days. So, all across the city sections, the second session is the first two sessions. So, this is not just a second session. It's a two-day two-day session. So, it's a big announcement so it's nice to know that you're still getting the feedback and the support that you need to help this next step. with our own resources. So, I'm going to start with the first one. So, I'm going to start with the first one. So, I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one. And I'm going to start with the first one The first thing we see is the amount of money that's being used to pay for the rents and the stuff that we see is the prices and the savings that we're getting from the city to the townhouse. So how do we see the amount of rents that we get from the city to the townhouse that we're still getting rents from the city to the townhouse? So we can assess what our gross rate is if we're using the business process and we're getting rents from the city to the townhouse. And so we're asking for that assistance. And then it's really about the business process. So we're asking for the service. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. to the next page of the website. And it's a great way to see the results of the research and the results of the research. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm a professor at the University of Chicago. So I'm a professor at the University of Chicago. And I've studied business administration as a professor at the University of Chicago. And I've studied business administration as a professor at the University of Chicago. And I've studied business administration at the University of Chicago. So I've studied business administration at the University of Chicago. So I've studied business administration at the University of Chicago. So I've studied business administration at the University of Chicago. And I've studied business administration at the University of Chicago. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, this is a great example of how to use the browser to get to the information that you need. So, this is a basic browser. So, you can go to the browser and say, you know, this is my website. And you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. So, you can see that it's a simple screen. I'm just going to go ahead and start this. So, this is a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of that's a successful reason to be excited about this. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. So, I'm going to go ahead and get started. Thank you. Thank you. and we'll see if we can get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the world. So, again, it's a great opportunity to get a better understanding of what's going on in the I was in the back row, and I was like, what is this? And I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, I don't know. I was like, Thank you. Thank you. and I think that's something that's important. So, we have the citizens' ticket balance, which is one of the reasons that this is a very important piece of this, and it's the evidence that makes this a very important factor for making this a very important step. So, that's the current data. And then, I think, for the next second period, the Senate is out to be authorized to do the second test of interest. So, we're seeing that there's six of them, but of course, that's necessarily containing the total. and the same thing with the client component. The signature is not the same case. The client should be the same amount of things. The next step would be to be able to see all the effects set by the server and to make all the things that are set by the documents more to the experience of the user itself.