Lisa mayor pro tem shorts fine representative Molina representative Rodriguez representative Rivera representative Lisa Raga representative an LL are you joining us virtually today no they're both virtual are joining us virtually are you present
 Yes. Thank you. Representative Salcido has requested to be excused from today's meeting. It is 9.04 a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Robert Hemphill, Jr. Good morning, Chaplain. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning to the Honorable Mayor Lisa, Oscar Lisa, the council members, the members
 City officials and dignitaries, please bow your heads as I pray. Dear wise and loving Father, thank you on behalf of all who are gathered here today. The Holy Scripture says that citizens ought to obey the governing authorities, since you have established those very authorities to promote peace, order, and justice. Therefore, I pray for our mayor, for the various levels of city officials,
 and for this assembled council. I'm asking that you would grant them wisdom to govern, make decisions in the interest of the citizens of this community. Thank you for many abundant blessings. Thank you for life itself. And thank you for the measure of help that we need to fulfill our callings. Thank you for giving us the ability to be involved in the useful work and the honor bearing appropriate responsibilities.
 It is in your most blessed name I pray. Amen. Thank you. Amen. Thank you. That brings us to the Pledge of Allegiance. Our Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you. And again, welcome everybody to our city council meeting. I do want to take a few minutes to kind of reflect on what's going on within our community. Thank you.
 on what's going on within our community. And as we all know, the coronavirus is in our community and we need to make sure that we protect ourselves, we protect our family, and we protect our coworkers. As we continue to get vaccinated, I've always said that we represent 100% of our community and the people that are vaccinated and the people that are not vaccinated. It's our duty as elected officials and leaders to make sure we protect them all.
 losing one more life in our community is one life too many and like i said we want everyone to get vaccinated we want everyone to understand their surroundings social distance sanitize your hands wear a mask but again we need to make sure that we protect and we love everyone in our community and protect 100 of the people and um i know that uh
 We've lost some lives in the last couple weeks, last couple months, and the last year, and they're all part of our team. They're all part of our city, and they're all part of us. And I want to make sure that we continue to never forget them and continue to understand that the coronavirus is a deadly disease, and it's a disease that we need to make sure that we protect ourselves and everyone else. And with that, I'm going to represent Rivetta. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to...
 Actually represent Emily not and I would like to Have a moment of silence for sergeant Jerry Morales who passed away this week from the El Paso Police Department served Over 20 years ugly and we just lost him Yes, once again, this is for sergeant head are though Morales also known as Jerry ID number one three nine nine Served our community with the Palsa Police Department for 30 years
 one year's plus and he passed away on january the 7th today are his services so we wish express our condolences to the family and everyone on the council police department in the city that he served thank you thank you again and this is somebody that you know when we talk about covid19 we talk about first responders and we talk about medical providers they can't do it remotely
 they go to work every day and they're out there every day to protect ourselves with no fear for their own safety but to make sure that you and i as citizens of our community are well protected so and that's why i ask please wear your mask please protect yourself your loved ones because those medical providers first responders are police officers they don't call in sick
 they don't work remotely they're there to protect us day in and day out and put their life on the line for you and i so please let's keep them in our parish and let's um let's continue to protect ourselves mayor pro tem yes mayor i just um i had an item that was different from from covet but i wanted to first of all give thanks to city staff over this last weekend for acting nimbly in regards
 putting out a statement and solidarity and support with the anti-semitic and terrorist attack in collierville texas
 um over the past weekend under your leadership mayor and the direction of this council last year we signed a letter of mayors united against anti-semitism from the american jewish council that during times like this our city would stand up in solidarity and support with the jewish community of america this is at a time where according to the ajc
 1 in 4 Jewish Americans have reported an anti-Semitic attack where we've seen year over year anti-Semitism increasing and where we as a community have seen the results of domestic terrorism fueled by ethnicity, fueled by religion, and fueled ultimately by xenophobia and racism. And so I think it's really important that we acknowledge and get
 give thanks to city staff for being able to be so nimble over the weekend and also for this mayor and this council to stand in support in solidarity with the jewish community of collierville texas and across this country during these trying times thank you mayor pro temp and with that i'd like to have a moment of silence
 everything we've just discussed talked about anti-senate cynicism and of course sergeant morales and the rest of our community so please join me in a moment of silence thank you all and may god bless everyone and may god bless america that brings us to the mayor's proclamation the first proclamation is veterans of foreign wars post 812 of villary recognition day
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Ms. Prime. So whereas the Veterans of the Foreign Wars VFW Auxiliary is a fraternal, historical, and educational affiliate of one of the posts of the VFW and was founded in 1914 as VFW Ladies Auxiliary to help veterans and their family. And on August 21, 2015, it became the VFW Auxiliary.
 Whereas members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States Auxiliary set out to serve the veterans of this country and its communities in honor of the sacrifices and commitment of every man and woman who has served in uniform. And whereas the Veterans of the Foreign Wars Auxiliary Post 812 is one of the nation's oldest veteran service organizations, and its members are the relatives of those who served in a location of foreign conflict,
 and nationwide auxiliaries have volunteered millions of hours and fundraised millions of dollars for charitable projects that benefit veterans, military service personnel, and their families.
 And whereas the Veterans of Foreign War Auxiliary has achieved its own unique identity and developed a social conscience of its own, with the paramount goal of helping families in distress, where its members perform community service, fund cancer research, fight drug abuse and illiteracy, advocate for the rights of the elderly, and support the VFW National Home.
 Special Olympics and other worthy causes. And whereas January 9th, 2022 marked the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Veterans of Foreign Wars post 812 Auxiliary in El Paso, now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that January 19th, 2022 shall be known as Veterans of Foreign Wars post 812 Auxiliary Recognition Day. Thank you.
 Mayor, I don't know if anyone is there who would like to say something. I want to thank everybody. Go ahead, please. Is this better? You can move it up. You can pull it up. The microphone. There you go. Thank you. Thank you. It gives me great pleasure to be here on such a memorable day. The Auxiliary is a support group for all our veterans.
 And we started back in 1922 for our local 812 Auxiliary. So today, or on the 100th celebration, was a mile marker for us. And actually, we were paving the way for others that come after us, because some of us won't be here in another 100 years. But either way, it gives me.
 Great pleasure to be here and receive such a memorable award. And the day of the proclamation being today, and the plaque will be hanging in our honor room. So thank you so very much for recognizing the veterans and the auxiliary. Thank you. I know we have a lot of the veterans from the Korean War here. Mr. Flores, please, Mr. Flores.
 mr flotas i get uh the honor to see you twice in four days good morning morning good morning mayor members of city council i'm pete flores korean war veteran president chapter 249 we are here to thank you personally for the name of the uh of the highway that um that we have been waiting desperately for so long to be recognized although the korean war has not been called a forgotten war
 The bravery and sacrifice of the men that were there fighting this war and defending freedom in Korea will never be forgotten. And that's because you all made it possible, and we certainly thank you for that. The Korean War has been put aside because it's been in the center of the Second World War and the Vietnam War, and so consequently we were not really recognized for a long time.
 But the name of this highway is a tribute to all the Korean veterans that actually not only are alive now, but the ones that we left behind. And for that, we certainly thank you for naming this highway and affording us the opportunity to be recognized. I'd like to specifically thank Ms. Hernandez.
 for her support in this project. She was very helpful in guiding us into this process of naming the highway the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway. Especially thank you also to Council Mullinard because that's his district and we certainly appreciate the fact that you will be there when we unveil the sign.
 And of course, Representative Anello for her support in Portage Highway is also understanding her district. So thank you again, all of you. And again, we are very appreciative of the fact that finally the Korean War Lands will be recognized. And for that, thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning Mr. Flores and Mayor Leaser. This is Representative Hernandez. If you could just hold tight, we do have two items that we'd like to present. It's a resolution as well as expenses of discretionary. And so that's on the revisions for today's meeting. I'm sorry that I wasn't able to interject earlier. No, and we'll move those all the way to the front.
 so we can so we can uh right up well it's right after consensus to the front anyway but uh thank you mr floris and thank you for everyone that uh we just want to listen to your item 15 now or do you want to wait for the other proclamation uh can we take those items now ms prine yes yeah we'll go ahead and take them now to move are these items 14 and 15 moves second there's a motion and a second to move items 14 and 15 to the forefront of the agenda all in favor anyone opposed
 The motion passes. We now go to item number 14. This is discussion in action to approve a resolution authorizing the expenditure of District 3, District 2, and District 4 discretionary funds
 towards the efforts to fund the design construct and installation highway markers naming a specific portion or segment the korean war veterans memorial highway and declaring that such expenditure meets a municipal purpose to promote the visual image of el paso by providing the visual impression of the community gateway and item number 15 is discussion in action for city council to approve a resolution recognizing the korean war veteran association and
 Colonel Joseph C. Rodriguez Medal of Honor Chapter 249 for their efforts with Texas State Senator Cesar Blanco through the passage of SB 1704 to erect state highway signage honoring Korean War Memorial veterans and supports a highway signage project designing a segment of Patriot Freeway US 54 as a Korean War Memorial Highway. So moved. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second. Is there any public comment? Yes, sir. We have Senator Cesar Blanco that signed up to speak on this item. Good morning, sir. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Good morning. Can you hear me? I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council Members, Representative Hernandez, Anello and Molina. Thank you for bringing this important resolution forward for consideration. It really is an honor to join you all by phone today. As you all know, the United States, the Korean War has often been called the forgotten war. Mr. Flores had just mentioned that in his remarks.
 and while this war is often forgotten um you know we we have to ensure that the veterans who fought in this conflict are never forgotten and the bravery and the sacrifice of those who who sowed the seeds of today's freedoms and today's peace uh they should be commemorated you know with a long-standing tradition um of military service in my family
 You know, I know exactly what it's like to leave your family. And six million Americans served in the Korean War. They all left home to go protect freedom. And every one of them left their lives behind to promote and defend the international peace, to defend economic prosperity, to defend human rights, security, and the rule of law.
 And I think it's important that we continue to recognize, that we continue to remember and to honor our heroes' bravery every time we can. That's why I authored Senate Bill 1704 to designate a portion of the United States Highway 54, also known as the Patriot Freeway in El Paso County, as the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway.
 Now, this memorial in our city, it's not only going to serve as a tribute to the service and the sacrifice of the veterans that gave every single ounce of themselves during the war, but I also think it's going to act as a reminder to everyone as they travel on the highway. It's a reminder of their bravery and really a reminder of the lasting legacy of these war heroes.
 Think about it. 72 years ago, millions of Americans answered the call to defend a country that they never knew and people that they never even met. And I think that their service continues to shape the relationship between Korea and the United States and has allowed democratic ideals to flourish. And I think the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway naming.
 is a step in the right direction to recognize their efforts. So today I'm proud to speak on behalf of city council, item number 15, to recognize the Korean War Veterans Association's effort in helping me get Senate Bill 1704 passed and all of their work to help raise the necessary fund for the signage. We're still raising money for it.
 And as a community, I think it's important that we continue working to redefine the Korean War as a remembered war rather than a forgotten one, helping to memorialize the sacrifices of all those who served during one of the deadliest wars in our history. So I want to thank the mayor and council, Pete Flores and the Korean War Veterans Association,
 for allowing a portion of the discretionary funds to be used toward the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway Fund. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Senator. And with that, we go to Representative Hernandez.
 Sure. And so for everyone's understanding, this item is to expend discretionary funds to help with the signage of the highway. And so the next item will be the resolution, which I have it in front of me. I do have a quick floor amendment to that resolution, and then we'll make a request for approval. But if we can take this vote now, Mayor, and then move on to item 15. Great.
 there is a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative rivera to approve item number 14 on that motion call for the vote representative anello thank you hernandez yes thank you i'm not it's not showing up on mine did i take my vote verbally yes sir hi in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously we now go to item 15
 which is the resolution recognizing the Korean War Veteran Association. Colonel Joseph C. Rodriguez, Medal of Honor, Chapter 249 for the efforts with Texas State Senator Cesar Blanco through the passage of SB 1704 to erect state highway signage honoring Korean War Memorial veterans and supports a highway signage project designating a segment of Patriot Freeway US 54 as a Korean War Memorial Highway. Mr. Hernandez, you want to make the motion, Mr. Hernandez? Yes.
 Oh, okay. Sure. I'm sorry, y'all. So the amendment, it was actually for the discretionary funds, but we can do that at a later time. I just wanted to make sure that the language was reflected correctly, but we will do that at the later time of the meeting. So to read the resolution, I have it here.
 It's a page and a half, so just bear with me. Whereas the Korean War was one of the first conflicts of the Cold War, beginning when North Korea forces crossed the 38th parallel into South Korea on June 25, 1950, stiff resistance from United Nations troops led to the intervention of the People's Republic of China in November 1950.
 And whereas often called the Forgotten War, the Korean War continued for three years and cost the lives of more than 54,000 American service members, with more than 103,000 wounded. The courage and sacrifice of these brave men and women prevented a communist takeover of South Korea, which has since become a prosperous, thriving United States ally.
 And whereas during the Korean War, approximately 1,789,000 members of the United States Armed Forces served in a theater of operations along with the forces of the Republic of Korea and 20 other members of the United Nations to defend freedom and democracy. And whereas casualties of the United States during the Korean War included 54,246 dead, of whom 33,739 were battle deaths.
 more than 103,284 wounded and approximately 8,055 listed as missing in action or prisoners of war. And whereas the Korean War Veterans Recognition Act
 was enacted on July 27, 2009, so that the honorable service and noble sacrifice by members of the United States Armed Forces in the Korean War will never be forgotten. And whereas in the 72 years since the outbreak of the Korean War, the Republic of Korea has emerged from a war-torn economy into one of the major economies in the world and one of the largest trading partners of the United States.
 And whereas since the end of the Korean War era, more than 28,500 members of the United States Armed Forces have served annually in the United States Forces Korea to defend the Republic of Korea against external aggression and to promote regional peace. And whereas the ashes of war, sharing of spilled blood of the battlefield, the United States and the Republic of Korea have continuously stood shoulder to shoulder,
 to promote and defend international peace, security, economic prosperity, human rights, and the rule of law both on the Korean Peninsula and beyond.
 forever honor the legacy of the Korean War veterans who uphold the ideals they secured through this hard-won victory and we pay tribute to the American patriots who fought for freedom and democracy throughout the Korean War and whereas it is truly fitting of the Korean War and its veterans to receive recognition for their bravery and their devotion to duty now therefore be it resolved that the city of El Paso and the Paso County and state of Texas are
 One honors the noble service and sacrifice of the United States Armed Forces and the armed forces of allied countries that served in Korea since 1950 to the present. And two recognizes the commitment of the United States to its alliance
 with the Republic of Korea for the betterment of peace and the prosperity of the Korean Peninsula. And three, honors and recognizes those souls who gave the ultimate sacrifice during this war. And four, recognizes the Korean War Veteran Association's Colonel Joseph C. Rodriguez Medal of Honor, Chapter 249, for their efforts with the State Senate.
 State, excuse me, Texas State Senator Cesar Blanco through the passage of SB 1704 to erect state highway signage honoring Korean War Memorial veterans and five supports the highway signage project designating a segment of Patriot Freeway US 54 as a Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway.
 That's the resolution. So my motion is to approve as read. And also a big thanks to Representative Norma Chavez, who has been helping the Veterans Association. Mr. Flores, the president of the Korean War Association, and of course our Senator Blanco for all of their efforts. And so we're really honored to present this resolution forward and to help fund the highway signage.
 Second, and Mayor, I'd also like to thank Representative Hernandez for her work on this and bringing to council. I know I don't often talk about my family, but my grandfather was a prisoner of war and survivor of the Korean War. In fact, after his passing in 2018, he was honored on the National Memorial Day service. And so it's a real honor to be able to support this.
 to have this partially in my district. And as Representative Hernandez said, thank you to all of the veterans who served. Thank you for bringing this to us and allowing us to be a part of this. Thank you, Representative Danilo. And again, I wanna, my father did get to serve in Korea and it's a great honor to have you all here and bring back great memories from my father, which I lost about three years ago.
 So for you all to be here in front of me and bring back an incredible memory of my father that served in Korea, I thank you all and may God bless everyone. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. Do you want Ms. Chavez to say, would you like, would Ms. Chavez like to say something? No? Okay, thank you. Pardon me? There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve the resolution for item 15 on that motion, call for the vote.
 Mayor Pro Tem, you should be able to vote electronically. I should include two different things. So I'm going to sign out of Granicus at this point. Yes, sir. May I have your vote? I vote yes. Thank you. Representative Manello? Aye. Thank you. Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. We now return to page number two to the mayor's proclamation.
 Once again, once again, I thank all of you for your great efforts. Thank you. And thank you for the recognition on Saturday. Thank you. The next proclamation is Desert Lynx Women's Basketball Champions Day. I have it here, Mayor.
 Proclamation of the City of El Paso. Whereas Southwest Desert Lynx claimed the national title in their inaugural season in the Women's Basketball Development Association with an undefeated record of 13 wins and zero losses.
 The Southwest Desert Lynx is the first team to achieve this title with talent from El Paso. And whereas not only did they bring home the national championship, but also Lynx point guard 5'1", Janelle Perez, from Horizon High School, alumni, graduate, and player from Northwestern State University, was named league MVP and three-point shooting champion.
 Also, Coach Samantha Stukes was honored as the 2021 Women's Basketball Development Association Coach of the Year. And whereas Southwest Desert Lynx have developed and created opportunities for women wishing to further their basketball and professional careers, and currently having a professional player playing in Ireland, and one in Mexico, small business owners, military veteran, a nurse, mothers, and school district employees.
 And RAS Southwest Desert Links gives back to the community by hosting, participating, and volunteering in annual youth camps, school visits, food donation drives, and supporting local events around the city. And RAS, after defeating the Denver Dynasty in Dallas, Texas at the championship game, the Southwest Desert Links were titled the 2021 National Champions.
 Now therefore be a proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that January 19th, 2022 shall be known as the desert links women's basketball champions day signed by honorable mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations, ladies. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Paula Powell and I am actually affiliated with the desert links and I've had the pleasure of working with them over the past year.
 And let me tell you, these ladies have made history for a very long time. If you remember back in the day when the girls were playing with the boys in the gyms, these are the girls that were doing it. These are the girls that were doing it, and they got better because of it. They've been making history in El Paso for a long time, and they did it again in 2021 by winning the national championship.
 And you talk about professional player, the professional player that's playing in Ireland is my kid. And it would never have been possible without the support of this team back here. And the opportunities they are providing for the young ladies across El Paso,
 is something extraordinary and something that, you know, I dreamed about 20 years ago when I was working for Parks and Recreation, and they're making it happen. And the lady that's doing that is right behind me. I'm going to let her speak. Her name is Samantha Stooks. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. Thank you guys for having us. I just want to say it's been an honor to be the first women's sports team here in El Paso and to be able to bring back a championship to El Paso.
 means the world to me.
 I grew up here in El Paso, graduated from Andrus in 2007, and that's all we've wanted to do is put women on a platform to show them that El Paso has talent and the ability to represent everything here in the Southwest that we have. And in our inaugural season, the women behind me have put in so much work, sweat, tears, and through a pandemic at that. And we just really appreciate you guys taking the time
 to give us this honor. We want to represent El Paso at the highest of our abilities, and we intend to continue doing that this season in the WBA, which is a step above, and we're hoping to do that with plenty of returning faces, but
 I can't explain how much it means to not only myself, but all the women behind me to be able to open those doors for El Paso women's sports. And we hope to see it continue to climb and improve as the years go on. But again, we just thank you guys for giving us this opportunity to be here today. And we're so proud to represent the 9-1-5, Sun City, and to bring home this...
 Beauty right here. Thank you guys for that honor. We also brought the mayor a championship tee Championship hat. Thank you. Thank you at this time as Cruz Acosta will coordinate a couple of photos with council and the honorees Council if we can go ahead we're gonna take photograph with the proclamation folks and we're gonna start First with items 13 and 14 and 15 as they're already lined up in the back. So if we can go to the back, please. I
 In the floor you will have up to 10 minutes for debate and you may speak twice per item. Please refrain from side conversations while you're at the dais and the meeting is in session. For those joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion and a separate discussion requested by Council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, proposed revisions for the January 4th, January 19th meeting, page 2, item 2, request to excuse absence of the council members.
 That request is to excuse Representative Salcido. And then the other two items we've already. They've already been taken, yes sir. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem, thank you. Representative Arnello Hernandez. Yes. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 16. This is on page 6. Item 16 is discussion and action to authorize District 3 City Representative Cassandra Hernandez to attend council meetings by video conference more than one regular meeting week in a row on the meeting weeks of January 31, 2022, February 14, 2022, and February 28, 2022. Second. Third.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Anelo? Hernandez? Yes. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 the next item is number 17 and this is discussion in action on a resolution to appoint a member to the el paso water utilities public service board of trustees in the area of expertise of consumer or citizen advocacy as recommended by the el paso water utilities public service board selection committee i'd like to make a motion to postpone this i was passing a button it's not working sir thank you mayor at this time i'd like to appoint
 miss mary beth stevens to this position please second uh mayor i would like to make a motion to postpone this item so give the council the time to interview the applicants at this time second there is a motion to postpone mayor procter for how long um i'd say to the next council meeting but is are we able to do that
 Mayor Pro Temp, you can postpone as long as you believe council needs in order to interview the applicants. Okay. So I think until the next council meeting? For two weeks. Can you make it longer? Four weeks. Two motions. We'll take the cancellation first. The motion. The motion. Yeah. I guess for four weeks. What would be the next meeting? The next meeting is January. February 14th. Okay. Or 15th.
 so you want to postpone for four weeks mayor pro temp yes okay there is a motion made by mayor pope tim seconded by representative anelo to postpone the item for four weeks on that motion call for the vote representative anelo hernandez yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes representative the motion passes the item is postponed for four weeks
 The next item is number 18. This is an operational focus update, a council briefing on the status of the Public Safety Bond Capital Program. Good morning, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DiMiro, Assistant Director of Capital Improvement. IT, can you bring the presentation up? IT, can you bring the presentation up? IT, this is for item number 18.
 Just for point of clarification on item 17, the motion to delete so they could interview each will be every candidate will interview separately with every one of the city council members. Okay. So this is an update of the public safety bond program from our capital program side. Next slide please. So it's the mission of the El Paso Police Department to provide services with integrity and dedication to preserve life, to enforce the law, and to work in partnership with the community to enhance the quality of life in the city.
 The mission of the El Paso Fire Department is to provide emergency response, prevention, preparedness, and education to residents, businesses, and visitors to our city so that they can live safely and prosper in a hazard resilient community. So we're going to go through the basic funding overview for the bond as well as the cash flow and then the status of the capital programs. Next slide please. So as you all know in November 2019 the voters approved the issuance of $413 million
 dollars worth of general obligation bonds for public safety facilities, including police and fire department and motor vehicles and equipment. The purpose of the bond really is to have new public facilities to put police and fire resources in growing areas of the city, to perform major maintenance and renovation of aging facilities, to improve the working conditions for the city employees and to have a joint fire department, police department training academy to accommodate future classes and improve training efficiencies. Next slide, please.
 So the bond funding for police had two new regional command centers, the Eastside Regional Command Center, which is located at Pebble Hills and Tin Foster,
 The Central Regional Command Center, which the location has not yet been identified. There are some property acquisition discussions that are going on. It had the Public Safety Training Academy, the police headquarters, which is to be located at the Cohen Stadium property, and to renovate four regional command centers for a total of $221.9 million. Next slide, please.
 This is the cash flow through 2027. As you can see, once the Eastside Regional Command Center is completed, we will move to the renovation of the Northeast Regional Command Center, followed by Mission Valley, followed by the Westside Regional Command Center. The program will extend through 2027. Next slide, please. Bond funding for the Fire Department included three new fire stations, Station 36, which is here on the Westside, Station 38, which is located on the same campus as the Eastside Regional Command Center,
 Station the special teams consolidations station which is located on the Tillman property. It consolidates the operations of three existing fire stations, fire stations one, nine and 11. And I'm sorry, I said three fire stations. It'll also be a new station 40, the location for which has not yet been determined.
 There will be the public safety training facility and logistics center, a new fire department headquarters, both of which are located on the academy campus, and station renovations and vehicle replacement for a total of $191 million. Next slide, please. This is the spend rate for the fire department fire bond programs. You can see that we have in 2020 we assessed all the fire stations
 are initiating renovations this year. We are also going through and assessing others, or prioritizing other stations to continue renovations. Our goal is to do five renovations per year, and the duration of the renovations are about six months. We need to stagger the renovations only because we can't do without three fire stations or four fire stations all at the same time. Next slide, please.
 So the police program mentioned in the Eastside Regional Command Center, the design has been completed. Council approved the guaranteed maximum price for the construction manager at risk. And construction is to begin this winter. And as a matter of fact, groundbreaking is tomorrow. No, it's February the 3rd at the location. The Central Regional Command Center, I mentioned property acquisition is ongoing. The architect contract has been awarded. Design will be initiated following property acquisition. The police headquarters,
 The police headquarters as well as the academy campus is being delivered through a design build strategy. Under Texas statute, the city is required to procure the services of an owner's representative to help prepare the bridging documents and procurement documents for the design builder. We have successfully negotiated with the design builder for the head or the owner's representative for the headquarters and we'll hope to be bringing that to council at the next council meeting.
 The police academy, we have also selected our owner's representative and have begun programming with both the police and the fire department. And as I mentioned, the command center renovations are going to be initiated following completion of the east side regional command. We are currently assessing the needs of the northeast regional command so that we're ready to begin design as soon as we're through with the east side regional command center. Next slide, please.
 Eastside Regional Command Center is at Tim Foster in Pebble Hills. It's an approximately nine-acre parcel. The facility itself will be about 41,000 square feet.
 Again, the fire station 38 is located on, is co-located on the site. The amenities for the command center include a gymnasium, outdoor running track, a fueling station, which will be shared by all city vehicles, light vehicle maintenance facilities, secure fleet and personal vehicle parking, suspect processing, interrogation and detention cells, reporting areas, and public art memorializing the fallen officers. Next slide, please.
 This is a rendering of the front, the top two pictures of the front of the building, and then the lower two are the side and the back of the building. Next slide, please.
 This is an interior or a site plan. You see Fire Station 38 is located in the upper left hand corner. The actual fire command center is outlined in gray and then shared parking for both the police and fire department. And this is a hard to see rendering of the interior. It's a sustainable design. It meets Green Globe 2 requirements. And as you know, Green Globes is a practical approach to green buildings.
 Two globes indicates a significant achievement in resource efficiency. Next slide. These are just the categories and points you can get for green globe. Next slide, please.
 So a sustainable design element is a planned solar canopy over a portion of the secure parking via a power purchasing agreement, low-flow bathroom fixtures, natural lighting throughout the building, low VOC building materials, on-site stormwater management, indoor-outdoor recreation amenities, Xeriscape native plantings and drip irrigation, energy-efficient HVAC and appliances, LED lighting, and an energy-efficient building envelope. Next slide, please.
 The joint public safety academy is located approximately at Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and officer Andrew Barsena Drive. It's in District 4. As I mentioned, the campus will include the police academy, fire academy and logistics center, fire department headquarters for a total of $79.1 million. It is being delivered via design bill. Next slide, please. This is the proposed location of the academy.
 The city identified and evaluated a number of properties and selected a property that offers an opportunity to conserve open space while ensuring trail amenities are not impacted.
 It's accessible for major transportation thoroughfares, and it has available utility and stormwater infrastructure. The land is, the city has purchased 300 acres for the actual academy itself, of which the academy proper will occupy approximately 50 to 60 acres of that parcel. So the remaining acreage around of that 300 will be open space. In addition, next slide please.
 The city has an agreement with the El Paso Water Utility to place a conservation covenant and plans to place a conservation easement on surrounding 1,200 acres, giving us a total of about 1,500 acres total, with about 1,400 of that being dedicated open space. The parking areas for the academy can be used by trail users during non-business hours. The location offers some security presence near trailheads and open space.
 and we're maximizing the QOL and public safety bond to purchase the open space. Next slide, please. The location, as I mentioned, is close to Trailheads, the Lazy Cow Trailhead and the Roundhouse Trailhead. Next slide, please. Next slide.
 The city appreciates and understands the sensitivity of building in this area. We plan to have contextualized architecture with materials that reflect and blend in with the Franklin Mountains, forms that are sensitive to the site conditions, building composition that respects views, access to trails, existing desert flora, and arroyos, and a design that capitalizes on orientation and passive sustainable design along with LED green globes requirements. Next slide.
 Materials and forms, as I mentioned, they'll blend in with the Franklin Mountains. It will be stone masonry construction methods that incorporate natural materials that are complementary of desert colors and forms that are sensitive to site conditions, such as lower-level massing and open facades to frame views. Next slide, please. The building composition that frames and allows for unobstructed views, design respects and works with the existing grades, and is a biophilic design incorporating desert landscaping into the architecture and the site. Next slide, please.
 This is a sample of a training academy. The amenities that we anticipate being located at the academy include fire training props, an indoor shooting range, classrooms, fitness gym, simulation room, police tactical facility, mock courtroom, emergency vehicle training area, and academies co-located with the fire department headquarters and fire logistics and maintenance center. Next slide, please.
 So the schedule for the Academy programming, it started in August of 21. It'll be concluded in February of 22. The design builder selection will be from August of 22 to November of 2022. And we anticipate beginning, being able to begin design in November of 2022 with completion of construction by 2025. Next slide, please. Shifting gears to the fire program, fire station 36, which is the rendering you see at the top, is construction is to begin
 This week with groundbreaking and be completed in late 23. Fire Station 38, we are just starting the design and we're expected to be completed the design in the fall with construction taking place in the winter or early 24. The special team station, the design is underway. We expect it to be completed in the fall with construction in 2023 to early 25. And then Fire Station 40 is in the future between 2027 and 2029. Next slide, please.
 Fire Station 36 is located at 1960 North Reston Drive. It is adjacent to the Providence Hospital Trans Mountain Campus and its total budget is $11.3 million. Next slide please. This is just some some sketches that were done during the the conceptual planning and then the site layout for that the final site layout for the fire station. Next slide please.
 These are exterior finishes, the front of the building, the side of the building facing Ressler, again, side of the front of the building. And we did have a covenant within the land that the hospital had approval over the architectural finishes of the exterior of the building. And so we worked with the hospital to select materials that blended in with the hospital campus itself as so as not to contrast. Next slide.
 The station itself is approximately 12,000 square feet. It is a two-story station. It has a community room, three apparatus bays, and it's designed with firefighter health and safety in mind and the segregation of hot, cold, and warm zones. It does have indoor and outdoor recreation space, and it also meets Green Globe II requirements. Next slide. These are the listing, very, very similar to the other
 sustainable elements in the east side regional command center in addition we are installing vital bio led lights to limit the the spread of staff infections that are common in showers and macronaries next slide please so the fire department headquarters the programming is underway projects being completed design build delivery the owner's rep is met with the fire department to define requirements so that bridging documents can be developed and the contract awarded
 The training facility and logistics center, it is on the same timeframe and pending activities. Next slide. Station renovations. I mentioned building assessments have been completed. Design has been completed for Fire Station 10, 19, 20, 21, 25, and 26.
 Construction of Fire Station 10 and 19 are in bidding. Construction of these stations will be in the early spring. Construction of Fire Station 20 began in December of 2021, and construction of Fire Station 21, 25, and 26 will begin in the summer of 22. Designs for the next five stations are also beginning this month. Next slide, please.
 These are the renovations that are taking place and station 5 and 37. Both of those stations had a bay a bay-wide emissions control system that was proved to not be very functional so we upgraded the apparatus vehicle exhaust to be a point of capture system where the it is the the connections are made directly to the exhaust of the trucks. Fire station 10 we are replacing uh concrete apparatus ingress and egress for landscaping doing interior lighting interior renovations throughout
 and construction of a minor addition to relocate showers and locker rooms from restroom, improving privacy and functionality. Fire station 19, we're adding a fire suppression system, smoke and CO2 monitors, landscaping, interior finishes, and energy efficient lighting. Fire station 20, we're converting an unenclosed existing emergency response vehicle bay to an enclosed bay for a larger fire apparatus. And we will be doing additional minor renovations in the future. Next slide, please.
 This is fire station on the left is fire station 20. We're enclosing the bay where the rescue vehicle is is parked fire station 35 and 37. This is just piping. That's the middle picture piping related to the exhaust system and the fire station 26. We're going to be replacing the windows with energy efficient windows and upgrading the HVAC and finishes. Next slide, please.
 Other fire station renovations, fire station 21, we're going to replace the concrete apparatus bay, apparatus ingress and egress, resurface staff parking, install a security gate, and do interior remodeling to separate women's sleeping quarters from men's sleeping quarters and also provide the hot, warm, and cold zones. Fire station 25, we're going to replace and install fire alarm, fire suppression systems, upgrade electrical systems, upgrade doors and finishes, and demolish and reinstall concrete driveways.
 and fire station 26 we're going to be replacing exterior windows upgrading the lighting and interior finishes and replacing the hvac next slide please fire station 21 i mentioned replacing the ingress and egress drive uh the fire central fire station will be relocated to house functions at fs at the central station one fire station nine and fire station eleven and that is being that will be located at the tillman property next next slide please
 New fire facilities, the headquarters, it's designed and constructed a new fire department headquarters. The academy and materials logistics located again with HQ and with the police training academy. And that's designing and constructing a new vehicle maintenance and logistics center and training academy. And then the special unit station which the Tillman building will be demolished and a new facility to consolidate stations 1, 9 and 11. Next slide please.
 Future new projects FS 38 is the design and construction of a new fire station at the eastside regional command center and fire station 40 which will be with program for 27 to 29 and then a number of station renovations and these will be prioritized based on the building assessment needs and or urgent needs of the fire department. Next slide please. And that is my presentation. Does anybody have any questions? Thank you Mayor. Thank you again Mr. Demira for a very informative
 I think it's really great to sort of see the updates here and for the community to see the kind of updates and the kind of work that we're doing on this voter approved bond initiative from 2019. It looks like we're making a lot of progress. It looks like we're actually upholding our promise to the voters to get these projects done and started in a timely manner. And that should bring a lot of faith and trust to this community about what this council and what this organization can do when voters
 uh... give us the ability to to move this community forward through a voter approved bond initiative uh... i did have a couple questions and comments relating towards a number of the projects there one as it relates towards the uh...
 the joint training and police fire facility. Really great to sort of see the initial design ideas. I understand that that's more of a sort of conceptual sort of idea about where staff is thinking about in terms of the design. I think it's absolutely appropriate with 1,200 acres of open space surrounding it in addition to the Franklin Mountain State Park, the largest urban state park.
 that the design is reflective of the surrounding area and really makes an effort to blend in. I think that's absolutely appropriate and I think it's really great. I just think that looking at the Northeast and how that area is situated, passive solar design should really be something I think that should be considered and thought about.
 not just necessarily the building materials, but very much how the buildings are oriented in relation to the sun and in relation towards the mountains. We can see examples of passive solar, for example, with a
 El Paso High School. Henry Trust when he designed El Paso High School back in 1914 when it was constructed. You know, if anybody looks at it, the football field at El Paso High School is actually shaded from the afternoon sun by the building, by the school building itself. And that was a very clear example of passive solar design where you use building
 building design to help shade you know either to cool down buildings or to heat them up and with the sun that comes in early in the morning on the northeast
 and how the sun sets behind the Franklin Mountains late in the afternoon. Not the representative for the northeast, but I know that the mountains play a big part of that area. So I think the passive solar design should just be something thought about as it relates towards that project as it moves along. But what I'm looking at and hearing about, I think, is really, really exciting.
 it's very appropriate and spot on with what staff is looking at and thinking about in terms of design as well as functionality and that leads me to my next question i saw that stations 21 they're looking at doing a renovation to separate the the men's and women's sleeping quarters can you talk a little bit more about that
 So right now all the stations have, most of the stations, as you say, have combined sleeping quarters. And it's the desire of the fire department to separate the sleeping quarters as well as separate the restrooms. Because right now most of the stations, the older ones in particular, are built for a male-dominated workforce. And the fire department is having more and more females join the force to fight the fires.
 Do you know on Fire Station 36 what the design is currently being proposed for the sleeping quarters? It is segregated sleeping quarters. All right. Are you able to confirm with that? Because I feel that I had a meeting and an update about that. And it was stated that they wouldn't be segregated. So if you might be able to touch base and send me the design that shows that I'd be very appreciative.
 I can do that. Thank you. Yeah, trust but verify. So I know that and the reason why I ask about that is that I had a really great tour last year of the Ojo de Agua fire station. The number of it escapes my mind, but it was very thorough.
 and had a great opportunity to talk to the firefighters out there. They helped me understand a little bit more of the nuance there that relates towards these fire stations, especially relates towards their accommodations. And so I just wanted to follow up with that. I was also curious to do you have an idea about when some of those other fire stations are going to be programmed for some of their renovations? I know that there's some that, you know,
 You know, we're doing it on a needs assessment. Some have been built in the 90s, some have been built in the 50s. I'm just kind of curious there. DIRECTOR HERSEY- We have prioritized the list. And I did I did not bring it with me at this point. But we have made a priority list including cost estimates for each to ensure that there's funding available to do what we need to do at each one of the stations. But I can get that that priority list to you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Okay. Yeah. Because you know it's Fire Station 27. I don't know if that was listed there.
 i know that the some of the folks that were concerned i think it was built back in 1992 or 93 and there hasn't been any significant updates and i know too for a fact too that there's other fire stations that were probably built in the 80s 70s and before that haven't received any significant updates either so just curious on behalf of that station to understand where they are on the list
 But otherwise, this is really, really great news. I think that when the voters voted to invest in public safety and invest in our community, we have really risen up to that challenge and are performing and bringing these out. And I look forward to the groundbreaking for Fire Station 36 this week as well. So thank you again for all your hard work. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Representative Hernandez?
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Jamerrill, thank you for the presentation. Just two quick questions for you. Maybe they have long-winded responses, but the methodology that was selected to choose which fire stations and which command centers were selected first, do you have a simple response for that, what the methodology was to choose those?
 So the original methodology was to construct Eastside Regional Command Center and then go to the Pebble Hills Command Center, moving the resources at Pebble Hills into the Eastside Regional Command Center. At the request of the fire department, because the condition of the Northeast Regional Command Center, as well as flooding during severe storms, they requested that we move up Northeast Regional Command.
 right after the Eastside Regional Command Center. So that was the intent of doing it. The Westside Command Center was going to be last because it is the newest. Okay, thank you for that simple response. And it definitely helps me convey to voters what the decisions were of the city. Now, for new fire stations that will be built with like residential areas already in existence,
 Is there any technology that's going to be utilized to take account for like the new traffic signals, how to stop those so that you can limit the noise coming out of the fire stations? I don't know if that's available. I'm just concerned that residents might be just surprised that there's going to be a new fire station next to their home that they just bought. And it does come with noise. So I'm just curious if there's anything that we can do to mitigate those concerns.
 Certainly. The fire station's stoplight preemption is built into those so that they will be able to get in and out. And we certainly look to orient the buildings such as to minimize the noise impacts to the surrounding communities. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. DeMuro. Mayor Pro Tem, we need you on the dais, sir, so we won't lose a quorum. Thank you. You said the stoplight prevention?
 Preemption. So when a fire, when a response vehicle needs to go, they can preempt the light in their direction so that all other traffic stops. Okay. So that's going to be incorporated at the new fire stations? Yes. Now, okay. No, that answers my question. And then what are we doing to at least present to the public that
 I want to ask you about where we're at with the bonds outside of these presentations because as we are starting to talk about future bonds, we need to convey to the public the progress here. So is there any any advertisements the city is doing just to make sure that the public knows that we're working diligently and rolling out these these projects. The outreach that we've done for the new projects has been community meetings themselves so that we're
 a community meeting to say here's the status of the bond program. I'd be happy to do that in any of your district meetings just to make sure. I think too we may want to incorporate it into any outreach we do for the for the bond for 2022 because we can show that we've made significant progress on a bond that the voters have already passed.
 Okay. Representative Hernandez, San Rodrigo City Engineer. You know, the discussions with the city manager, he's really asked us to look at a campaign to really highlight the locations of these fire stations and the public safety wrong facilities in a way that highlights and be a signage as an opportunity for the community to see the work that's being done at all these locations. So we're going to be rolling out a branding program to highlight the work on each one of these sites that's being worked on.
 And then I like the idea of really setting up just a PR campaign and having public meetings to share this great story that we have with the Public Safety Bond. That's great feedback that we can take back and work with the BIO office on as well.
 No I really like the branding idea. I know the school districts are really great at that. I can go to any school and see a whole list of the improvements and the total budget and they'll have you know wooden frames and you know the pretty sturdy big big frames visible from the street. And so they do a good job at conveying that. I think that it should be no different from this city because ultimately voters want to see what they're what they're getting for their money. But. Representative.
 Representative Hernandez, we're on the same page. I actually just assigned that to Sam a week or so ago with regard to the signage. I know that they've done a lot of good work in the Capital Improvements Department.
 There was a lot of work that needed to be done there, and now they've just really churned out the projects. And I think there was a news update the other day that you and the Mayor Pro Tem were involved in in terms of the interview, and that was an opportunity to kinda highlight the fact that we've completed over 400 streets over the last four or five years.
 with the decisions that this council's made, and then almost 200 projects in general, capital projects that include a lot of quality of life projects. So there's been quite a bit of projects completed. We gave that update in December in terms of all of those. We committed to give updates on public safety
 bond the bond package from 2019 and so that's what this is about i think your your thoughts are spot on and so on the new projects for the the police uh 2019 bond proposal that was passed there'll be signage like you're referring to and then we'll add some of the other things that you mentioned with regard to all the projects that have been completed and and and i think that a communication director wants to add some comments as well go ahead laura
 Yes, this is Laura Cruz Acosta for the record. Just to add to the conversation that we have already started that conversation that Sam mentioned as well as the city manager. We also have a website specifically dedicated to the bond project and so we will expand on that and build even greater in terms of the promotion for this project, for all the projects. Great. I'm happy to hear about the progress.
 you all would be on the ball on that. So thank you for your efforts. Really great presentation, really great news for the community, a community that is really it's growing and as painful as painful as orange cones and construction may look, it definitely is a sign of progress. So thank you all for your hard work.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. While we were answering questions I got a message from my project manager that Fire Station 36 does not have segregated sleeping quarters it does have segregated restroom and locker room facilities. Mayor Pro Tem. Mayor Pro Tem. Okay thanks. First to piggyback on Representative Hernandez
 Yeah, I do think we need to be as proactive as we can and I do think that a website is good, but I think making sure that there's some identifiable branding that can be placed on the locations of these sites.
 whether that is, you know, yard signs, A-frames, posters, anything that during a construction site somebody can drive by one of these public safety projects and see an identifiable branding, identifiable design that says, hey, this is one of the projects that are being paid for with your money, that are being paid for by you voting to invest in El Paso.
 outside of just a website as well and i know that we're doing that as well so um so in in terms of fire station 36 i yeah i guess i guess i was correct i just again i don't know where we are with the design i don't know if it's cmr or not i just have heard from a number of of
 of the personnel in the firefighters department that that non segregated sleeping quarters are not preferable and that segregated sleeping quarters are preferable and i know that we're in fact going in decades later to actually go and segregate the sleeping quarters of facilities across the city so i just i know that fire station 36 the groundbreaking is this week but i i hope that don't know what's possible to really go and look at that and maybe talk to the personnel and
 in the firefighters department to understand why why they're what would they would really prefer because we can build ultimately at the end of the day we're building it for the users the users are the firefighters and it seems that there's a clear preference to have segregated sleeping quarters. We will certainly look into that percentage. Thank you.
 Mayor Pro Tem, also I know that Sam and Jerry both are on the line. Several years ago that was something that was mentioned to us and we've been working on that ever since to work on that segregated process for men and women. And I think your points are well received in that. I think when these new facilities that need to be taken into consideration as well and
 We hear you. Yeah. Yeah, we're building a new one and we know that segregated. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you for those comments No problem. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, man Thank you mayor We go to slide 14, please. So mr. DeMuro on slide 14 it pretty much states um
 the location Martin Luther King Jr. and officer Andrew Barsena drive on the very top of the location and I just want to be clear as the egress and ingress is going to be through Martin Luther King and probably As a safe route or I'm not sure the right word the officer Andrew Barsena Drive would be Access to that we intend to make inverse and egress off of Martin Luther King and
 we have not done the detailed site plan to determine whether we needed additional egress and ingress off of andrew barcelon that there has been some expression by the residents in the area that we do not have access from andrew bar center that way emergency vehicles particularly fire vehicles that are in need of service do not need to traverse through the residents yeah because if
 Coming in and going out through it. I'll try and do by Sena That's North Hills. It's West North Hills. And so those residents are really not gonna like that and I Representative not this is comment Knowing a lot of family members and other people that reside near fire stations and
 IN A WAY, IT'S A VERY GOOD THING. THEY GET USED TO THE FACT THAT THEY'RE THERE AT 2 O'CLOCK IN THE MORNING. THEY DO HEAR THEIR SIREN, BUT THEY GO RIGHT BACK TO SLEEP. AND IT'S A COMFORTING SOUND TO THEM TO LET THEM KNOW THAT A FIRE STATION IS SO CLOSE TO THEIR HOUSE OR THE POLICE STATION AS WELL. ALSO ON SLIDE 15, PLEASE, SIR. OKAY. IDENTIFIED AND EVALUATED NUMBER OF PROPERTIES. CAN YOU, MR. JEMERA, TELL US WHAT OTHER PROPERTIES WERE EVALUATED AND IDENTIFIED?
 Representative Molinar that presentation was provided to City Council in executive session where we looked at multiple properties including city properties as well as some properties that were owned by a Pasadena Independent School District. I can certainly follow up with you a separate meeting and share with you those specific locations if you want to see those details. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Okay we're just trying to find out the facts here. Thank you very much. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Molinar and with that Ms. Prine.
 Yes sir that brings us to the next operational focus update on item number 19 on public safety police and fire staffing and recruitment. So there were some questions that were raised at different meetings and council wanted more feedback excuse me wanted more of an update on these projects and an opportunity or initiatives rather an opportunity to have a dialogue and to again get updated on what we've been doing. This presentation is very lengthy it's got
 it's got a lot of information in there we this won't be the last one that we do so we're going to come back we're going to sort it and change it up so it's um because i think i've heard the council loud and clear about you know messages being more simple more concise and strong messaging and so this is just going to be kind of a litany of a lot of things that have been done but i think that we're going to come back and re-remessage it reapportion the data because there's a lot of data
 so that you can be able to share this with your constituents and on your district websites and things of that nature. But just keep in mind, there's a lot of information here. We do have one of the individuals who's presenting virtually that does have COVID. So please bear with us, you know, in terms of some of the folks are not feeling well. So I just wanted to just give you a heads up about that as well. So I'll turn it over to the presenters. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning, Mayor and Councilor Dion Mack, Deputy City Manager for Public Safety. Next slide, please. Good morning, Ms. Mack. Good morning. It's so appropriate that we're following on the presentation regarding our public safety bond, $413 million. You know, it certainly shows the ongoing investment that this council has been willing to bring forth in terms of supporting our public safety teams. You know, as you will recall, when we went through that bond,
 on the majority of what we're seeing there is replacement of existing. Replacement of existing facilities that had reached the end of their useful life. And it's just one of the ways that I think this council and leadership and the community have shown that it's willing to invest in our public safety teams and ensuring that we have the staffing and the equipment that is needed for us to be successful in the work that we're doing.
 You know, if we start to look at the progress that we've made, you've seen several presentations in terms of the investment in public safety. We talked about it during our strategic planning session in terms of continuing to have public safety be at the forefront of how we look at our city and what's important in terms of investment.
 We certainly saw during COVID that those investments made a huge difference for us. You'll be hearing from the teams talk about, you know, the things that they've done to ensure that our staffing could meet the needs throughout the community. Had those investments not been made in staff and equipment, we certainly wouldn't have been as positioned to be able to respond to this ongoing crisis that we have in our community.
 We will be trying to give you a brief update on some of the things that you asked us during the strategic planning session, which I thought was very successful and really gave us an opportunity to ask some questions of ourselves in terms of where we're going. But also to just give you an update on how the teams have really been resilient and have pivoted during this COVID pandemic.
 pandemic to really be able to address our community needs, but also continue to move our departments forward to be able to serve our needs when we arrive post pandemic.
 I just want to take an opportunity to just thank the teams in general, as we know that it's our budgets are primarily people. It's been our public safety teams and all of our city staff who have really stepped up. We saw the numbers yesterday where our staffing is being hit across the board, not only with COVID, but also with just vacancies.
 And I think we understand, as you see week after week, the needs for the community has not diminished in any way. And I think the men and women of our teams and our communities, whether it's public safety or any other department, continue to step up and serve to the best of our ability with the resources that have been made available. And I think our ability to be resilient is really showing and shining through, and you'll see that in the slides moving forward. Next slide, please.
 And this is just a reminder of how we talked about the investment and we like to keep these messages front of mind for people. As you saw in previous budget presentations, these are the numbers. We know that these are just ways that we're going to continue to improve our departments as well as looking at any type of policy changes or...
 changes anything that we can do to continue to make our departments more effective and efficient our city manager has been focused on doing his entire tenure here with our city i'm going to hand it over to uh chief d'agostino for a presentation on the fire department uh and the units that he oversees and then he will be followed by uh assistant chief for c is to talk about the police department thank you and good morning thank you next slide please good morning
 Good morning, sir. So this is today's presentation. Next slide, please. So today, Chief DiAgostino, for the record, we'll be talking about some of the diverse opportunities and results that the fire department has seen. You know, it's not just firefighting and medic crews that we're focusing on. We have a lot of different opportunities for the fire department.
 for our employees. We're gonna talk about our collaborations and partnerships specifically with public health and animal services. We're gonna talk about our fire training academies, the progress we're seeing there and our commitment to training excellence. And then we'll get into our public safety communicator recruitments, academies and what we're doing over there to assist with the program. Next slide, please.
 So again, I just I just wanted to highlight that that our most valuable investment ever is in our people and we are committed to that. And I think the city's proven that over the last few years. Next slide please. This is highlighting some of the programs that are
 specific to the fire department. So it's not just emergency response. We've got our professional standards, which is not only looking at our discipline, but it also reviews all of our positive information that we do get. And it's part of our award program. We've got our health and safety program, which this is on not just public health and safety, but on firefighter health and safety. We have, of course, our emergency response units. Professional development is our training program and the numerous hours we have to provide to them.
 Our Office of Emergency Management, as you know, they do a wide
 range of activities. And then we have our special teams, our special operations unit, which covers anything from hazmats to water rescue, our mountain rescues that we're always seeing, and even our ARF units, which is our airport rescue and firefighting units at the airport. Community health. Community health is new. We brought that out through our efficiencies and our partnerships and collaboration. A lot of that comes in with our mobile integrated health teams. Those are some of the teams we've talked about that are actually going out.
 and providing testing and vaccines within our community. So whether they're at centers for the elderly or living facilities, long-term living facilities, or actually going to the in-bounds homes and performing the test or vaccinations there, this is the teams where that comes. Community risk reduction was part of the fire marshals. We have actually separated them into their own program
 because it's taken on such a new investment. And we'll talk about that later in our commitment to our smoke detector installations, as well as our hands-only CPR and numerous other projects that we're working on. And our fire marshals, they are our arson investigators and our inspectors, which is looking at both new buildings and existing and making sure they're meeting all the fire codes. Next slide, please.
 So while COVID has slowed our abilities, we still continue to provide these services. So smoke alarm installations, home evacuation plans, and our newest, our child passenger safety car installations and inspections. That's our newest program. They are successful. We're not reaching the numbers we were a couple of years ago because we've had the limited access into people's homes during this COVID. But it's alive and well. We're still working with the public. We're still doing the outreach we can. And we continue to update our website so people know where they can get these services.
 Next slide please. On this slide right here I want to apologize. This is an this is an older slide. We are currently.
 over 370,000 vaccinations is what we've provided. That includes over 63,000 for flu and well over 300,000 for COVID specific. And we've provided well over 170,000 tests as well to our community. So this is part of our partnership with public health, our mobile integrated health teams that I've talked about, our community health program. This is our immunizations for health program and we'll get into it within more slides in more detail. Next slide, please.
 So right here, this slide is highlighting our maintenance repair and our continued investment in our own facilities and in ourselves. And so when we look at this, we can see where we've saved over $460,000. That came across by being able to use Lean Six Sigma ideas and be able to review our process early on.
 communications with city manager in our fire crews. He was, it was pointed out that our fire crews take pride in the stations they live in. We got to remember they spent a third of their life in these firehouses. So it's their second home. It truly is. And so they're always trying to update them and paint them and do little details to make it more more comfortable for them as they go. City manager said, you know, we need to address that we can't. And that is true. So we have invested in, we started as a pilot, but we now have a crew of,
 a maintenance crew that actually goes out and helps these firefighters perform those little basic duties outside of normal maintenance. And so we've really been able to expand on that, that partnership, that new program has really paid off in benefits. That's what we're looking at these savings from.
 And it's also helped not just the fire department specifically, but animal services and public health. They're the ones who went out and set up the gates, the pens for animal services for our outdoor kennels areas. Some of our in the lower valley as well. And so they've done a lot of things that helps that project, those programs thrive. For public health, they're actually going out and they've helped and assisted with building up and setting up.
 the vaccination sites themselves or the new clinics. They were crucial in getting those implemented and getting things laid out. So that's a welcome improvement to the department that's seen in the last few years. Highlighting the restroom additions after the last presentation, those additions is to answer the separation issues that we did need. You know, we didn't have, you know, years ago we didn't,
 recent times we didn't have all facilities that had both male and female facilities this is what we're highlighting here as we're making that move and that investment in the right direction the 2.7 million annual investments for fire apparatus and ambulances that that's continued support we continue to get apparatus you know when we look at what it was when we talk about our maintenance program years ago we look at what it was there where we actually had tires coming off the trucks as they were rolling down the street that that
 This investment is answering those issues that we had. So we're addressing the neglect that came over years. Next slide. So this slide is actually highlighting the benefit of partnering the El Paso Fire Department with Department of Public Health and Animal Services. This partnership is a force multiplier.
 It allows us to use all of our resources to affect the common good. And so looking at that before the fire department and animal services joined together, there was a lot of issues with cleanliness, sanitation of the facility. There was some issues with the drug, drug storage, maintenance and upkeep and disease. Disease was a very big issue within the community.
 the department. And so what FIRE did is we took what we've done for numerous years, and we've taken what we've perfected on and worked on, and it's our protocols. And so we have a very systematic approach to how we do things. We break it down into our protocol manuals. And so what we did is we took that and we shared it with
 animal services. And so we help them create what they needed to run their operations. And that's everything from medical procedures to daily cleaning and storage of drugs, as well as inventory and ordering. So that's just a couple of the highlights there for animal services.
 Um, with that, we've partnered up and we, when I talked about the force multiplier, we actually have chip readers, as you've all heard in all of our fire stations. What that allows, it allows our community members who find a lost pet to help our four-legged friends find their home.
 find where they came from so they can keep them out of the shelter and get them back to their owner as soon as possible and it keeps less of a burden on the shelter but it's also less strain on that the poor animal and it helps the community help each other and so by putting those in all the fire stations as we know those fire stations are located strategically across the city it allows every neighborhood an opportunity to go somewhere close to get those chips read it read we also partner up for numerous other activities with them as well the health department
 As you've known, we've talked about it a lot the last couple of years. COVID-19, it was a force multiplier. It allows us to use the resources the fire department has, along with public health. It really allows us to expand the services we provide and ramp up the staffing that's needed and the expertise that's needed. And so...
 Public health is looking at how to prevent people from, you know, public health, keeping them healthy and safe so they don't have to rely on a 911 system. The fire department historically has been focusing on responding on an emergency nature and making emergency transports to our hospital facilities. By combining these two, we're able to have a positive effect with the creation of the new mobile integrated health teams
 the unification of forces between public health and fire, we're able to now provide those services in a proactive manner rather than a reactive manner. And that's the effect we're trying to have on the community. Next slide, please. So looking here, this is going back to the microchip readers that I was talking about, and it really does keep...
 It does help. I've seen so many successful stories where people reach out to the fire station. They have the number looked up, and they're able to reunite those pets without them ever having to enter the system. And that's a positive for our animals in our community.
 Again, I want to talk about some of the other collaboration efforts, the sanitation, the sanitation procedures, how they go about their daily cleaning, that that has really helped with disease within the shelter. And a biggest part that the fire department really focuses on is standardization. So whether you're working on a pumper truck on the east side of town or the west side
 Our compartments are similar, and you'll find the tools in the specific compartment. Our bags are set up the same. So our medical bags, you know if you grab the green bag, you know what you're carrying, you know what goes in there. The stock's the same. What that allows it to do, it allows crews to be comfortable wherever they're at. It allows them to grab that, to get a piece of equipment and realize that it's going to be stocked in the same manner as the other. That standardization really helps with your efficiencies and successes. Next slide, please.
 So we've also talked about a lot of our adoption events that we've held at fire stations, as well as our community smoke detector microchip campaign. So prior to COVID, we were doing a lot. We were on Martin Luther King Day. We would go out together, and it wasn't just that day. We'd do it a couple of times a year. And so we'd actually hit the streets, and we'd do not just smoke detectors door to door, but we'd also see if they needed their pet microchip.
 So that partnership really, really helped with the community with getting it. We'd get good involvement, good turnout at the parks, and that was a positive, and we look forward to getting back to that. We also have our Firefighters and Furry Companions calendar and numerous other activities that we do trying to get the message out, trying to help get these pets adopted as soon as possible. Next slide, please. So...
 public health. I mean, we have talked about this for a couple of years now. There is just so much things that we have done together and that we partnered to help the community get through COVID. Like I talked about over the 370,000 vaccines between, um, COVID vaccines and, and, uh,
 Flu shots, I mean, that's critical to the community, keep keeping the community safe. The being able to ramp up our testing sites, being able to amplify those services, partnering with not just animal, I mean, not just public health and fire department, but it's all city departments.
 and community members and organizations across the city has really helped us to get where we are. When we see our high vaccination sites, that's the support that this gets us. While we've done over 370,000 vaccinations as a city, there's a lot more that's been done in this community and it takes the whole village to say to get that done.
 Our power flu events have been very successful. When we look at our flu vaccinations from a couple years ago to what we saw last year, that's the huge increase. When you're looking at 60,000 flu vaccines, that is an incredible feat and we hope to continue that partnership long from now. Our mobile infrared team that I talked about for home vaccinations and testing, that's just the start. That is our community paramedicine program. That's helping people find the resources before they have the emergency.
 So we look at that and, you know, this is something we've been researching for years with the support of you all and city management with the efficiency we found through LSS and everything else we're doing within the fire service and in all the departments combined. We're able to provide this. So now we have these teams and it's about going out and connecting the people with their social services prior to needing help. We look at it and we started off by looking at who our frequent flyers are and we realized and
 Flyers, frequent callers. And so we look at who called 911 and how many times. And we had people who were utilizing the 911 system over 50 times a year. You know, 911 is for emergency services, and we understand that. It shouldn't be for our basic day-to-day health care. And that's what we're trying to do with these teams, and that's what it's bringing to the community, is being able to connect them with the resources they need.
 Our COVID-19 hotline, we can talk about how the integration of these two departments really helped out in the fact that we had one of our 911 shift managers actually take over the COVID hotline numbers when we were having numerous issues when it was at the height of the season last year and we saw those delays. So she set up the same processes and improvements that I'll talk about shortly that we've made in 911 over the years. She set those up within that call center to help with the public. Next slide, please.
 So, fire recruitment. I believe we have a video embedded here. Can we get the video? Okay.
 The El Paso Police Department is now hiring. We're looking for outstanding men and women who are looking for a challenging and rewarding career in law enforcement. The El Paso Police Department is at the forefront of fighting crime. If you are looking to serve your community with endless career opportunities, great benefits, then we want to talk to you. For an El Paso police officer, it's not a duty, it's an honor that we are proud to dedicate and to serve.
 Okay so what we're focusing on here is the recruitment for the El Paso Fire Department. Next slide please. Yeah we're going to cross train them. Yes so getting into our most recent academies class class 98 and 99 worked off of the same list. We had over 16 almost 1700 applicants enrolled.
 We started 45 firefighter trainees in May of last year, and in November we graduated 41. So it was a very successful academy. We used the same list for Class 99, where we started 48. We still have 30 in the class, and they'll be graduating here in the next few weeks. We look forward to that added addition to the fire department. Next slide. Current staffing and our projections. So as you can see, we're authorized currently at 945.
 We're looking at we have 45 vacancies within uniform positions. And like I did talk about, we do have the 30 who are about to graduate. So that's really going to help those numbers. We are seeing an increase over the next couple of years. Those are those were planned in. Those were talked about during the public safety bond election. Those are those are positions needed so we can staff these new facilities that will be standing up to the station, the companies at those stations. Next slide, please.
 So planned fire cutters, we talked about we got the class graduating in a couple weeks on February 11th of 30 firefighters. We're starting another one the end of this month of 35. And the next one will be starting in August 15th with another 35. That was originally slated and approved to start with the 70 firefighters up front. But with the COVID numbers and the limited space we have at our academy, we've cut that class in half.
 The other ones are already pre-lined. We offered them other positions within the city so that way they're still employed. We can start training them in now, but their actual academy won't start till August 15th. Next slide, please.
 So some of the professional certifications is required to be a firefighter. The Texas Commission of Fire Protection requires structural firefighting. You know, that's classroom and practical skills and field inshift hours. Our academy right now is around six and a half months long. They also have to get their state health services natural registry EMT, which is emergency medical technician. And that includes numerous hours of classroom skills, clinical hours within hospitals and field internship.
 hours actually working on an ambulance here locally next slide please again some of the the requirements it takes to be a firefighter we talked about that emt at the national level the
 They have to be able to complete a one and a half mile run in 12 minutes or less. The fire ground performance evaluation is an actual evaluation where they do skills that are common in a fire ground situation. So they will be in full PPE, as you see in this picture, with on air. And they'll have to do several operations such as drag holes, raise ladders, and carry a dummy so far so that they can show their physical fitness or their ability to do it in an emergency situation.
 Inter-level courses for our firefighters, we start with our leadership and supervision program at the L-180 level. That's just an entry-level training to start building our future leaders of this department. The Texas Commission of Fire Protection has met operations cert and our national register of emergency technicians. We're seeing both a passing rate of 100%. So once they get through the academy, we are seeing success in that they are all passing the exams. Next slide, please.
 So looking here, this is our 9 1 Regional Communications Center. And if we look at this slide right here and we see we start off on the left you know it's actually reverse order. You know we look at several years ago now my LS my first LSS project was actually looking into the training program of our 9 1 1 Communications Center.
 Prior to that, training was lasting anywhere from six months to 12 months. There was no set program. It was very sporadic in how it was handled. It was training specific to each site. What we've done is we've standardized it, and so now we're training them to the 
 communications technician level, we're training everyone the same. And then they get that basic training and those basic certs that they need. And then we branch them off into whatever their area of expertise is gonna be, whether it's fire dispatching, police dispatching, or actual 911 call taking. And so that has allowed us to take that process that was pretty much a random number
 And it took it down to a six-month program. So we know that within six months, we can get somebody off the street, give them the training they need, give them the hands-on floor time experience so that they can be successful to work independently on there.
 We've also looked over the years and we've seen that our recruitment has been very difficult to fill. With the training, we did see some improvements and next slides we'll get into that. We did see some improvements and we were able to get our staffing to a very good number, but we still have to maintain that continuous recruitment process.
 And so what it is, we're leaving it open. HR staff is constantly working on the applications at hand, and we're trying to create numerous classes where they will focus on one or two per year. This allows the ability for us to capture people as they're actually looking to join the workforce and take advantage of those opportunities we have. Our increased compensation, as we've talked about recently,
 Back in August of 21, we did increase the entry-level salary to $20 an hour. So that's a big increase for our communicators, and it's trying to be competitive, what we've seen in the workforce. COVID has done a hit nationally. It's not just 911. It's all positions. And this is one where we really felt it.
 This increase in salary is trying to compete with the other ones who are stealing, trying to take our resources. So we're really investing into the communicators, and we'll get into that in the next slide, please. So as I talked about, you know, we talked about the success of our trading program development. If you look back at the beginning of...
 COVID in March of 2020, we had 10 vacancies. That had been the best we've had for vacancies in the five, six years that I've been overseeing that program prior to that. When you look at October, 2020, it was even better. We only had two vacancies. It was COVID that really took an effect on us. And we've seen this huge increase. With that, we haven't stopped. We continue to recruit, as I said, it's continuous recruitment. We've started classes, you can see back in 2019,
 And numerous times we're starting, you know, 10 to 12, we're graduating six to eight. It's a continued focus. What we're doing right now is we're focusing on how do we help that workload? As we've all heard and we've all talked about recently, there's been those vacancies on top of COVID.
 COVID is really affecting the workforce. I believe today we have probably 15 people out on COVID leave out of the 911 communications. When you're looking at FTEs of 124, that's a huge amount to overcome. So what are we doing to do that? We have police officers who are trained in 911 communications. They're actually coming in on overtime to assist with the workload on the PD emergency communications, so on the radio channel themselves. We also have firefighters who are cross-trained in...
 handle fire calls on the radio. They can also do call taking. By doing this, we're able to keep our staffing up. And this is what we have to do. We have numerous, we have current academies in place. They're ongoing. We're bringing those 35 fire recruits that I talked about where we offered them other positions. Some of them will be moving into our 911 communication system. We might say, well, that's a temporary fix if they're only going to
 If they're going to start the academy in August, well, it is a temporary fix. But that temporary fix is going to give us a certified individual who will
 graduate the fire academy, be a successful firefighter. And then when, if times like this happen again, we still have that resource like we're using today where we can pull firefighters back into the center, use their resources to assist with the staffing and the demands placed on these, on this. It's a rigorous job. And so as you can see with the, when you look at these numbers of the people we've lost, that's what it is. It does take a toll and we understand that. Next slide, please.
 Some of the investments that's been made with the 911 communication system, we can talk about the training program we can do. We can talk about adding additional dollars.
 They've had a new facility built in the last few years. So working in the 911 district, they built that new facility. It is a state of the art. I'm sure most of you have seen it. If not, we need to get you out there. It's a facility that's really made with the employee in mind. When I gave that quote earlier about our best investment ever is in our employee, that's what that means. It's taking care of them. It's giving them the space they need. If you remember the location they were at previously, it was downtown. Their outdoor break area was an alleyway.
 Their lunchroom was rather small. There was no real areas to get out and venture. Here they have a full-size, state-of-the-art gym. They have quiet areas. They have nursing areas. They have outdoor patios, indoor kitchens. It's really to keep the employee and give them that break time that they need so they continue providing the service we need. Next slide, please.
 looking at our academy our academies and we talked about some of them earlier and going on into the what we're seeing coming up in the future the this is our continuous process to get to make up those numbers that we need we know we're lacking we continue to push them we'll continue to use resources both fire and police whatever we have to to ensure that we can get them up get them back up to the staffing levels they need to be at
 I can tell you we did use some of our COVID operators. So COVID operators are the ones that we brought in on a temporary basis to assist us. Those are the ones we trained across multiple areas
 What I mean by that is they can either work at a testing site, a vaccination site, they can work at the call center, they're doing contact tracing. So depending on where the demand is, what we did is we actually held a class specific to them who wanted to join over and cross over. And then that actually got us some of our graduates. They started as COVID operators, now they've come into this for a new career choice and a long-term investment in our system. Next slide, please.
 So looking at the training excellence for communication, some of the professional certifications, when we look at this top bullet, criminal justice and procedures, criminal justice information services,
 Chief Pacilla, I'm sure we'll talk about it in his presentation, but that's the requirements for the background checks that's required of all law enforcement and anyone working within the 911 Center. So it's a very strenuous, that's a lot of the difficulties with recruitment too, is getting somebody who can pass that background, that level of depth. But it's a state requirement. We can't work around that. We have to follow those. And that's one of the...
 the certs or the professional qualifications they have to have. We're also giving them the emergency academies, the emergency dispatching for both fire, medical and police. And we're also giving them their TCIC TLETS, which is Texas Crime Information Center and law enforcement communications, as well as CPR certifications. Next slide. Thank you. And I'll pass it to Chief Pacillas. Chief Pacillas Good morning, council and mayor. Good morning, Chief. Chief Pacillas, assistant chief for the record. Next slide, please.
 We're going to be going over recruitment first with the police department and the state of recruitment for law enforcement, not just with the El Paso Police Department, but overall across the country is difficult is the best way to put it. Recently, the International Association of Chiefs of Police did a report on recruiting across the country.
 What this slide demonstrates is 78% of the departments are agencies that are reporting the difficulty in finding quality candidates just to start with. And 65% have very few or are having too few candidates apply. And I'll get into that in a little bit with the Apasa Police Department.
 75% of departments are reporting that recruiting is more difficult compared to just five years ago. And 50% of the departments, agencies reporting that they have adopted different policies to try to find quality candidates.
 departments, agencies are reporting a reduced or eliminating the department services because of their staff staffing shortages. So basically what they're some departments are doing is they're shutting down different sections within their departments. Next slide, please.
 This is just part of the narrative of this report by the International Association of Chiefs of Police. And it's just going into what I just covered, that the difficulty of finding quality candidates. Agencies are attributing this to what they believe as a public perception of law enforcement right now.
 and being able to do a sizable recruitment of personnel. And that's the barrier to what we as law enforcement believe is what's going on with people applying to become police officers.
 The third box on the right side is talking about what the officers, when the IACP did this report, what their perception is and that the officers are feeling that due to the high-profile use of force incidents and also incidents where officers are being targeted for attacks and ambushes are making their jobs a lot more difficult out there.
 The next box down there is agencies are noting that passing background checks are very difficult. Chief D'Agostino talked about it just very quickly as the CJIS requirements. They are an in-depth background that are required not just by the state of Texas, but by the federal government to the FBI because officers are accessing sensitive databases on people.
 And then the last box on there is what the IECP has found is the impact to the profession. And basically what it's talking about is if this trend continues, is basically police departments are going to have to make decisions on what services they might have to cut if they don't continue to try to find the qualified applicant to fill the vacancies going forward. Next slide, please.
 These are just some samples of our recruiting. The one on the left is what we post on our social media platforms. We also have two recruiters who go out in person attempting to recruit people at various locations, and I'll talk about that in a second. That's just the last one is a photograph of an actual testing process. And the reason we put that in there, I'm just going to use an example. When...
 Back in the past, we used to use the Civic Center, that whole main Grand Hall, to take tests, and that would be filled up with literally hundreds, if not thousands, of applicants to become police officers. And now we're having difficulty getting what we need for the candidates coming up. Next slide, please. We're going to pass this video. Chief D'Agostino showed this one to you already, showing the partnership between police and fire. Next slide, please.
 So we send out our recruiters to do in-person recruitment, and these are some of the locations where they've gone to. They go to the universities. Fort Bliss is a very good, strong application pool with soldiers who might be towards the end of their career.
 service with the military. We will go to high school career days. Most of the high schools here in El Paso do have a law enforcement curriculum there, so we will go out there and try to get that age group interested in law enforcement and letting them know that the standards to background checks are going to be based on decisions that they're making right now.
 We do have law enforcement explorers post at each one of our regional commands. And some of the other events that we will show up to is places where people might be showing up with interest in law enforcement type careers or career paths. Next slide, please. We also will go through traditional or digital billboards.
 the universities and some of the other colleges here will allow us to put posters similar to the one that you're seeing right there on the slide. And some of the gyms will allow us to put those up to recruit. We do have a webpage dedicated to just recruiting for the police department at joinEPPD.com. And then we will put a newspaper ads at those listed universities. Next slide.
 We do also do internet type recruiting. Like I mentioned, we have the eppd.com, join eppd. We will recruit on law enforcement specific
 WEBSITES. EXAMPLE RIGHT THERE IS POLICE1.COM. TCLO, THE STATE GOVERNING REGULATORY BODY OVER POLICE OFFICER'S LICENSE ALSO HAS A JOB WEBSITE BOARD AND WE'LL POST IT THERE. WE HIT ALL OUR SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS, TWITTER, FACEBOOK, INSTAGRAM, SAMPLE OF ONE OF OUR SOCIAL MEDIA OUTREACHES. AND THEN WE ALSO POST ON UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE CAREER
 Next slide, please. This right here is a sample of our last four academy classes. The 127th was budgeted to start 35. We increased it to 45 so we can get at the end as close to that 35 as possible. We graduated 34 for the 128th.
 which will be graduating next month. We're budgeted 45, we started with 45 and currently there's 35 in the class. I want you to note right there, we had to do two recruitments just to get the 20, over 2000 applicants to start that.
 And for a sample of that, previously, about over five years ago, we were easily getting over 5,000, 6,000 applicants just to come in and take the police exam and go through the process. The 129th class that's currently in there also, we're running two academy classes, was budgeted for $65,000.
 But we were only able to find 34 that were qualified. This academy class will graduate on July 25th.
 And currently we have 31 recruits. And we are slated to start another Academy class. Our recruiters and background investigations, our internal HR department within PD is actively recruiting and testing right now for a budget started of 31. Right now we only have 1800 apply.
 And like I said, it's slated to start July 25th, and it'll graduate in February 2023. We're projecting that hopefully we can get to 35 out of that. Next slide, please. This right here is a TCL statistics, so you all can understand about the number of police officers license issued by the state of Texas. It was over 78,000.
 And there are currently over 2,700 agencies within the state of Texas. And that's what we're competing with within the state of Texas with all these other 2,729 agencies. And there are 115 licensed police academies throughout the state of Texas. Next slide, please.
 So on the background, TCLO regulates the background application or what we would term as a personal history statement. A person, once they get through the initial or preliminary testing processes, which is the written test and the physical agility test, we present them with a personal history statement. And it's a comprehensive, very comprehensive question and answer that the individual has to fill out.
 And TCLIO has set the standard on this, and we cannot deviate from that standard. We can add to it, but we cannot take away from it. Next slide, please. This is the actual TCLIO rules, which is governed under the government code. So they are in fact basically state law.
 So in order for somebody to enroll into a licensed course, which would be the El Paso Police Academy, for example, they must have on file an acceptable commission that meets the eligibility of the licensor. And that goes back to the background statement. The individual, when they fill out that personal history statement, they will swear under the penalty of perjury that all the information that is in that application or that personal history statement is true and correct to the best of their ability.
 Some of the things that are also required are fingerprinting of the individual that are run through local, state, and federal databases to ensure that the individuals do not have any previous records of a Class B or higher and have never been convicted of any offenses of a Class B or higher. Next slide, please. This outlines some of the detail that's in the personal history statement.
 This relates to the El Paso Police Academy and El Paso Police Grant requiring that we're using a commission approved personal history statement, which we are. Verifies the application meets all the individual requirements for licensure under the rules based on the personal history statement.
 and any other information known to the enrollee entity, which means they're requiring us to make sure we are doing a thorough background check on anybody who's eligible to enter the El Paso Police Academy. We have to contact previous enrolling entities, so if the individual is coming from another agency, we do have to reach out to them to find out the individual's background if they were previously employed by another law enforcement agency.
 requires a completion of personal history statement. I've already stated that. At least three personal references, all employees, employers for the last 10 years, if that's applicable because there's no age limit. Obviously somebody coming in at 21 might not have a 10 year job employment history.
 contact the chief administrator or the chief administrator of the chaplains previous law enforcement agency and a complete criminal history and driving records check. Next slide please. You can cover a little bit of the overview of what we've been doing at the El Paso Police Academy. Next slide please.
 We presented this before in the CFT, the El Paso Strong Resolution CFT. This is just once again covering what TGLO requires as far as their basic peace officer training course and then what we do as far as it goes, enhancing the training of the El Paso police officer. So that way on day one, we're putting out the best trained qualified individual out there.
 We are basically doubling the requirements and training of an El Paso police officer when they go through our basic police officer course. Next slide, please. This just breaks down the last slide. TCLO has 42 subjects required by the state, and we added an additional 42 courses for the recruit.
 So if you take that 996 hours mandatory by the state plus our 946 hours, that's how we end up with 10 months, one week. As of July 1st, TGLIO has also increased their basic peace officer requirement and the hours are gonna be going up for them to 712 hours. Next slide, please.
 These are the additional training topics that we do go over with the recruits in their training. We're talking about active listening skills, de-escalation, dealing with people in different mental or physiological states that they might have, or impairments that they might have, customer service, animal cruelty, defensive tactics.
 and things of those nature, active shooter, canine encounters, and crash reporting, so that when the officer's out there analyzing different traffic accidents, we will help TxDOT and also the city of El Paso, hopefully being able to come up with safer streets and highways. Next slide, please. And we can wrap these courses, the additional 946 hours, into these basic categories of points of instruction.
 And what the increased training comes in is we've gone into a scenario-based training type of academy training that the methodology of TCLIO has adopted for across the state.
 meaning that what our academy staff does now with recruits and even now with in-service training is they will take the individual from an initial call, it can be any type of call, and that recruit would have to investigate that call, process the scene, write their reports, turn it into a supervisor, supervisor will review it, and if there needs to be a
 any corrections, they'll do that. And he'll take it all the way, if there's an arrest or anything like that, he'll take it all the way into a courtroom where we have partnered with local, both the district attorney and the U.S. attorneys, to put them through a mock courtroom testimony. So it's not the first time that an officer will see any of this stuff when they hit the streets out there. Next slide, please. And...
 I got ahead of myself. That's what I just talked about right there, taking the call from the initial state all the way through the final prosecution of an incident in a mock scenario for our police trainees. Next slide, please.
 This is just to show you what what we have right now. Like I stated before there's 35 recruits right now and the 128 that'll be graduating at the end of next month and the 129th class we're looking to graduate 31 towards the end of July of this year. Next slide please.
 This kind of breaks it down in depth for our in-service training. So we don't just train our recruits and then forget about them. There's continuous training going on for our in-service staff or continuing education, if you will.
 The state requires 40 hours of training in a 24-month cycle. So you only, as a police officer in the state of Texas, you're only required to have 40 hours and two years of continuing education. And that requires our academy staff to put together over 45,000 contact hours of police training for our in-service. But what we've done is we've increased it to increase the,
 the abilities of our police officers to work with the community by over 140% because in a 12-month training cycle, we give each officer over 96 hours of training just in 12 months.
 or put it another way, the Academy is doing an additional 108,000 contact hours of training for each of our officers that are currently commissioned by TCLIP. Next slide, please. We also, when code enforcement was embedded in the police department, we took over the training of our code enforcement officers, and they're governed under the Texas Department of License and Residence Regulation,
 And they're required to have 12 hours of training within a 24-hour, a 24-month cycle, with an additional five hours required by the city of El Paso for a total of 17 hours in that 24-month period.
 What the training academy has done is they've gotten into a curriculum and I have to give them a lot of credit. They quickly pivoted to accept this task and they helped create 48 hours within a 12-hour, 12-month period.
 So with the code enforcement officers within the police department, they're getting over 65 hours in a 12-month period. Now, a lot of the training that we gave these code enforcement officers is what we give our police officers. And we've done it for other city departments, our communication skills training.
 and personal development and health issues. So the academy was able to enhance their training with a curriculum that they already had that they've been using with police officers. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. So these are some of the units that are new or have been enhanced since 2016.
 The animal cruelty unit was established in 2017, which consists of one police officer, four detectives and a sergeant. The gang suppression unit in 2017 has 15 officers and two sergeants. We centralized our traffic units and they started in 2018 with one lieutenant, two sergeants and 34 motor officers. And also,
 We've worked with ONG, talking about with Ms. Mack and the city manager, Mr. Gonzalez, we're talking about improvements and planning. We've been able to update our high-performance vehicles. There was a sample picture of it at the beginning of this presentation.
 We have five officers in it right now, and an additional five will be moved in later this year with the graduating of the academy class in February. So we'll have a total of these high performance vehicles to help stop aggressive driving out there in the city of El Paso. The DW task force was enhanced in 2017. We moved it up to 17 officers with three sergeants,
 and just this past year we're able to get one lieutenant to continue the Hispanic control and the chain of command over this unit. So Chief, if I can stop you real quick. I'm sorry, I thought you were finished. Let me just add something for the council's information. This is a good example of the decisions you made whenever we presented the 300,
 officer plan to the council and in the budgeting process that that that is approved this gave them the ability to do these different Programs that weren't in place before so these were ways to respond to needs in the community priorities in the community Based on again what was important not only for our city But also the things are in our strategic plan and then the council then funded those in our recommendations and these are the type of programs that they've been able to put in place as a result of those decisions and
 Go ahead, Chief. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. The downtown metro unit was established in 2016 with 41 officers, five sergeants and a lieutenant, and then the crisis management team in 2018 that started with 14 officers, three sergeants, one lieutenant, and 14 EHN mental health specialists.
 But I want to take a moment on that crisis intervention team. The City Council gave us additional funds to be able to get qualified applicants to increase the academy back in 2018 so that we could fund the or we could staff the CIT unit. And that was a difficult endeavor going back to the recruitment process trying to get the people in there. But like Mr. Gonzales said these are the initiatives that
 the city as a whole has been committed to. And on that one, Chief, the council did champion that one, a crisis intervention team, Missanello did and several other council members were instrumental in championing that particular one. Yes, yes, sir. Thank you. Next slide, please. So this is just a graph over time from fiscal year 2009 through expectations up to fiscal 2025. You'll notice in fiscal 21,
 we had only 29 growth. We basically had zero growth, but that because of the pandemic and being able to recruit and being able to keep operations going, that's where that happened as far as it goes. But we are projecting for this fiscal year
 to come out ahead. And then going forward, as Mr. Gonzalez stated earlier, opening up comments that we are committed to continue the growth of the police department. And those are examples of what we're looking at for 2022, as far as growth is 66, 105 for the following year, the following two years, and then 2025, another 105. Next slide, please.
 some of the process improvements that we have done through the LSS program and
 Yes, consolidation of the nuisance code enforcement into EPPD. Launched the volunteer patrol program and we're using technology for our quote unquote neighborhood watch programs for our community service officers and our PIO's office to make outreach to our community through different technological applications. Next slide, please.
 Some of the improvements that have been implemented is the district court police overtime process. The telephone reporting unit. The city county workshop for the DIMS process that we started earlier this month. The development of the convenience store and open container ordinances that you all voted on and approved those two ordinances.
 And then the purchase of technology to help enhance our operations, whether it's through mobile surveillance or our gunshot detectors. Next slide, please. And these are the process improvements that are in progress right now. The Mississauga Court PD scheduling improvement. We're working with the Municipal Court on this one. Our traffic safety program.
 to help keep officers on the streets in a more efficient manner and effective manner and the collection of out-of-state parking citations. Next slide, please. And with that, we'll open it up for any questions that you may have for Chief D'Agostino or myself. Before you all have any questions, Council, I did want to add a couple of comments with respect to
 the presentation in and of itself. So the presentation that they just gave, again I told you there's gonna cover a litany of items,
 The comments I wanted to make are in relation to the alignment and integration of these departments. With respect to the Health Department and Animal Services, I gave you those examples of how they're forced multipliers and how they've made it more effective. I think not only in that respect, but with COADS reporting to police during the pandemic, it's been very helpful because when Mario went to give a keynote speech in Las Vegas,
 He was a hit with the national organizations. I know you've heard us say, you've heard the mayor say about CDC and Rockefeller recognizing the city for having the best vaccine rollout.
 which was really a good recognition, but the result is what's more important, and that's the numbers, how we're taking care of our community. A lot of the questions that Mario got in Las Vegas whenever he was a keynote with all these national organizations there from DC,
 was how did you get all these things done? How did you have all the numbers? Because they read about and saw all these different cities having all these different problems and they had everything they needed and the resources during that entire pandemic. That's because of the partnership and the integration and the reporting relationship of the health department
 to the fire department, in this case, Office of Emergency Management. The examples with animal services, which is a separate and apart issue from the pandemic, but with regard to how the fire stations are used in order to really bring those to life in terms of how they help the Animal Services Department without impacting the service that the fire department does. Again, that's that alignment and integration in order to provide better services.
 the codes department reporting to the police department is a force multiplier i don't know if you've already seen some of the vehicles that were painted to look like police vehicles to have more of a presence in the community that in addition to things like the volunteers and police program that we put in place that again is a best practice so we did those things and for those that have questions about the integration or the the combination of those partnerships
 That's not the first time that that's been done in cities. That was done in another city that I managed and in all the cities in the Metroplex followed suit.
 In that particular city, we had codes and animal services in the police department, and it worked extremely well. Again, different circumstances. So here, it just works better in the ways we've partnered these departments in those respective departments that are the lead departments with regard to that force multiplier. So I wanted to bring that to y'all's attention. And that's something that has not only given us a great result, but we are, I believe,
 the leader in that space was a standard bearer, not just looking at what the best practice. In this case, I believe we are the best practice. And there's other cities that have asked us about how do we do it. We've had four different cities that visited us a month ago.
 that they wanted to know about all these partnerships, wanted to know things like about our Communities of Excellence program, wanted to know about Lean Six Sigma and the efficiencies there, and how did you get police to engage in that, how do you get fire to engage in that? And we said it was very easy because they saw the results
 and how it made their processes more efficient and more effective. So we have regularly all these departments asking for this training because they see the benefit of it and how it makes them better and more effective. So I want to thank the gentleman and Dion and the rest of the folks for the presentation.
 I know that like I said, you know, we had one of the persons presenting that's not well And so I want to thank them for that For stepping up and still doing the presentation of a lot of work We'll come back and give more more updates, but but I did want to make those comments relative to how we combine those departments Thank You mr. Gonzales with that. We have represented the side ago followed my mayor pro tem then followed by representative Thank You. Mr. Gonzales Thank you to the presenters
 And thank you for being the best practice from all over the, I would say the country. Chief Pasillas, I had a question for you on slide 23 where you're talking about the recruitment crisis and you were talking about how some of the departments have to be shut down. Are we having to do that in El Paso? No, not at this point. Okay, I was just curious about that. Thank you for your excellent work and the great presentation. That's all I have, Mayor.
 Thank you Representative Sadiga. Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Rivera. Thank you again. Very informative presentation on both sides of our public safety aisle if you will. I just have a curious question. I know that staffing has been an ongoing concern. It's something that I've expressed pretty consistently over this last year and during my two terms here. I know that we're looking at doing
 sort of three academies at this point for the next one. But I'm kind of curious about what we're doing in terms of trying to either keep our officers here. And then the second part is what are we doing to attract talent from other communities as well? I know that over the last year we've seen different advertisements from other regional cities in the southwest looking to hire El Paso trained El Paso bred,
 police officers. So my question is what are we doing to make sure or what are we thinking about in the future to make it to make us more competitive to keep the officers that we train here? And then the other question is, is what are we doing in terms of recruitment outside of El Paso to to attract and retain officers that are outside of El Paso?
 So I'll start first and then I'll let the rest of the folks on the call and the presentation add their comments as well as if Robert or Adeseli want to speak to or Dion on the marketing and what they're doing with regard to recruiting rather.
 so with respect to what we've done over the last several years number one we've added more officers which which makes their their caseload lighter in terms of their getting more resources second thing is the equipment that they needed that in the past was was bonded you know more debt in order to do things that should have been paid for with cash so now that's in the budget it wasn't in the budget before and it's in the budget i want to thank the council for
 their support for that for both those programs, adding more officers and having money for equipment replacement. So when people speak about the budget, I think they need to have their facts relative to, you know, how the budget has gone up and why and where it goes to. It goes primarily to public safety, to police and fire, it goes to streets.
 I mentioned earlier that we've had over 400 streets have been done over the last four or five years. I think that's significant. That speaks to the council's votes in terms of what they wanted, how they wanted it, and how quickly they wanted it. And it speaks to how we're responding to the community. Relative to the collective bargaining agreement,
 We believe we had a strong collective bargaining agreement process, one in which the department voted for, and they have it. They feel like they have a strong collective bargaining agreement in place. I think that's important. The fact that we are supportive of our police department of added more training, that more programs like you heard today and then specifically relative to
 The collective bargaining agreement, again, we agreed to a lot of things that really addressed some of their concerns relative to training for middle management, pay issues relative to the different positions that they felt like needed the attention. We addressed those things. And then with respect to some of the lateral moves, I know that some police departments are able to move police officers from one city to the next.
 the same position title and just offer a mini Academy if you will we didn't have that here that's something we're working towards and I just talked to start in short I know that our folks were working on it but you have to have a you have to have agreement with the with the Union as well and so that is something that that we're working through we feel like that that's just a matter of getting that process so I think that's a good thing the drop program that
 We've been able to instill, to implement rather. It's another thing that we put in place in order to keep our officers longer on the back end so we don't lose them. And then also just the pension that you just saw the other day during the charter process, and then we've been trying to do that for two years now. That's something that would give them more peace, more of a sense of calm.
 That's another area that we're addressing that's a concern for them. So we've done all those different things in order to, number one, show that we're listening. Number two, show that we're listening through our actions and that we actually did something in response to those concerns that they had.
 And I haven't mentioned a litany of other things like the replacement of vehicles. And I could go on in terms of making the work environment better for them, just like the 2019 bond proposal that we put forward and the citizens voted on. That gives our police department a sense of support and backing that they need to have in order to feel comfortable in the environment that they work because they have a lot of challenges.
 And then I'll stop there and put a pin in it and ask Chief Basias if he's got any comments and Dion has any comments and if HR has any comments as well. So to answer some of the questions on what we're doing as far as outreach outside of the city of El Paso, we use technology as mentioned through social media, the police one or police type periodicals that are on the internet.
 We've also put up billboards in different cities. For example, we've done in Albuquerque and the regional area out here.
 We also learned from other people's attempts to do that. For example, Dallas PD spent literally thousands, I think it's tens of thousands of dollars trying to recruit all the way up into the Washington DC metroplex and they didn't get any, what they were saying, any benefits. Or they didn't see any benefits of going outside of the region as far as that goes.
 nationwide law enforcement is competing for an ever-shrinking pool of quality applicants or candidates, if you will. So those are some of the things that we're doing. And when we speak to some of these, I'm going to call them kids because they can come in at the age of 21. When we speak to them, a lot of them, they don't really pay attention to newspapers
 The media and stuff like that. They're watching more of the social media type platforms, and that's where we're focusing our efforts along with the different type of outreaches like Fort Bliss and the universities with that type of recruiting.
 So that's basically what we're focusing on doing our outreach, trying to grab people in there. And then like the city manager mentioned, we are working right now on a lot of academy program. We're trying to codify this with the union because it will have some type of integration into the collective bargaining agreement.
 do we have representatives just to add i know we talked about the marketing piece again as i think we you recognize in the last meeting we need to be thinking about our recruitment and some of the investments from a marketing perspective in a different ways we do have the resources to do that
 We think that once we're clear on how we can move forward in the lateral moves, then that's a different type of recruitment. And then also thinking about how we can marry the message about what a great place El Paso is to live with this opportunity and working with our marketing team to get some of those messages out. We have been using radio and others, but we really are anxious to look at other ways to be able to do that.
 have already coordinated with our budget team. So we know we have the ability to move forward on these plans as we develop them for the next class that may be coming in. Do we have an idea of the budget that we have for this for this online and exterior recruiting?
 How much money we're spending on these these methods at this time? I can grab I can grab that number. I did. I do have it for our last recruitment class. Okay, because it would be good to get a sense of what we're doing. And if we need to look at adjusting those numbers in our upcoming budget again, we hear time and time again that, you know, we don't have enough officers are on here that there's concerns from leadership from the city about the amount of officers that we have. And so I think we really need to be going and turning, um, over
 over every single rock virtual social media and otherwise to make sure that we're we're we're keeping the officers that we have and we're looking as aggressively can either within our community outside of our community to attract.
 officers as well so yes sir if I may as I pointed out all the things that council has done you've been on the council that whole time a lot of the people here have been making those decisions as well I know the mayor was here before not here again so he's familiar also with some of those moves that were made I do want to tell you that that comment that you keep referring to that I think you're
 You're justified in saying it because it was said by someone senior At that particular community meeting is actually true We just today are at the number of officers. We were at 20 years ago. That should be a sobering Comment to everyone that today. We're barely at the number we were 20 years ago. I
 So when you heard that comment, it's true. And it's the department's frustration with the fact that the city has grown and it's grown exponentially over the last 20 years. It had the biggest spike during the Fort Bliss growth that took place. And you all know that. You all lived through all that. And at the same time, the number of officers during that time were being reduced. And the budget was being reduced during that time. That's the reason the number of officers is so low.
 That's the reason the streets were in the condition that they were in. That's the reason the equipment replacement program was where it was at. Because it was popular to reduce the budget by cutting the taxes and then not getting these things done. For the community, you know, you had a backlash of that. You had the 2012 package, council put together a program in 2017 for streets and then in
 you had another bond proposal that was passed for public safety. Again, all of that spoke to all the neglect that was taking place. So Mayor Pro Tem, you're exactly right every time you bring that up, and that is that they're woefully understaffed because they're barely where they were 20 years ago. That's why we put the 300-person program in place for the police department
 That's the reason why we told council and we told the public that when the 2019 package was being considered and they voted on it, that we would have to add additional officers above 300 in order to staff the Eastside Regional Command Center as an example, and to be able to keep up with the growth. So that number, we'll probably come back with the number of what that number looks like. But, you know, Dion, you can chime in if I'm wrong on this, but I think that number is going to look like 350 to 375 officers now.
 So the academies that are running and that are continuing to run, and the fact that they added to the academy, increases the competitiveness and the difficulties and the challenges that these officers have, because of all the discussion that has taken place across the country. So they have a lot of challenges. We have a lot of challenges, but we've met that challenge. The Council's met that challenge.
 But I did want to speak to that mayor Pro Tem because I think you have brought that up and I think you you you're spot on for bringing that up. And I really appreciate and the staff appreciates the fact that you know you have been the council's been extremely supportive of the needs of the police department and the fire department. And I just want to wrap it up and say absolutely. I know that we're we've been doing a lot. I know that we can be doing more and I know that
 there are clear concerns from leadership that about where staffing levels are have needed to be need to be going. But what I want to challenge staff during this upcoming budget season because we're having these conversations and you know our our budget our budget season is right around the corner in fact these all these updates are part of it. It is just that during this time we really need to be thinking I think it's creatively aggressively as possible about those issues of staffing in our police department whether that means looking at at
 at raising the amount of of social media advertising or other towards towards recruitment outside of here whether increasing that budget or looking at other ways whether that is that is looking at engaging third parties that might have more of an expertise and kind of in sort of marketing advertising or other sort of things we need to be looking at that and also looking to.
 If we're having a situation where we go and train officers and they're in our community, you know, they're from El Paso and a year after their training or two years after their training, they're off to another city because the wage is higher for whatever reason that we need to be looking at what can we do in terms of increased bonuses or or or
 or salary or otherwise to keep our officers here so that after that year of training and and investment into these into these officers that they don't go and blossom into other communities so i just really want to be clear that that that is where i'm coming from and that's what i think and i and i believe that's not necessarily so much
 a Peter Schwarzbein concern as much as it's the city of El Paso concern and a District 1 concern. And so I just want to be clear about that and be on the record about that because I do think it's something we deserve and our officers deserve it as well. I agree with you, sir, and I agree that it's a Council, it's an entire Council concern. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sir, I just wanted to add that I think
 It's really important for council to realize that all the things that you've done to help the police department in terms of the academy are bearing fruit. But when we look at the numbers that we see in terms of outages for COVID, it has an impact every day. You know, when you think about the number of officers that we may have out on quarantine, just as, you know, Chief D'Agostino talked about for the communicators, it is the equivalent of one or two classes who graduated.
 you know i spoke to a sergeant the other day and he was down to one person in a four-person shift because of a normal outage one injury on a job one covet event and then we had to you know pull the detective to do that work it slows down things so when the chief is talking about where we are today it is important to sort of realize that in this environment it's different than where we were when we were just talking about business as usual for our city and talking about operations and availability of resources within that context
 We absolutely understand the need to move forward with recruiting and retention, and we look closely at what our attrition rates are, whether it's from the academy or from the department. I see those numbers in terms of the reasons why people are leaving. One thing that's important to realize is that all those years when we weren't hiring people meant that the majority of our staff were at a place where they were eligible for retirement.
 And so what you've done is now add a buffer between the people who have, you know, a few years of experience and people who have a lot of years of experience. But we're going to continue to see that retirement level hit just because of the years that people have had with the department.
 And I think the context for Chief Allen's comment was in an event that included EPISD staff. I think it is fair for the city to expect, you know, a police department that's also tax funded at the amount of $6 million.
 in this environment in particular to cover the resources that are needed for that agency for which they are funded and to use us as a secondary when necessary because we have so many demands and so i think all of this needs to be like sort of kept into context in terms of the conversations understanding what's happening in the moment
 when we talk about some of these things, because I don't think it's meant to be a broad stroke against the department's abilities to recruit or the things that we're trying to do to make it better. Because I don't think that you should allow anything to take away from that effort. And we certainly understand that has been a heavy lift. And I think that commitment helps us to be able to recruit, showing that you have this commitment to public safety in a way that the city has in all the time that I've been here in El Paso. Thank you.
 Mayor Patel, I'm going to... I just really just want to wrap it up. Yeah. Again, because I know that we've been talking about it. There's others that might want to speak. But when we talk about leadership and we talk about how we speak about each other, a lot of that comes from the top. It comes with how our leadership speaks about what our organization is doing, what our council is doing.
 So I think it's really important that regardless of the leadership, whether it's leadership coming from city council, leadership coming from different departments, that we
 that we speak with the unified vision to talk about what what is actually going on and the kind of support that is being that is being gotten because gone the the kind of support that the council has given to different departments especially when it relates towards public safety because when the public hears that we don't have that this council or other councils or this council hasn't supported public safety right that is within a larger context of
 of conversations having nationally about how different municipalities are treating their police department, are funding or not funding their police department, are transitioning, you know, are using those resources. And our city has not entered into those conversations. Our city has consistently supported increasing staff, increasing funding for staffing, increasing funding for infrastructure for our police and our firefighters.
 And so I think it's really important that we are very conscious about the words that we have, not just the city council, but also leadership from different departments as well as executive leadership as well. I agree with you Mayor Pro Tem. And as far as those comments, I did have a conversation after that with that particular person. And also I have asked Dion Mack to work on a fact sheet, if you will, that lists all the things that have been done
 uh... prior to the strategic plan after the strategic plan and the different programs that have been put in place in order for us to share that not only with uh... the executives at police department and fire but also with the uh... firefighters the police department and also the council and also the public so that they can see that uh... so it we take it very seriously the comments that you're making and the fact that you know
 the things that have been put in place are a direct result of that fact that they have been funded but i i hear your comments and and again we'll we'll come back
 and I'll have Dion come back with that fact sheet to show. It's very impressive, all the things that have been done, but there's just so many things that haven't been done for a long, long time that there's a lot of catch up and it takes a very, very long time to catch up to where we need to be. And I do agree, the council has set the tone with regard to speaking with one voice, whether it's this, whether it's the code of conduct, whether it's, you know, y'all have shown some leadership in those areas. And so, yeah, I agree with your comments.
 All right, thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Mayor Potem, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. I forgot. No, just kidding. First of all, thank you, Chief Macias, for the report. It was really great detail. And if anybody has any questions, they should just refer to this. That was very enlightening for the public. Ms. Mack brought up some very good points, as did the city manager.
 in the past and I believe Representative Mullinari can attest to this as well. In the past, the police department didn't have the support from the council or depending on how that city manager felt at that time to provide equipment, provide technology, provide academies. As a matter of fact, academies were canceled. That led to us falling further behind.
 The other issue was the point that you made that strives for me as far as retaining police officers and stuff was that I compliment that drop program because back in the days, if you reached 28 years of service, people just felt they had to leave because they were losing money. And yet, even though they were capable of doing another 10 
 Years or so they left because they felt they were losing money and their pension So what happened is that with this program that was in place? first of all became known as a backdrop then they found something better as far as the drop program itself forward drop that retained a lot of these officers that are on duty now and You give them credit for for sticking around because they realized 20 years wasn't enough and
 they could do more and and they're doing it right now and aside from that with the great leadership that they have and from starting from chief allen on down uh they're they're very motivated to complete this and when we came in and uh myself uh representative fernandez representative anello and at that time representative morgan with the others together we showed a strong support for our public safety
 We elevated the fire department. We elevated the police department with our decisions and decisions that at no time did we hesitate to make. The program that Representative Nello brought in, CIT championed, that's working fantastic because I tell you what, police officers have to go to the same call over and over and over again with the same individual. That has been taken care of. Now they seek the proper channels to,
 Attend to this individual that needs the department's help along So we as a council have done so much for this for this public safety and with the support of the public Which we've always had we've always had that support of the public They have never turned down on their turn turned on their police their police department matter of fact, you would go out there and they would
 They would offer you a cup of coffee. They would offer you buy you lunch whatever you have to actually tell you know Hey, no, you can't do that. That's okay. Thank you But it was great. This community has always supported the police department It just so happened that whatever council was back then back in the days, you know even before Mayor Leaster came on that support wasn't there once he started coming on I
 They, that, I guess the planning to equip public safety wasn't in place just yet. We were fortunate to get a strong leader in our city management area and departments and tell you what, they provided the opportunity for us to support them and we did and that's why I compliment our staff so much. There was a time when,
 Was asked by the previous mayor hey, what does police department need and you know, what was so embarrassing is to see the guys drive away First of all, first of all We had just been named for the first time ever the safest cities and we were driving around with patrol cars Whose paint was peeling off and it showed it showed port like it was a poor showing for the city and
 But yet we had this honor bestowed upon us. And at that time, I believe we might have been just over 900 officers with Chief Allen at town, and the rest of his administrators. And that was embarrassing for the department to drive around. You'd have cars that would make calls and then stall out right at the scene. So all that equipment that we had a part in to present to our public safety,
 both fire and the story that Chief D'Agostino said about the tires falling off, oh my god, that was so embarrassing for the fire department and for us as well. But I tell you what, the many programs that have been implemented, the recruitment,
 The recruitment stuff, Mayor Pro Tem, recruitment stuff, even back then before all this talk about defunding and slamming the police departments throughout the country, that was tough. We were getting people from El Paso taken by the Round Rock or the Interior of Dallas or further east, you know what I'm saying? Because we had, one, the opportunity to provide a bilingual, highly trained officer. That's why we lost him.
 And I said it once before, and I'll say it again. I was so proud of Joe Chacon, who was, I believe he's chief of police in Austin. I had the opportunity to work with him as a rookie. And he was here from El Paso, but he left for Austin for greener pastures, so to speak. And you have a lot of people that do that. And I'll tell you what, knowing the department, they do not rest on their laurels. They're always thinking of ways to recruit people, to bring them into El Paso. But once you're in there...
 The model is and the theory is you really want to be you really want to have to become a police officer to stay in here in El Paso and commit to your community because there's others that just see the training. They know this is the best training that they get. And pretty soon shortly thereafter, they go to another organization that pays them a lot more, does a lot less, but pays them a lot more.
 So this this this the staff that is in place now and the previous staff in the police department have really worked behind to to recruit personnel here and make it an equal opportunity for male and female and anybody that can they can actually do the job because they do things that you wouldn't even think of doing right now.
 I commend Ms. Mack for being the great leader that she is in heading the department that way and Chief Allen and his staff, but it's these programs that were implemented. And that's why I continue to push technology, body cameras so to speak, because that attracts the younger officers as well. These young potential recruits are so tech savvy.
 that that's what they want to use for protection, for protection of any false claims, any frivolous lawsuits, anything that can harm their reputation or the department as a whole or the city, because once we get out there, they represent the city. And so I thank you, staff, Ms. Mack, Chief Allen and his staff, Chief Pacillas for doing what you do.
 and presenting making this presentation today as thorough as it was and and and it presents everything that uh some of these council representatives think we myself had asked you to do so i thank you so much and you know just keep doing the great job that you're doing and somehow hopefully we'll find to retain these officers well beyond the years
 Service so they can you know retire happily and and we can have a whole slew of officers young officers Come up right behind. Thank you mayor. Thank you, sir And you know and I feel what you're saying because you were there. Yes, you were there 28 years 35 35 years and you worked it and you understand and you feel it and and I thank you know, mr. Gonzalez and I I
 we basically started together back when mr gonzalez came in 2014 and understood that our number one priority to our community was always public safety and as elected officials we understand that and i forgot to tell you a story though where one of the officers that works here did it took care of the mayor here uh i haven't seen him in a while but uh they drove off they were a specialized unit and they were driving off in that white uh ford lt crown crown right crown victoria and so
 You had an officer, they had bucket seats, right? So one officer was sitting on a seat, and the officer that, when I walked up to the car, was sitting on a milk crate with a pillow on it. That was the type of equipment we were supplied with. So thank you all for changing those methods.
 and mr gonzalez i know that every budget we talk about our number one priority is always public safety and you've always said that since the day you were here in 2014 and and we'll continue to to make sure that our number one priority to our community will always be public safety and i don't want to leave out my colleagues as well for supporting the public safety the way they do when i ran for office the first time you were a big part of it and i thank you still so um
 I know I have Representative Molinar who also, and I'm not going to guess how many years because I already got one wrong, but I know you served the El Paso Police Department for many years. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mayor. Yes, Joe Monignano for the record. And yes, it was 28 years. 28 years. You got it right.
 I'm your right hand man here. Anyways, good morning kudos to everybody on this call Diane Mac Dion Dion Mac sorry assistant chief Diego Astino chief Allen everyone on the administrative side All the men women on both the fire department in the El Paso Police Department You do a fantastic job each and every day. I know To a point what you're going through however
 Long story short is that one time I was at a training and someone, I always mentioned that I was by myself and I was a
 what's called a B-shift supervisor, working from 7 at night to 3 in the morning. I always said I was by myself. And there was a dispatcher by the name of Leslie Canada who says, you're wrong, Sergeant. And I'm like, what? She said, yeah, you're wrong. And I said, no, no, I'm always by myself. I'm the supervisor out in the field by myself. And she goes, no, you're wrong. Every time that you go out on the call and you go 10-8 in service, a dispatcher is with you.
 I'd stop and think that's absolutely correct so that dispatcher can save your life They can help you and make the call make the right decisions and things like that So for those dispatchers who do not get the recognition who do not get their praise because they're behind the scenes Kudos to you as well and to everyone like I said that supports law enforcement public safety. Thank you very much That's all I have. Thank you
 and we have um representative rodriguez and you know one of the things that's really important and you know i got to meet um chief d'agostino many many years ago before he was chief d'agostino and my son-in-law who this year has been on the fire department for 20 years and he's a paramedic on the mountain rescue team and right here on station one and again was the driver for chief d'agostino and um you know it's um
 I have great admiration for all our public safety people that have really devoted their life and put their life in front of everyone else's and that's really incredible and very and I thank you for everything y'all have done. Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to make it quick because I know we have caught the.
 Public already. I know how hard recruitment is and the challenges that we have right now are just added challenges and it's not making the situation any easier, but Ms. Mack, please count on me if I can go out
 I'm very enthusiastic about these kinds of things and trying to get new recruits for many departments in the city, but definitely police and fire are very important ones for us. So if you have any events, please invite me. I'd be more than happy to go with you all to help recruit anyone that's interested into, like I said, not only the police and fire, but any other departments that need help recruiting as well. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you.
 Jerome, I would like to speak. Representative Hernandez, Representative Manolo. Okay. I guess if we can go to call the public and follow and call the public if we could have a motion to recess for 30 minutes. What's your? Call the attendees. Okay, yeah. Can we do call the public now? Yes, sir.
 Well, now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used
 for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have seven members of the public
 that signed up to speak during the public call to the public portion of the meeting. The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. She will be followed by Miguel Rico, Jason Jones. Ms. Sheck, Ms. Sheck's topic is Right or Wrong, Save America. Good afternoon, ma'am, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. Because if more than three minutes, you cannot heal a whole country
 in three minutes. I know, Ms. Sheck, but. I'll prop the Constitution. Please let me meet the last speaker. Ms. Sheck, we're still gonna limit it to three minutes. We thank you, I know you come every week and we thank you, but we will limit it to three minutes, though. And I thank you, though. I write you a letter. I cannot hear the country in three minutes. No, I thank you, Ms. Sheck, very much. The next speaker is Miguel Rico.
 Mr. Rico has requested a Spanish interpreter, so we have Mr. Jorge Perez in teams that is ready to assist. Mr. Rico, you will have six minutes due to the interpretation, and I ask you to please pause after each sentence to allow the interpreter to translate your comment. Buenas tardes.
 And we've had a conversation before, Your Honor.
 Y ahorita el problema que tengo es de gatos donde yo vivo. And the problem that I have is cats where I live. Y todos los mtodos que estn haciendo son inefectivos. And all the methods that are being used are ineffective. Y yo lo que le pido es un asunto efectivo y con definicin, por favor.
 What I would like is an effective and well-defined program. Please. Yes, the reason is my specialist doctor has diagnosed me with a respiratory diagnosis or problem. And in fact, I'm using a machine to breathe.
 Y necesito que hagan algo al respecto, por favor. And I need something to be done in respect to this, please. Porque todo lo que los oficiales estn haciendo es inefectivo. Because everything that the officers are doing or the officials are doing is not effective. Y con todo respeto, esos oficiales no estn lo suficientemente capacitados para lidiar con esta situacin.
 And respectfully, those officers aren't sufficiently qualified to deal with this condition. El siguiente asunto es de la basura. The next topic is trash. Le dej saber a la oficina del llano. I let it be known at the office in Llano. No, Alexandra Anelo.
 Alexandra Anello. And up till now, she has not given me an appointment to discuss this situation. Yes, I also spoke to your office, Your Honor, and they let me know that Mr. Camilo was gonna deal with this issue.
 I don't want negative responses from this trash supervisor. I don't want negative responses from this trash supervisor.
 And I also want to let you know that he's not qualified for this position. No tiene ni idea de lo que significa posicin de supervisor. Seor Rico, no puede insultar a los empleados de la ciudad. No estoy insultando. Yo le estoy dejando saber eso al seor mayor. Porque es mi obligacin como ciudadano americano dejarle saber qu es lo que est pasando. Entonces, de qu otra manera van a componer la situacin?
 And what I want to know is what's going on and how you're going to fix the situation. Okay. Y la tercera situacin es de... El 30 de diciembre me pas una situacin de asalto. Yes, and the third topic is I had a situation with an assault on December 30th. Y con todo respeto, otra vez, seor mayor, no puede ver esta clase de oficiales llegndome de esa manera y profesional.
 Yes, I can't have officers coming to me in that unprofessional manner. No, and you haven't enforced the fact that people have to know the rules.
 I just want to follow the rules. You have all the authority, given that I don't have any authority. I don't like most about the situation is that that person came and threatened me.
 Y con todo respeto, ustedes han tenido la culpa porque estas personas se esconden detrs de las autoridades. Yes, and you have the fault in this because you're doing this behind the backs of the authorities. Y ustedes no han hecho nada. And you haven't done a thing. You have done nothing. Le pido de favor, seor Mayor, que si puede hacer algo al respecto, por favor.
 And I ask that you, Mr. Mayor, if you can do something in regards to this, please. Y dejarle saber que si un sargento o un coronel me habla, que me hable, pero que tenga un plan. If a sergeant or a colonel speaks to me, needs to talk to me. No necesita hablarme noms porque s. Cmo, seor? No necesita hablarme noms porque me tiene que hablar, etc. He doesn't have to just talk to me because he has to talk to me. Le pido eso, seor alcalde.
 That's what I'm asking, Your Honor. Gracias. Gracias. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Jason Jones. Mr. Jones' topic is Greenville Theory Bar Noise Violations. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon, sir. My name is Jason Jones. I'm the president of the Damasco Estates Neighborhood Association, and I have been
 Dealing with this issue for over a year now. I've talked to the bar owner for a good six months He's in full he fully understands what's going on what they're doing to us He's made little to no attempt to make any changes whatsoever All my attempts so far with the police department to fix the situation It has completely failed
 Okay, I've had police come to my to come to my house and tell me look if you call the police and we get The ticket we get the call. We're gonna cancel it. We're not coming out. I rarely have anybody come out and in the problem is because it's 70 it's not 70 decibels. So this is so let's get into that El Paso Times. I've read a article recently it came out after you guys passed a new noise ordinance and
 And there was a city official, unnamed city official, who likened 70 decibels to a dishwasher.
 Well, let me tell you guys, if you put a dishwasher out in the back of their property, nobody's going to hear it because it's quiet. My dishwasher is only 56 decibels, and it's quiet. I don't hear it. But that's what it is, 13,164 noise disturbance violations or calls in the previous two years. So to fix that problem, what do you guys do? You raise the decibel limit from 50 to 70 decibels in residential neighborhoods.
 Right problem is basically the problem solved like I said that the police don't want to deal with my issues They could have written so many tickets in those in the previous times, but that's the only part of the problem The other problem is Hertz Versus versus decibels the frequency which those sounds come out So you can have this is and this is from National Institute of Health 80 to 90 Hertz frequency is
 resonates in the back of your skull. It's like a rubber mallet hitting you over and over and over. And that can be, and you can't drown it out with regular noise. You can't just put sleep music on at night. No, it's all night long until 2 a.m., all night long. You guys have a outdoor loudspeaker ordinance. They don't have a permit, but they play until 2 a.m.
 Why is that? Nobody will call them on it. Nobody will call them. I've called the police on multiple occasions about that. Nothing happens. So to you guys, what can you do about this situation?
 And who is willing, Mr. Mayor, council members, who is willing to come to my house at midnight on a Saturday and experience what I've had to experience and the neighborhood has had to experience over the last year? Thank you, Mr. Jones. Your time has expired, sir. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Chris Sequanontiwa, speaking on veterans and cannabis. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon.
 Starlight Projects Foundation is a federally licensed charitable organization and is here in El Paso today because we got called out by the veterans, constituents of this community, to address the issues of social and economic equity that are surmounting and affecting our local communities from thriving and becoming successful and self-sufficient. By definition, a franchise is an authorization granted by a government
 to a company or an individual or a group enabling them to carry out specific activities. These communities often formally known as minority groups have quite frankly become the majority and now these areas have come to be known as opportunity zones in the world of ordinance and finance and with the keyword compliance attached to them. It's important to recognize the differences and the nuances in language when addressing the subsets
 which in reality translate to real communities outside of the black and white of paper. Minority as a label, which we have been assigned, needs to be addressed as disenfranchised communities we serve due to not lack of equal opportunity presented to these communities, but lack of social and economic equity planning involved in making these offers to them. What we're asking every local city government to do is really open a dialogue with its constituents
 Not only to listen, but to create a viable pathway or avenue like a yellow brick road to success. Success not just on paper and in black and white, but change with real results that are sustainable and holistic for the organization of humanity as a whole and as a society. Imagine equality being giving everyone a shoe, making sure everyone gets a pair of shoes.
 but equity is making sure everyone gets the right type of shoe, making sure that that shoe fits and that everyone is comfy when they walk in it. What is the City of El Paso doing to address our open dialogue with veterans and its constituents about cannabis legalization happening next door in our sister state of New Mexico? Well, we're very proud of the city for the great progress and we're really excited about the Korean War Memorial
 How are we addressing the issues that will come from the influx of cannabis to the region? Is there a plan in place to handle the nuances that will occur? Veterans will be severely affected by the daily commute. We're really excited and there's a lot of new scientific data coming out with cannabis, even inhibiting COVID-19. How will the city continue to support our veterans through these difficult times? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is James Seema. Topic is Veterans and Cannabis.
 james good afternoon you have three minutes hi guys i just wanted to introduce one of the veteran constituents he's going to be speaking on behalf of this constituency good morning city council mr sema needs to be the speaker i'm not sure which one of you is james sema okay you need to speak sir since you say you're the one that signed up to speak okay so one of my understandings of the situation if i can look at you because you're the one that understands it better than me is right now there's a
 an issue regarding veterans receiving their medicine, which has to be brought from Austin, Texas. And if the medicine is not able to be...
 directly delivered to the veteran if they if there's some Six in that 600 mile journey if anything goes wrong the veterans can't get their medicine So we'd really like to see some licenses Going out through the social equity pathway locally so that the people can get their medicine especially people that have served our country and really
 These issues aren't going away when we don't address them. Uh, what happens similar to other States is the black market just ends up taking over. And sometimes when we don't approach these problems early on right now, we have a great chance to approach this as a,
 as a community and use this tax revenue to support local initiatives, not just for veterans but for kids and for helping people foster entrepreneurship, building out labs and testing. We need a higher food quality right now across the nation and we need people to explore some of the solutions that we have with regard to food. Personally, for me as a student of biology and medicine, I would really like to see cannabis be the key for us to looking at the plants,
 as a source of medicine because they have so many less side effects and plants in general have been vilified and crucified by the industries which dates back to Rockefeller and other big pharmaceutical companies that get most of their medicine from and are financially tied to oil companies.
 So until we can rewind the science and figure out how we got so deeply in this mess where, you know, a lot of us in our cities, we have big empty gardens in our backyards and there's a lot of room for us to cultivate fresh, healthy foods. But some of the barriers...
 in our compliance and legalization pathways for some of these ancient indigenous medicines are kind of not only blocking us from making all this tax money that we can use to build better schools, we can use to build a pathway for the state of Texas to...
 really shine as the star that it is. This state has stood for guns to be maintained in terms of rights. In terms of other areas where our rights are being taken away, you know, this state is one that stands on the Constitution. In a time where our rights are under attack, we really need Texas to stand for veterans instead of vilifying them for smoking weed. So I'd love some support from you guys. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Michael Castro. Mr. Castro's topic is cannabis decriminalization. Mr. Castro, if you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. You're on mute, sir. Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Castro, Mr. Castro, you're still on mute. Star six will unmute your telephone. Michael Castro, good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, you have three minutes, sir.
 hi good afternoon city council mayor good afternoon um so again you guys what the people of el paso are going to be asking for is el paso city council's help and the reason we're coming to you guys for help it's not only veterans who are at risk but it's anyone over the age of 21 years of age who decides to come into new mexico sunland park new mexico to be exact or top it out new mexico coming april 1st with a state id 21 years of age
 and older. All they have to do is walk into the dispensary and purchase. They can purchase up to two ounces of cannabis at any dispensary. They can purchase up to 800 milligrams of edibles at any dispensary, and they can purchase up to 16 grams of concentrate at any dispensary. So we have to realize that, again, you guys, we've been coming to you guys for the past two years, and honestly, we need your help.
 We're not going to stop. We're not going to stop talking to you guys about how cannabis can help the city, how it's affecting the younger generation, how it's affecting our veterans, how it's affecting people right now in Texas or in El Paso, Texas, who have Texas medical cards. So currently right now I'm sitting right here outside of my dispensary, Ultra Health, where I'm currently on a break.
 smoking a joint here in New Mexico, in Sunland Park, New Mexico, 100% legal. I'm not a criminal, you guys. So for anyone to be placed in handcuffs or given citations for exactly what, I can literally see UTEP from where I'm at right now. I'm literally looking at UTEP.
 So you guys have to understand that this is happening right next door and we need your help. You know, we can get statistical, we can get scientific on you guys, but really it's that we're at a time now where the city itself needs to protect the people. Right? You guys need to help us because state laws aren't going to help us. Right?
 You guys need to help the state change, and that's really important. I hope you guys understand that. All right? City Council, we're not going to stop. We're going to keep coming to you guys. Again, there's two dispensaries that sit right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. Coming April 1st, you guys, there's going to be over five dispensaries, recreational dispensaries, that sit right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. And it's probably going to be more than that.
 Because the amount of wheat that New Mexico can produce is not going to be enough for the people or for the demand that El Paso is going to bring itself. All right, do you guys realize that? El Paso market is going to completely sell out the entire New Mexico, southern part of New Mexico region.
 market, right? It's already been proven, it's been stated, and it's 100% going to happen because of the people in El Paso. So we have to realize that, guys. 21 and over, we gotta protect the city, we gotta get educated together. It's been two years and I really haven't heard much from any of city council representatives, including the mayor. I'm very educated, you guys. Thank you, Mr. Castro. You've reached the time limit, thank you. The next speaker is Fennel Pierre.
 I don't see Mr. Pierre in council chambers. Ms. Shek, will you be coming up to use the remaining time you have? Ms. Shek, Ms. Shek, will you be returning to the podium? Okay, Ms. Shek will return another day. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you, Ms. Pryor. We were supposed to have a break at 1130, so we got a motion to recess for 30 minutes.
 1230, you're on till 1. There's a motion to recess. Is there a second? There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting for 30 minutes. All in favor? Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? You're opposed? Let me take a roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Rodriguez?
 Are you in favor of the 30-minute break? Rivera? Lizardo? The motion passes. The City Council meeting is in recess at 1229 p.m. for a 30-minute break. All in favor? Aye. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 105 p.m. We continue with the operational focus updates with item number 20 with a strategic communications update and City TV.
 afternoon uh good afternoon council let me bring up the presentation if it will let me control for the record laura cruz acosta communications director for the city of el paso and my presentation is item number 20 and so we're going to bring that up so you all should be able to see the uh the presentation on the screen we're going to be talking about as i mentioned a couple of weeks ago we're going to be talking a little bit about
 the City TV programming. And what I want to mention to you all is, I'd like to be able to bring this to you all to show to the community in general, the work that our City TV staff is doing in terms of the Your City in 5 programming and be able to showcase the services of the community services that the city is working on in relation to a number of different projects.
 So as a little bit of background information, so City TV was first aired in 2008 and it was actually the first government agency that was given access to programming services for the municipal services. Our staff is the staff of about three folks. They are in charge of producing, editing, and designing the programming for the City TV programming.
 In addition to that, they're actually also responsible, these three individuals are actually responsible for airing the council meetings as well as airing all the special meetings, the 12 board meetings, and the county meeting as well. In addition to being able to produce and edit and air your City in 5 programming, such as for the health of it, the programming that we produce for Bliss in terms of Southern City Bliss, the podcast and news for you, which is an internal program,
 employee program where we help make sure that we're communicating the benefits to our employees as well as any other special programming that we have our own employees and then of course the special programming elf on the shelf the trolley tracks and I'll showcase the elf on the shelf in this presentation for you all
 We also, City TV folks also participate in our community meetings as well as special events in order to record all of those and they develop also the PSAs for example a lot of the COVID PSAs that you've seen out there with our special ambassador Miss Victoria they also produced that one. So I'm going to go to the next slide in terms of the YC5. I want to air the last YC5 that we produced for you all and I'm going to bring it up here.
 We begin with a pandemic and a surge of cases spurred by the Omicron variant. Hello, I'm your host Ricky Saez. Local leaders are urging everyone to continue to fight against the virus by practicing recommended guidelines. We want to talk today about what's going on in our community. Mayor Oscar Leaser and County Judge Ricardo Samaniego joined forces to encourage the community to protect themselves and loved ones against the virus.
 COVID cases remain high and hospitalizations are increasing. Public Health now urging parents to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, people with COVID-19 symptoms are asked to get tested, stay home and isolate from others for at least five days. It is better to prevent this infection by getting vaccinated. Omicron is one of the variants of the COVID virus, which has been proven to be more infectious, meaning there's going to be a lot of people that you know around you or even yourself
 that are gonna be infected with COVID. The message to fight the virus has not changed. Wear a mask indoors or in large crowds, get vaccinated or boosted, practice good hygiene by washing your hands. Testing and vaccination locations can be found at epstrong.org. The Public Health Department is starting off the new year by reminding everyone about the services and programs available to women, infants, and children. We take a closer look at the WIC program that's helping our community.
 Good morning, Ms. Pueblos. I'm Norma, from the WIC program. The WIC program offers nutrition education, breastfeeding support, referrals to social and health care services, as well as healthy food packages for women, infants, and children. To qualify for the WIC program, a participant must live in El Paso or hospice area,
 They must qualify through income guidelines. They must meet certain income guidelines and also be of category, which would be women who are pregnant, who have had a baby, who are breastfeeding, infants, and then children up to the age of five.
 Erica, are you ready? Hi. Yes. We know that for pregnant mom who are participating in the WIC program, studies have shown that they have better outcomes of having a healthy delivery, a healthy baby. We also know that it helps our children lower the risk of certain diseases such as obesity, diabetes, because we equip them, empower them with education, nutrition education, and support.
 We try to provide services all around the El Paso and county area. So we do have 12 WIC centers around the city. And we also have a mobile unit that goes to the outskirts of the county. For example, Tornillo, Sierra Blanca. Breastfeeding can actually burn up to 200 to 500 calories a day. Citizenship is not a requirement to qualify in the WIC program as long as they live in El Paso.
 and they can provide us a proof that they live here, whether it's maybe a letter they're living with a relative or anything with their name and address here in El Paso County. Or if you have a child, you have an infant, you're pregnant, or you've had a baby, just come to the WIC program, ask about what kind of services, whether it's right for you. Thank you to Jose Solis for putting together that video. To learn more about the WIC program, go ahead and visit the Department of Public Health online.
 Residents have an opportunity to participate in the ongoing redistricting process. The City's Redistricting Commission has held a few meetings already, but more are scheduled. The redistricting process will establish new voting districts for City representatives that will stay in place for the next decade. Boundaries are redrawn at the local, state and federal level every 10 years following the census. Public input for the City Council boundaries is encouraged.
 Information on the process and upcoming meetings is posted on the Shape EP website. That website is at the bottom of your screen. There's a new member of the family at the El Paso Zoo, Meet Hadari. The four-year-old male now calls El Paso home. He's been at the zoo in the quarantine since November, but now he's out ready to meet the public. His move to the zoo from Colorado came in part through a $5,000 donation by the El Paso Downtown Lions Club. We're excited that lions are be able to provide a lion to the zoo.
 We hope you would enjoy, the whole community will enjoy them for a long time. It was hugely appreciated that the Lions Club stepped up with that $5,000 to help pay for that transport and also for care and food and the treats we give them and everything else for the Lions. So those kind of donations are just greatly appreciated. Hudari joins fellow lionesses Azari and Malika as part of a breeding recommendation. You can see Hudari and all of the animals at the zoo Wednesday through Sunday.
 Thousands of pets in our city are healthier and safer thanks to the efforts of animal services. The shelter recently held a drive-thru pet wellness clinic where pet owners had a chance to take their pets to get vaccinated and microchipped, all free of charge. More than 1,000 pets received care from shelter staff, volunteers, and shelter partners like Petco Love and 24 Pet Watch.
 The wellness event was a welcome sight for pet owners who took advantage of the service. We just want to thank all the pet parents that made it out to this free clinic. You know, we were able to protect more than a thousand pets for this upcoming year from treatable but very dangerous diseases like parvo and distemper. This is our effort at El Paso Animal Services to not only care for the animals in the shelter, but also take care of those animals in the community that
 also need us as well. Animal Services anticipates hosting another pet wellness clinic in February. Make sure to follow the shelter on social media to find out when the next event will be. We're out of time on this edition of Your City in 5 and now we're off to go cover some other city happenings but for now from Mario Ramirez who's in front of the camera, I'm Ricky Saez. Stay safe and please be kind to each other. We'll see you next time on Your City in 5. Let's go. YC5! They have a lot of fun with that too.
 The next slide or the next video really that I want to present to you is one of my favorites that we've done this year or this past year is our Elf on the Shelf campaign. The Elf on the Shelf campaign is extraordinarily popular and you will recognize one of the folks in this presentation. That's right it's me I am the original Elf on the Shelf. No worries kids.
 but I've got to get to Santa and show him that I've been nice. I know he likes to hang out at Winterfest, but where can I find him? Can you help me? Well, we saw a guy in a red suit over... You did? That may be him. I've got to go. Santa Claus! I finally found you! I've searched everywhere and you're here!
 Original Elf, what the heck are you doing running around San Jacinto Plaza? Well, I'm looking at the lights, I'm talking to the kids, I'm doing good deeds, and I found Santa! Did you bring my hot chocolate and my churros the way I asked you to? Santa, I've done so many good deeds, can I get off the naughty list?
 Well, I don't know. I don't know if I believe you this time. You've done a lot of good things, but we're going to have to discuss this further when we get back to the office. Please, please, Santa. I've got to get out the naughty list. Tell me what I can do. Okay, well just help me deliver these presents to the millions of kids around the world and right here in El Paso, and I'll think about it. Santa, I sit on the shelf every single year. That sounds like a lot of work. It is.
 Okay, yes please props to Carrie, Deputy City Manager, Senior Deputy City Manager Carrie Weston for his amazing acting skills.
 So we did a series with the Elf on the Shelf. The concept was that the Elf had misbehaved during the week or during the year rather and even sent coal to the city council members in the initial presentation. The full actual season of the 2012 season of Elf on the Shelf is actually
 On the presentation, you can see it. It's on our YouTube channel that you can watch at any point in time in terms of everything that's happened. This one that we just presented to you is one of my favorites. My next favorite, which I highly recommend you watch, is the recycling one.
 because we do take advantage of the ELF on the Shelf in terms of providing information about our services. All of the videos that we provide really focus on the services that the city provides and working to educate our community on all of the programming and services that we offer to our community.
 The last thing that I wanted to mention is to take advantage here in order to give you a little bit more information. We certainly encourage all of the information that we provide to our community is posted on our social media pages in addition to being shared with the community through the traditional and non-traditional media.
 for our social media pages as we have seen an increase in terms of the services that we provide facebook instagram twitter and youtube we ask that you please feel free to share this information on your own social media pages as well as being encouraging folks to follow us on our social media platforms
 so that they can get more information about all of the services that we provide in addition to the work that we're doing that the council is doing in particular whether it be with the redistricting whether it be with the bond whether it be with just the general services later today i'll be able to send you all a standalone video related to the wic program that you just saw it's a standalone video it's a little bit longer that provides more information about the wic services and that concludes the presentation thank you
 Representative Lozargo. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Laura, for your presentation. Do we track engagements with constituents on social media? We do. Okay. And so if someone sends a complaint, right, or a request on Facebook Messenger, and they are, or leaves a comment,
 Yes, ma'am. Do we answer them? Yes, ma'am. We have an answer rate of about 98% Muslims. Okay. And do we know the number of engagements per month or per year on social media? So the average engagement on some of our social media is about 150, a little over 150,000 folks. Oh, wow. Okay.
 Thank you. These are my questions. And with that, we have a parent. Yeah. What was that number again? Excuse me. Go ahead. What was that number again? You said it's about 150,000 for the year. For the year. That's a monthly average. How do you factor that? So what's the monthly average again? The monthly average of engagement? Yeah. It varies every month, but the average is 150.
 So one of the things I guess I'm trying to understand right is is sort of where where the sort of where the growth and direction of our of our strategic communications is going you make mention that we have 57,000 viewers on Facebook or or I guess it's followers is what that's described as. Yes sir. Twitter we have 43,000.
 YouTube it doesn't list how many subscribers we have to the channel, but it lists how many views we have. We have about 1500 subscribers. Okay. I guess what I'm trying to understand and maybe I think we're going to be having these these updates more regularly for strategic communications. City Manager, I guess as a follow up, I'd try to understand. Yes, sir. And that's the reason why she's doing this. Actually, because
 um the council talked about today i think it's very timely that we decided to do this ahead of that those kind of points and questions you said earlier about like the bond you know how having more information about the bond package and what's been done already so i've asked our communications director in her department for her to give more updates laura to give more updates and to get more engagement and interaction with the council you have a lot of great ideas and we want to incorporate those
 She's done a great job incorporating some of the different thoughts that we as a staff have brought to the table that she's brought to the table. She mentioned some of them that she presented today. They've gone viral. It increases the numbers as she's pointed out. They've integrated the services in order to again get that interest, get that engagement. So there's other ways to get that. We're more than happy to do that. I know one of the things
 that they've gotten feedback on is to do more TikToks, for example, for animal services. And if you go to the TikTok page, they've got a ton of videos. And so they've really pushed that out. I think what I'd like her to do in the future is kind of give you all a better aggregation or a better mountain view or a 30,000-foot view of all the different things they are doing. And then we can get honed in on certain areas based on the interaction we have with the council.
 Okay. So I guess maybe what I'm trying to understand a little bit better is kind of year over year what kind of growth we're seeing, right? Because I guess these numbers as it relates towards how many people are following us on our social media channels are sort of without context.
 Knowing sort of year-over-year the metrics, you know, it did last you did last year Did we have fifty five thousand an hour at sixty thousand, you know, did we have forty five thousand in 2020? We actually provide that information we provided every during all of the updates that we provided for the budget period We can certainly include that data here. This one in particular is a
 We've seen depending on each one of them, we've seen a growth in all of our social media platforms, but I'll provide a greater detail in the next presentation. What is what is our strategies as it relates towards social media engagement? I know that oftentimes when there's when there's different posts or anything or or different posts, oftentimes there's a lot of different comments and very rarely do I see that that the city of El Paso kind of engages.
 or or responds with with with information from them do we have like an official strategy or we just kind of letting people just kind of comment whatever are we looking at at do we have somebody within the within the strategic communications office that is monitoring we do monitor we do monitor some of those postings depending on the topic um is very highly charged and uh we do have conversations with those individuals we do
 ask the community members to please make sure to be polite and not combative. And so those individuals that are a little bit combative, we've learned the hard way that being combative, being able to answer at some point is not going to be, is not going to give them the answer that they want. And so we engage them as far as we can. And we also have DM conversations with them in order to help provide solutions with those
 Um, do we have an idea or can you report in future reports how many, how many meetings that, that, that the strategic communications department is having with, with local media in terms of pitching of stories or just of, of relationship building with the different, with the different, um, news outlets that we have here as well?
 you know i think that's that's also part two is you know i have daily conversations with the assignments editors yeah no no absolutely that's great i just don't know if we're if we're how we're meeting with them i think that'd be better to understand that as well also in terms of metrics with how many sort of meetings per quarter and that sort of thing would be would be great as well
 Another thing too is, you know, we have a very, I mean, everybody knows here we have a very unique community. We're blessed to be nestled between three states, two countries with one heart. One of the things too that's unique about that is that we have probably one of the largest bilingual communities in the world, yet our social media doesn't really reflect that. Most of our social media posts as well as graphics are principally in English.
 So I'd also like to sort of see what we can do either within the sort of captions within Instagram or TikTok or Facebook to have those be able to be available in English and Spanish, but also really thinking too with kind of the video content as well as some of the graphics that we are either able to show a Spanish and English version or a
 or both Spanish and English at the same time, or at least different options. I mean, the number one media channel when it comes towards TV is not an English speaking channel, it's a Spanish speaking one in El Paso. And I just think that we can look at doing more to sort of honor the unique identity that we have here.
 so just so you know all of our videos that are posted are are captioned as spanish as well we do obtain captioning in spanish is that like captioning through like auto captioning yes no not auto captioning we actually do the captioning their cultural captioning culture and that's done in-house or that's like a software or how is it how is it primarily done in-house yes okay
 Okay. So still a lot of the, I don't think that's necessary that's shown with the language and the captions that it's available for Spanish or that we have the captions that are both in English and Spanish? The person has to click on the captioning themselves because the captions are not automatic whether it be in English or in Spanish. You have to click on it. And so for example, if
 So in this one, if you click on subtitles. We begin with a pandemic and a surge of cases spurred by the Omicron variant. Hello, I'm your host, Ricky Saez. Local leaders are urging everyone to continue to fight against the virus by practicing recommended guidelines.
 It depends on your own computer in terms of how you use that. Mayor Osterhuister and County Judge Ricardo Samaniego. That's their YouTube. What are we, what is, how does that, that? On Facebook we program it, we upload it as an individual, as a captioning for the Spanish. Okay. Well, if that's the case, I don't really think, I don't really think that that is, that is made, that is made very aware with how we're posting these. Sure. So I just think that that might be something that,
 that we just might want to think about like even just something where we post a video that we have something that's in Spanish that says you know that's something that's able to caption in Spanish that says you know click on the CC button for a Spanish version or something like that so we actually do post on social media in terms of in Spanish the best example that I can have for you is
 I'm looking at the January 14th for the City in 5 post and there's nothing there in the language that says like available in Spanish. So for example, and we can do this for the your City in 5, but for example, if you see my screen right now on Fact Friday, we say Subtitulos en Espaol.
 Yes, I think that's that's the right. That's the right case there. Um do we see more? Do we see where do we see most of the most of the interaction there? Because I know that a lot of the videos on youtube right now show 200 views, 150 views. Where do we where where are our metrics and our analytics showing where we have most people interact with city of El Paso content? I would need to go back and look at that. Okay. Um and in
 and then okay so then the other the other question that i have as well relates towards you the overall the strategic communications department how many employees do we have currently i guess pio office i don't know what the official nomenclature is we have 12. so we have 12 employees yes sir okay thank you okay we can always come back to you but uh we appreciate uh your questions um representative rodriguez
 Thank you. Laura, really quick. In the past, I know my office has received complaints from our social media posts, not the city's necessarily, but ours, in terms of having to describe the, you know, we post a picture describing what the picture says, and this is for the hearing impaired. And so my question is,
 Do you all have any training that you all can provide for us as to how we can do that so that we're in uniform with whatever y'all are doing? Yes, and we've actually provided it to all of your legislative aides and city staff. And when was the last time that that happened? Probably three months ago was the last time. Three months ago, okay, all right. So we provided it, to my knowledge, we provided it twice to your all staff.
 Sounds good then. And I do have a new admin assistant, so if we can get the training for her as well, please. Sure. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, and I'm sure if anyone needs a refresher course, Of course. Ms. Costa would be more than glad to do that. So with that, thank you very much. Mayor, I did that. Yes, sir. Go ahead. I didn't know if anybody else had. One of the other questions I have as well was relating to the,
 Also the city and five. How many employees typically do we have that are involved in making these videos? So on average one of the video is usually three folks. Three people. You know the videos usually range I guess what from six minutes to eight minutes long. I know it's city and five but
 I mean, I've said it before. I just I think that when we're looking at keeping people's attention online, when we're looking at at ways to engage also our news outlets, you know, people's people's attention spans are very different.
 in this generation than they were 20 years ago or 30 years ago or in some ways even just 10 years ago. And content that I think goes that long, I don't know how many people, I don't know if you're even able to look minute by minute to see how many people are watching one of the City and Fives before they sort of turn off. I'd be interested to sort of see that, and I just wonder what we can think about doing in terms of, you know, how we
 in terms of creating other ways to sort of summarize what the city is doing, what we're working on, what the council voted on. I know that we have the sort of city recaps there, but even though they're a little bit longer, I think anything that's over two minutes tends to really be hard for people's attention to stay along with. Sure. So to address some of those concerns, one of the, we've done a couple of different things. We've created the fact Friday, for example, the programming that we post online as well. And we also have, um, standalone videos.
 so from those videos from yc5 one of the things that we've done is created smaller packages as i mentioned to you we had that wic program within the presentation for your city in five we pulled that out as a standalone and i'd be glad to share it with you all it's about a two minute programming in terms of it it goes into a little bit more detail with the wic program but it reduces it significantly in terms of the services okay
 and then the other thing too i think is is also ways that um and again i think this is an ongoing conversation but um i know that that you know there's a lot of collaboration that's done between departments i know the city manager is very big on encouraging cross-functionality among departments i think because there's a lot of overlap with how how our offices function
 and and the function of our PIO and strategic communications department that I think that there's ways for synergy and more collaboration between the two. A lot of our responsibilities as elected officials is to help disseminate that information. Um and I think if there is a way to have more of a liaison position or more of engagement between the public information office and our city offices,
 not just in terms of disseminating content but coming up with ideas and helping to create content with the different district council offices i think is also something to to to explore as well because i think when we're able to have more of a meaningful engagement i think with the pio office and the individual council offices i think it will come better off and and
 and you know especially when it comes towards maybe the ideas of different sort of content creation story ideas all of us know our districts pretty well because we we live and breathe it every single day you know we understand what are the projects where are the concerns that we're hearing about from our neighborhoods from our neighborhood associations and so coming up with ideas of how to engage it and how to communicate I think would be a positive thing to look at over the next couple quarters
 So my staff actually does reach out to you all on a periodic basis in order to host different events. For example, the event that I understand the last one example is this weekend. We are actually hosting District 1 and 2 in terms of the scenic drive component.
 So we drafted the press release for you all and we drafted and we're planning to be out there in terms of the video production, city TV programming as well as social media components. In addition to drafting the talking points for you all and details in that respect. The other thing that we also reach out to you all in terms of our PSA is we've produced in the past. We've reached out to the council members.
 in order to be able to participate in some of the PSAs that we produce. We'll be reaching out to you in the next several months in order to do updated promotions, for example with our Live Active program as it relates particularly to the health and services of our community.
 um in an attempt to do more to prevent the covet pandemic and impact on our health they also coordinated with council on capital projects like um openings of new ones and also promoting it and and having council do you know videos i forget which one it was there was one year where y'all did something that was
 It was it was funny. I forget what it was, but it was it was good. I think all America. Yeah, the all America one. But there were some other ones where we've involved the council. I think that what we're hearing in mayor Pro Temp's very good points is just to do more of the things we've been doing and engage more. And I think it's a very.
 helpful to get the type of insights that you're sharing with regard to like you want a year-to-year comparison things of that nature There's no different than what we do in every other department. So it's a good juxtaposition to are we seeing progress? Are we seeing movement? Are we seeing a strategic? Initiative to how we're doing it. Are we seeing a strategic movement of how we doing what we're doing? and I think that
 I believe that when we come back we'll show you that those things have gotten even more impressive and but there's more to do and I know that in social media the time frame of keeping people's attention is 15, 20 seconds something along those lines so they can come back and work on different smaller type of videos that can get more of a reach in different areas in terms of the social media.
 and i think it's it's really important and i'm not i'm not saying we're not doing anything i'm saying let's think about what what more we can do absolutely that's the reason the tick tock piece i mentioned because there's a lot of those videos are really quick really short uh animal services is a good example of how we've tried to engage the community on on different levels and so we have other examples like that and now that we know kind of what the line of questions are we can fashion the future presentations to show
 all the progress they're doing and or anything we're going to add to the mix because we can always get better that's any department we can always get better what we're doing but they're doing a phenomenal job because i was thinking too you know when you're talking about content you're talking about videos being able to say for engage engaging representative rivera to sort of sit down in terms of doing say like a series of short form videos or tick tock videos about some projects that that have been going on going on in his district that have since been completed right like
 That's a really great way to sort of engage on a sort of granular level the kind of engagement and the kind of successes we're seeing with the community. I also think it's really important as we begin this process about figuring out a bond to also talk about what is the things that we've been doing, the fact that we have done.
 about resurfacing of 400 streets in four years, 200 capital improvement projects. These are things that we need to not just talk about but show as well and I think that with our great strategic communications department we have the ability to do that. I just wanted to clarify a little bit further in terms of the bilingual nature of our content. I think it's great that we have the ability for the closed captions that are generated through
 through the department as well but I think we really need to think too about when it comes towards CG's, when it comes towards titles, when it comes towards graphics, how we can go and bake that into the cake if you will in terms of having titles, names and other departments that are both displayed in the videos both in Spanish and in English without closed captioning. You know, the thing that's interesting is
 you know social media is very much a visual caption and how people take in that information there's always options to do that obviously i'm love to talk about this so if you have any other ideas or you're interested in talking further i'm always open and available thank you thank you sir mr prime yes mayor that brings us to the first reading of ordinances these are items 21 to 35. second
 there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative rodriguez to approve the first reading of ordinances on that motion call for the vote representative anelo yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to page 10. this is item number 36
 Which is discussion in action that the director of the purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to data mark Inc referencing contract 2015 687 our customer service call center staffing and management service operations move to approve second There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Rodriguez to approve
 molinar representative molinar make the most 28 years 35 years i got it thank you the motion made by representative seconded by representative rodriguez to approve on that motion call for the vote representative anello all right thank you representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 The next item is number 37, which is discussion and action that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to data mark Inc. For the 2022-0393 customer service call center staffing and management service operations for the fire department. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Anelo? Aye. Aye.
 hernandez yes in the voting session and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes item number 38 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1471 animal services hvac improvements rebid to triple a general contractors llc moved to approve there's motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative rivera to approve on that motion call for the vote representative anello
 hernandez yes in the voting session and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes item number 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 15 public services section 15.08.150 shared mobility devices to update permit term and renewal requirements second there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative rodriguez to approve there is no public comment on this item
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anelo? Hernandez? Yes. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 40 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title VII, Animals, Chapter 7.04, Definitions and Administration, Chapter 7.08, Animals Generally, Chapter 7.12, Dogs and Cats, Chapter 7.15, Grooming Services, and Chapter 7.28, Animals Shelter Advisory Committee. Move to approve. Second.
 there is a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative rodriguez to approve there's no public comment on this item call for the vote representative anelo hernandez yes in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to the end representative hernandez has a request
 Hi, Mayor, may I make a motion to reconsider item 15 for a quick floor amendment? Yes, ma'am. Absolutely. I move to reconsider item 15. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 15. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 the motion passes we're on item number 15 on page six which is discussion in action for city council to approve a resolution recognizing the korean war veteran association colonel joseph c rodriguez medal of honor chapter 249 for their efforts with texas state senator cesar blanco through the passage of sb 1704 to erect state highway signage honoring korean war memorial veterans and supports the highway signage project
 designating a segment of Patriot Freeway US 54 as a Korean War Memorial Highway. Thank you. And my motion is to add the word on the item itself for the action item. At the end it says Korean War Memorial Highway. It should say Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway. So it would add the word veterans. On
 on action item 15 and then on page two of the resolution it will also reflect on item number five the same thing it should state the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway which is the last the last four words of the of the resolution. Is that clear Mrs. Prine? Yes ma'am.
 And that's to make sure that it reads Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway on the posting language and also on the resolution page two under item five. Correct. Second. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to amend the posting language and the resolution as read into the record by Representative Molinar to correct the name to Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway.
 representative hernandez seconded by representative molinar thank you sir on the motion on the amendment call for the vote representative anelo hi hernandez yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously may we have a motion to approve as amended so moved second there's a motion made by representative anelo seconded by representative hernandez to approve
 As revised on that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anelo Hernandez? Yes. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 the regular city council meeting for wednesday january 19 2022 is adjourned at 1 50 p.m council we need about 10 minutes to leave this team's meeting link return to yesterday's work session meeting link and set up for to reconvene the work session so we need about 10 minutes please all right so we'll see you all in 15. thank you mayor closer to two o'clock thank you
 Yes, we will be meeting upstairs. We need to... But it will start here. Yes, we need to reconvene in chambers, and then we can retire into executive session. Correct. Thank you very much. We just need about 10 minutes to set up