Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, January 18, 2023. Present and presiding inside council chambers is Mayor Leaser, along with Mayor Pro Tem Anello, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Fierro, Representative Rivera, Representative Canales has requested to be excused. It is 9.06 a.m.
 Now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Ministry Coordinator for the El Paso County Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferroni. Good morning, everyone. And before I pray, I want to acknowledge the tremendous loss that our city has experienced as we grieve the loss of a great leader, Chief Greg Allen.
 I'm sure that all of us have a sense of tremendous loss and my condolences to his family, to the police department, to our city, to our leaders. For many years, Greg Allen's leadership has been an inspiration and an example for all of us. He leaves behind a tremendous legacy for us. I want to share scripture before I pray as well from 2 Corinthians 1, verses 3 and 4.
 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction so that we will be able to comfort those who are in affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. If you'd care to join me by bowing your heads as I pray. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, bring comfort, healing, and hope.
 to all of us who grieve so deeply today. The death of Greg Allen is a huge loss to our police officers and to the citizens of El Paso. May his example of leadership continue to inspire us in the days ahead. I pray today for my mayor, city manager, and city representatives, that you will bless them, watch over them, protect them, and give them wisdom and directions
 in the decisions that must be made today and in the days ahead. Teach us that life is fragile and uncertain, and teach us to truly value our loved ones and our fellow man. May we be dedicated to the things that are truly important, the things that really make a difference in the lives of those around us. Please watch over and bless all who protect our freedom and those who keep us safe. Add your grace to this meeting today
 God bless El Paso and God bless America. I pray in the name of the Lord, amen. God bless you. God bless you, sir, thank you. This morning to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance are students from Jack and Jill of America, El Paso, Southern New Mexico chapter. We have Malaya Quintine, Golden Mariah Ward, Janelle Elizabeth Ward,
 olomiya kuhn adedeji kieran adams jerry adev mosley joshua eric mosley nila thomas kelichi alozi ogana alozi imika joshua anekwe odara anekwe adana chikwendo ikena chikwendo chido ikam charles brown carlton brown jr and caitlyn brown
 of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, and invisible for the Texas flag. We do this to the Texas flag. We have a certificate for you all. Now, they all came to hear you all. We've never had this many people here, and that's because you all are here today. Isn't that great? Thank you.
 Can I have everybody push back? And for the record, Representative Kennedy is also president of council chambers. Is this okay? Can you get a little bit over here? Somebody wants to smile. Thank you all. Thank you for coming to visit City Hall and thank you for coming to my office. You all have a wonderful, wonderful weekend. Come back when you want to. Come back on Saturday. You know, we're going to have to have them come every day. We've never had this many people come here, and I know they're all here to see them, so
 Thank you all for being here and have a good day. Before we get started, the city has lost a great leader and a great friend. And it's hard to believe that today I sit here and talk about our police chief, the guy that's dedicated his life since 1978 to the El Pasoans, El Paso Police Department, and became police chief.
 in 2008 and I can tell you that when I was in office before and this time that the men and women of the El Paso Police Department loved, respected and will continue to do the work because of Chief Allen. We lost Chief Allen way too early and I can tell you that words kind of escaped me as I sit there and think about him because
 There's some stories that the man was, he always knew where you stood with him, and there was no gray area. And that's something that I admired. Now there's some stories we can't repeat, but as you all would know, if you ever knew Chief Allen, but he had, his heart was always with his family and his dogs. He loved animals and his community, and he loved the men and women of the El Paso Police Department. And I can tell you that,
 The text messages and emails that we've received from law enforcement, not only around El Paso but around the state, tells you the respect that everyone had for him. You're never prepared, and we're not prepared to lose a friend, someone that I just talked to a few days ago and didn't even know he was in the hospital because he would take the phone call while he was there, and he was working from there, and no one even knew he was there. So I want you to keep him, Roseanne.
 his family, and everyone in our prayers. Like I said, I'm actually heartbroken and lost for words that I won't be able to pick up that phone and call him just to say hello, just have a conversation, two friends just talking on a weekend or at night. And he meant a lot to me and our family, which is everyone in here, which is the city of El Paso. And I just want y'all to remember him for who he was,
 which was a great El Pasoan, a great citizen, and an incredible human being. You didn't always have to agree with him, but I guarantee you he did it for the right reasons, and there's no ifs and buts about that. And if you wanted his opinion, all you had to do was ask it because he'd give it to you. And I respected it. I love the man, and I'll miss him forever. Thank you. Can we have a moment of silence? Thank you. May God bless America, and may God bless this wonderful city of El Paso. Amen. Yes, sir.
 Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mayor. My name is Joe Molinar. I am a city representative for District 4, and yesterday I lost a great true friend. Back in 1984, I joined the El Paso Police Department and served my community. I retired as a police lieutenant. But it's not about me today, it's about our leader, Gregory Allen, and I can tell you
 That man was something else. If you ever met that man, if you ever talked to the man, if you ever listened to that man, the guidance, the direction, his philosophy on policing, the blue family, and I'm talking about the men and women, the backbone of this police department, for the El Paso Police Department, respect. That's one word that I'm gonna say. Every day, that man had respect for his officers, and I hate to use this word, civilian, but his non-uniform,
 He treated people with respect, he got the job done. We're one of the safest cities in the nation.
 under his direction and there's other things too, but I can tell you day in day out He did the job and so the highest respects my condolences to an entire family to my blue family my condolences and Chief Allen ID number six four six one of the last three Three digit ID numbers still serving on the El Paso Police Department. May he rest in peace. Thank you. I
 Thank you, sir. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, everything's pretty much well said about Greg, Chief Allen. He was a unique individual to work for. He was a unique individual to meet. I have the distinct privilege of having worked for him and met him since 1982, and the gentleman was genuine.
 and has been said before yes you didn't always have to agree with him and he never carried a grudge against you if you didn't it was always okay that's your opinion and there are stories that that acts of kindness that are too many to to to relate here at this moment but uh we did suffer a huge loss uh we i know i was getting calls from austin people who knew him up there and uh
 He just made an impact, a huge impact, both locally, statewide, and nationally. And it's been an honor, and to the people, my fellow colleagues in blue, they walk around with heavy hearts, just like those of us that knew him, were friends with him. So yes, keep his family in his prayers, and keep the El Paso PD personnel in your prayers, all retirees that remember him, worked with him,
 It's been an honor and it's been a pleasure to have known the gentleman known as Chief Greg Allen. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, sir. And I can tell you one last thing I'm going to say. At the age of 71, the chief felt that he still had a lot to give back to our community, and he was not going to retire. He wanted to go to work and continue to serve and protect. Thank you. With that, Ms. Pryor.
 Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's Proclamations. The first proclamation is ZTECH Day. Representative Nunes. Hi, good morning. This is a proclamation of the City of El Paso, where ZTECH's Construction, Inc. was founded in 2006. And I would like to thank the City of El Paso
 and has been providing quality civil construction, contributing to the growth and improvement of the Sun City by being part of projects such as the outlet shops of El Paso, the fountains at Farrah, Westside Crossing Village, the Eastside Sports Complex, and street resurfacing projects. And Z-Tex, if you can make your way to the podium, please.
 And whereas ZTEX serves in our city's communities to make a difference and ensure the community's needs are met, and by fostering employment opportunities within the El Paso County. ZTEX has positively influenced the local economy and forged deeper, more robust community relationships. And through shared vision and values to improve our region, ZTEX builds partnerships with communities by sponsoring and participating in a variety of community events.
 beautification efforts and contributions to honor our veterans communities and whereas the city of El Paso recognizes ZTEX construction Inc for its efforts and commitment to not only build up our area through construction and jobs but also in supporting our communities now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that January 18th 2023 shall be known as ZTEX day and it is signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser congratulations thank you
 Is the mic on? Yes. All right, perfect. First of all, thank you. Thank you very much for the- Your name for the record? What was that? Your name for the record, please. Oh, for the, I apologize. For the record, my name is Joaquin Groyal. I'm the president of ZTEX Construction.
 First of all, thank you for the proclamation. It means a lot. We try to, as we continue striving to grow, and we are a local company, we currently have 384 employees. Again, this is all local work that we do. We do work for the city of El Paso, which is one of our main clients, but we also try to give back. So every time, anything that we do, we try to give back to our employees, but we also try to give back to the community.
 We try to help with cleanups. We try to help with anything that comes up that may be of any importance to our constituents in the area. I mean, I know how important it is, and I know how important it is and how difficult it is to continue growing without the help of our local community. Again, out of those 384 employees,
 All of them are based out of El Paso, working in El Paso. We do not go out. We try to stay here as much as possible. As far as the proclamation goes, again, it means a lot to us. So if there's anything that we can do to help, we're here for you. Thank you. And I think, you know, you're talking about giving back to our community and always being there and
 i've known you all forever and it's you know it's appropriate that today is national mentoring day also and you know it couldn't be at a better time someone that loves and gives back and continues to support our community so thank you for that thank you the following proclamation is pebble hills high school day represents el cido thank you mayor thank you ma'am
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the hard work, dedication, sportmanship, talent, and exceptional team chemistry of the Pebble Hills High School Football Team has enabled the team, athletic trainers, student managers, band cheer and coaches to earn a successful 2022 football season.
 and whereas the Pebble Hills High School Football Team earned its first 10-win season, its first district championship, and its first bi-district championship in school history.
 And whereas the Pebble Hills High School football team ended its football season as the number 24 team in the state of Class 6A, and whereas Pebble Hills High School team defeated all the top football teams in El Paso for the 2022 season, and whereas Pebble Hills High School junior Gail Ochoa was selected as District 1-6A MVP, senior Bobby Deal was selected as District 1-6A defensive MVP,
 Senior Jacob Ledesma was selected as District 168 Athlete of the Year, and sophomore Dorian Jaramillo was selected as District 168 Newcomer of the Year. And whereas Pebble Hills High School Coach T was selected as District
 one 6a coach of the year and whereas the city of El Paso probably honors and recognizes a significant contribution from the entire Pebble Hills high school team and family to our community now there Be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that January the 18 2023 shall be known as Pebble Hills high school day signed by the honorable Oscar mayor Leaser Maybe y'all want to approach the podium. I
 Now I got a question for you guys. Representative Salcido was saying that this was your first one. I just want to ask a simple question. Do we believe this will be the first of many more? Absolutely. Congratulations. I know that great coaching, great players, and thank you for representing our city well, but also for representing yourself. I know you all did a great job.
 you know there's a lot of first in there but i'm very confident that there won't be the last time we get to see you all up here so thank you and congratulations please good morning my name is mark torres i'm the head coach at pebble hills high school on behalf of our administration our school district
 the city, and all the coaches and players in town, we want to thank you for this honor. Well deserved. All the credit goes to the assistant coaches, our school administration, the parents, and the players of our community. It takes a lot of hard work and dedication to achieve what this school and these players achieved throughout this season that began somewhere between three and five years ago.
 The commitment that they have to representing our community at a high level is unmatched in my opinion. I've worked in several schools within the city of El Paso, and we do have something special. And I do guarantee you that this will not be the last time that we represent our fine community in this way. Thank you so much for the honor. Condolences to the city of El Paso.
 The blue for the loss of our chief. I have one of my very best friends serves on the force officer Corey Harrison and You know, I dread that phone call one day should it should it ever come? Thank you all so much on behalf of our community We're glad to represent the city of El Paso's Socorro Independent School District and all of West Texas in the fine manner that we have Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. And it's um coach. It's very obvious that I
 Good leaders are recognized for the job they do even though they don't want it and they don't look for it. And congratulations in being named Coach of the Year. But when you talk about your assistants, they learn from the best. And you were elected and awarded the best coach in the city of El Paso. So thank you and congratulations. And if this morning's honorees will remain in chambers, the council will have the opportunity to take some photos after the last proclamation is read.
 So the next proclamation is National Mentoring Day. Thank you.
 Representative Molinar. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas Big Brothers Big Sisters volunteer mentors commit to their mentee for a minimum of one year and in that year become a dedicated and trusted friend and role model who changes that child's life for the better forever. And whereas children served by Big Brothers Big Sisters often come from families dealing with challenges such as divorce, incarceration, deportation, and military deployments.
 The children themselves are often struggling with school, bullying, low self-esteem, and one-to-one mentoring model that has proven to help the children deal with and improve in all of their life situations.
 Whereas Big Brothers Big Sisters is also proud to offer unique and valuable mental health first aid training to participants as well as the community as a whole along with other trainings and fun relationship strengthening activities for mentors, children, and parents. And whereas young people match with a Big Brothers Big Sisters mentor are much more likely to be leaders, avoid incarceration, and go to college and volunteer. And whereas innovative and
 enhancement like sports mentoring in addition to our traditional community-based mentoring create a life-changing ripple effect for the child and in turn to that child's classroom, school and community. It also positively impacts the child's surrounding family members and the generations that follow. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of January shall be known as National Mentoring Month. Signed the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser.
 Hello Thank you so much for this honor and for having us here we are always thrilled to be recognized by the city and by you mayor Lisa and again our condolences for the tremendous loss of chief Greg Allen he was a staunch advocate of
 of mentoring through our partnership with the El Paso Police Department for the Bigs in Blue program, and we could not be more grateful for his influence in our program and on the youth of El Paso.
 We are thrilled to be able to provide these one-to-one mentoring services that we offer in addition to all of the other enhancements such as our mental health first aid and our sports mentoring that makes it kind of a more fun plug-and-play program.
 But we highly encourage everyone out there to get involved with Big Brothers Big Sisters, be it as a volunteer, as a board member, as a donor, as a partner, as an advocate. Because there are so many youth in El Paso that could benefit from this type of one-to-one mentoring support. And we are just honored to be able to provide something that is so often missing in this world, and that is support.
 human connection. So thank you so much again and thank you for having us. Thank you and thank you for being here and the work you do you know it's important to our community and it's important to the youth and we talk about day in and day out that the
 future of our community is the young people and that's the youth and I think we had a perfect example of Pebble Hills football team that we can see that the future of our country and our city is bright just by looking over there but also by the job you do to continue to help the youth have a self-esteem
 and be able to move forward into the community. And it's so important to have that because everyone deserves a chance and the ability to move forward in life. So thank you, may God bless everyone of y'all. Thank you. Ms. Cline, we're gonna take a recess. Yes, is there a motion to recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting, all in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is on recess at 9.34 a.m. to allow for photos with this morning's honoree. We'll be back what, Friday morning?
 Hopefully sooner than that. Motion to reconvene? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9.48 a.m.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor Pro Tem. I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And that is to excuse Representative Chris Canales from today's meeting. Page 4, item 6, delete per environmental services.
 Page 7, item 14, delete per Representative Anello. Page 7, item 16, delete per Fire Department. Page 7, item 17, delete per City Manager's Office. And page 13, item Executive 1, delete per City Attorney's Office. Are there any other revisions, counsel? Second. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 7, item number 15, and this is an update only from the cross-functional team on the short-term rental ordinance. So item 15 is, again, I know there's a lot of you all signed up to speak on it, and we thank you all for being here, but this is strictly for...
 the city manager and his team to kind of go over what's out there and then it's gonna be important that every district really has a community meeting and gets the input and gives, you know, kind of gives you all the background of why this item's even on the agenda and how we will or not move forward in it. This has not been determined at this point except that this is for information only.
 And again, we do plan on going to every district and talking to the community and get community input. And then from then, that item will be brought back on the agenda at a later date. So, and I know that I've had a lot of phone calls and a lot of interest on this item from people about what the outcome would be or would not be. And like I said, at this point, there is no vote will be taken at all today. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Managing Director Nicole Cody, if you please bring the presentation. And again, I do thank everyone for being here. I think it's important to continue to be informed, and I thank you all, every one of you all, for your time. Absolutely. Thank you, Mayor. And as you said, this is not an action item.
 So first I'd like to start with the cross-functional team activation. So the city manager had asked us to make sure that we pull the entire team together in order to be able to address the questions that we have regarding the, sorry about that, short-term rental ordinance. So as you can see there was multiple departments that would be working together to be able to look at what would an ordinance look like for the city of El Paso.
 So what we'll discuss today are the current conditions and also the comparative cities that we looked at. We want to make sure that you know that we're focused on results as well as the next steps for our community outreach. So the current conditions. So what we've been able to find, and you'll see the source at the bottom of the slide, is just based on the use of the various platforms like Airbnb or VRBO. We're estimating, depending on the time of the year,
 from 1500 to 1800 short-term rentals that are operating in El Paso today. So what we're seeing also is the vast majority of short-term rentals are listed on Airbnb, but they might be on both as well. So there is a possibility for duplication in numbers, and we do know that they fluctuate depending on the time of year. Also, you'll see that our estimated occupancy rate, so that also changes.
 depending on the time of year anywhere between the 58 percent that you're seeing all the way up to a 70 occupancy rate for el paso and so this has changed over the past years and it continues to change and fluctuate during the year so with cities we looked at to look and see well what are they doing as far as an ordinance for their city what's right for san antonio or dallas
 or Waco, or Lubbock, or Albuquerque, or even Austin. And so each city has really looked at the short-term rental ordinance as an opportunity for their city and what's going to be right for them. So as we work together, we're looking at what's going to be right for El Paso.
 So as we continue on this process, we're really focusing on what that result is. So we will be making a recommendation regarding the ordinance that addresses both the host and the neighborhood's concerns. We're also looking at the safety of the guests and their neighborhoods, as well as ensuring that the process is user friendly, it's simple,
 as well as it's really addressing the needs that we have as a city to be able to know where they're at, to ensure that code enforcement is involved and that public safety is being met. Also, we want to make sure that we're basing these recommendations on the data. It comes down to data.
 And so while we have estimates for these permits or estimates on where the short-term rentals may be located based on these platforms, we do not know for sure. And until we actually have an idea of what short-term rental means for El Paso, then we would come with a recommendation to you all. So the initial framework that we have been building as a team
 to be able to provide recommendations to the community and to you all, are looking at what is the definition of a short-term rental? How do we define it for El Paso? Do we need to have density limitations? That's truly a question at this point, because we don't know where the short-term rentals are located. And then what are those safety requirements that need to be provided for not only the safety of the host of the short-term rental, but also their guests?
 And so what does that look like? What are those requirements that we would need along with any associated costs to cover? So what we want to start with of course is a basic property definition. Short-term rental is a residential dwelling unit, apartment, condo, or accessory where sleeping areas are rented to overnight guests for a period of less than 30 consecutive days. So this is the basic definition that we've seen across the state.
 This is the basic definition that is an understanding of what defines a short-term rental. But the property types that we're looking at and how we define it for El Paso is what will be the cross-functional team will be working with, with you all as the City Council, under the direction of the City Manager, as well as with the community. So we're starting the next phase of community feedback. So we're going to be meeting with chorus with community members,
 Airbnb short-term rental hosts or guests our hotel motel association our chambers of commerce the neighborhood coalitions and of course developers as well. And this is to ensure we get a true cross-section of our community. Okay go ahead. Council for the record Laura Cruz at Coastal Communications Director for the city. This gives it provides an outline in terms of the outreach that we're providing.
 related to this item in particular we're looking at we've already started developing a website within the planning and inspections and in order to provide the information we'll be working on press releases putting out social media working with traditional media in terms of doing interviews and social and story pitches as well as working with our own city TV programming and neighborhood associations as well
 As also Nicole mentioned, related to neighborhood associations and also different stakeholders to include, as she mentioned, the chambers, the DMD, the Hotel Motel Association.
 And of course community meetings and your will be asking and calling on you all to put this in your newsletters as you've already Received an email from me related to this item in particular I have received back some feedback from at least two of you and have scheduled two meetings already with with regards to this topic and
 The other meetings that we're proposing, and these are tentative meetings. We've put a hold on all of these locations. The one on Wednesday, February the 8th, we will be hosting with District 4. We also have scheduled another one on February 1st and February 2nd. February 1st with District 2 hosting, and February 2nd will be hosted by the Realtors Association. And of course, we'll have a hybrid meeting as well.
 So I will ask the council to please remember that I would like to see if I could get those of you who want community meetings with your constituents to please reach out to me or Soraya AU for my staff by tomorrow if possible so that we can finalize the dates and times for these meetings and put these final dates with the public and with the media.
 So one thing I'd like to mention, thank you Laura, is that we will continue to coordinate these meetings through the month of February. So please let us know. We wanna make sure that we're coordinating with you all, with your districts and give everyone an opportunity to be able to provide their feedback. So as you'll see in the next steps, we're gonna continue to conduct these community meetings and then we're looking to be able to bring a final recommendation to council in spring of this year.
 And that concludes the presentation, sir. Thank you. Just based on your timeline, and I'm not sure we have because I know that I have a couple community members that would like to, you know, organizations would like to have a presentation, so that will be, you know, extend the time. Do we have a timeline when we think that we'll be coming back?
 We really want to make sure that we gather all the data and all the information from these community meetings. And once we do have that, we can bring back another update with a final timeline at that point. Great. That's great. That's good. Thank you. Representative Fiesel? Thank you, Mayor.
 You know, I'm trying to grasp what initiated this. All I heard was we need to find out where these short-term rentals are. That's question number one. And question number two is you talked about this issue being data-driven.
 And then there was, you brought up safety issues. Do we have data that is indicating that there are safety issues or concerns with these short-term rentals? So since we don't know where they're exactly at, it has to, if there is an incident, they do have to report that it is a short-term rental at that property. So it's just being able to have that communication with the property owner as well so that they're informed if something does happen at these properties.
 So that's what we're looking at as far as public safety component. I do believe that there has been one incident that I'm aware of that was at a short-term rental property. And when that incident was reported to law enforcement, I'm sure we knew then it was a short-term.
 why this is happening, where we're going with this, what the end game goal is supposed to be. And that's where I'm having a little difficulty understanding. So the short-term rentals, I think it's, and what we've seen across Texas, and we're really looking at the state of Texas,
 is they're really operating a business out of their home, right? It's a residential property, but it is a business. And so there's multiple definitions, and so that's what we're looking at for the city of El Paso. But it's also being able to ensure that there's a balance between the host and their neighbors. And so that, we always want them to be friendly businesses in our neighborhoods and ensure that there is that coexistence
 And so helping to understand where they're located allows first responders to have that information from the onset, and then also can diffuse any situations by us being able to notify the property owner before it gets to that point if they're not property owner occupied. Well, thank you, but again, I'm just trying to...
 to see the difference between whether it's my home or short-term rental, what that has to do with law enforcement and the responding. In fact, if you talk about neighborhoods, some of the short-term rental homes or establishments are better kept than some of the neighborhoods they're in. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Fierro. Representative Fierro, the original premise was just simply the hotel-motel tax, just like other cities do. I think we got several complaints from residents, and it came also through some council offices. So that's where that piece of it originated from. But that's the reason why we're doing this input, because the two issues that have come up have been the issue of the 500-foot rule and then also this issue of the –
 crime that's been reported in some of these facilities I think that one of the questions I asked staff and I've talked to people about is that you know you have to be able to look at the numbers if we have 1,500 and it's only been two incidents even though we don't want a rape or burglary or you know
 or loud occurrences to occur in any neighborhood, two out of 1,500 is not a big number. So we don't know what the actual number is, but it is a low number. And so what I've asked staff to do is to do this outreach because some of the feedback that we had received in our office had to do with those two elements. So those are the two things that we're looking at. Again, those came in anecdotally. They weren't something like your question about data-driven, that's the reason why we're doing these input sessions.
 because the primary driver is the hotel tax. That's the primary driver with this issue. Thank you. And I look forward to the data. Absolutely. But the first thing I heard from your comments was taxes.
 And so hotel, motel taxes, taxes, and that's one thing we need to be leery of. So thank you. Absolutely, sir. But at the same time, you know, with the services that are provided, whether it be public safety, whether it be streets, things of that nature, and how these taxes are collected,
 That's something that we look at not only in this particular issue, but across the board So that's the reason why that was that was looked at sure and we had we had put this off several years this isn't I mean the V the the
 the rentals that are taking place in homes just didn't happen just this year it's been happening for several years and we just have been keeping an eye on it we didn't want to rush into it a lot of cities have been doing it for three or four years already and we haven't and and the reason why we haven't is because as you pointed out we don't want to rush into a situation like like something like imposing a tax but this isn't a new tax it's something that's being done
 Texas, but as Cody talked about, just because someone else does it doesn't mean we're going to do it. And so that's the reason why we've been very deliberate with this process and have been very thoughtful with it, and that's the reason why we're also having these input sessions. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. As long as we keep in mind that these properties are also paying property tax already without homestead exceptions, let's just keep all that in place. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you.
 and i think it's um important you know be willing to listen to the community and continue to listen before we make any determination of anything we're doing and that's why today is presentation only and then you know we have quite a few but i think you'll see quite a few more presentations around the city because it's going to be very important that we do get community input and input from
 our constituents so again there's no decision going to be made today and you know I just want everyone to make sure we keep an open mind as we move forward. Representative Kennedy. Yeah and I agree that we have to start looking at stats I mean if we're looking at a single incident that was in a neighborhood a noise incident for example I mean my neighbor is not a short-term rental and
 I have noise issues with him all the time. So yeah, I think once we can take the look at that. The other question I was going to have is when you talk about the definition of short-term rental in the 30 days, that doesn't come out of the statute, was it? The 30 days is not part of the statute itself. No, it's the consistent definition that we've seen across Texas.
 is the definition that okay the basic definition and then from there the specific property types are further defined depending on the municipality right so the overall that's not from the statute that's something that we would be imposing then yes sir so it's self-generated whatever that number is correct okay I just look forward to the stats to see where you know is it more or less public safety I would suspect it's close to the same and I agree that
 you know i have issues with in my neighborhood and as far as i know i don't think any of them are short-term rentals they're just bad neighbors so you know that's all i have um representative kennedy just to be clear i i inserted the noise of the actual complaint that we received was much serious much more serious i understand and i agree that once we start looking at you know if it's a if it's a single incident or safety incident
 the percentage wise how it plays against the average, you know, homeowner. And I think, you know, and that was my question to staff, because I mean, even though the gravity of the situation, it was an assault on a young lady and it was very serious. And even though that's not taken lightly it's the numbers versus, you know, the business that's taking place. And obviously we don't condone any kind of crime to happen in our community, but you have to look at the numbers as well in terms of, um,
 how many have happened and the gravity of the situation and and the Responsibility that the owner has and things of that nature and that's the reason why that piece of the of the issue was added into The mix can we also take a look when we get those numbers that the number is broken out by? large facilities the hotels
 Yeah. So we've got an easier comparison. In terms of crime? Yeah. Call numbers and things like that. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you. That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. And I think it's important, again, and I'll repeat what I said, that we go out and listen to the community, and it will be disingenuine if we've already made up our mind when we go out and talk to you all. So let's go out there with an open mind and then determine based on what the community wants because –
 Otherwise, why go talk to you? So I think that's gonna be really important for us to go in with an open mind and be willing to listen to the community representative Hernandez followed by represent an ello. I
 Thank you, Nicole, and to the city staff who put hard work into conducting the statewide analysis on an issue that the state legislature has failed to act on session after session and has shifted that burden and responsibility to public safety officers and to municipal leaders like your counties and your city councils.
 And I wanted to share just some feedback that I received from constituents, both on the private property, short-term rental side of the house, and then, because I know you all are in the discovery mode right now, getting all the information so that we can produce an ordinance that is fair, it's equitable, that is going to address all the concerns. I think we can get there. The notion that all of this is premised on,
 hotel taxes is i don't believe is really the driving factor here because we don't even have an inventory and i believe short-term rentals are already paying their hotel taxes to the state but have not paid to the county and to the city's portions and so that that is a question that we hear from constituents
 If folks are operating businesses, what is the cost of business that they're providing to the city to provide all of those resources back to them? The other concern I hear from residents is the concern of preservation of neighborhoods.
 Certain people and certain families, they buy into neighborhoods because location matters. And so when you have an entire neighborhood that's being commercialized, that's problematic. That is what you're seeing across the state. And so it is prudent that this council takes a position to avoid any future commercialization of neighborhoods
 residential neighborhoods whereas a hotel has gone through that process through the city plan Commission they got the permission through zoning your City Council has full authority over zoning authority because you want to put businesses where they mix and where they mesh well with the community and so that is the prerogative of the City Council
 is to make sure that we're looking at what businesses are going where and how we can preserve neighborhoods. So the density I think is what's the concern from the community. So let's take a closer look at that because you do have situations where you have like my property for example, my home. I have a small dwelling accessory unit and the backside of it I could easily turn that into a shared rental and so how does that impact me if I
 there's like a little casita in my backyard and then my neighbor has a casita and they're doing the same thing. So neighborhoods are unique in itself and so I think we need to take a closer look at the density component of it.
 The preservation of neighborhoods, you know, I've heard time and time again from residents. I don't feel safe I feel very uncomfortable having strangers coming to my homes They're harassing dogs. There's new sisters noise There's you know Everything that you would see at a commercial establishment happening in residential neighborhoods And I think residents are at a point where they're frustrated And for the newer folks, I would you know encourage you to meet with your constituents because you're gonna hear the same thing we hear a
 day after day? Why is there no planning? Why is there no land use requirements? Why is there no limitations?
 I don't think we're there yet, but this is the point with policy is that you take a policy position to avoid To learn the mistakes of other communities and to address that at the forefront because before it becomes problematic Problematic in the future and so I think that's really a critical piece of this component here We have been talking about short-term rentals on this council for I mean at least 18 to 2 years and
 and what we have heard is that our planning documents and our zoning documents, we don't have anything. It's gonna require a policy or an ordinance change.
 so that folks can register them, so that we can have an inventory of them, that we can create a baseline, so that we can understand and look at holistically what is in our inventory and how do we collect that data. You can't collect the data right now because there's no mechanism right now to point to how many applications do we have, how many homes do we have, what's the close proximity to them. We don't have that understanding and I think it's critical
 as a matter of public safety and as a matter of law that this council makes a position that is fair, that it's going to protect private property owners, but also the private property owners themselves.
 who are experiencing a lot of nuisances, sometimes crime in their neighborhoods. But again, you can't find the statistics until you have a registration process and I think that's key to this conversation. And so I look forward to the work that you all will produce. I'm confident that we can find a balanced policy that's gonna protect.
 the citizenry of El Pasoans, but also be fair to the business owners in their process. And so I just wanted to share that feedback because I am a proponent and supporter of a short-term rental, so long as that it's fair to all persons in El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, Representative. Thank you, Representative. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. I think my colleague said it all very well.
 and I do want to say that there there this impacts a lot of other policies that we're looking at as well those of us who have been on the infill development CFT have looked at small dwelling units and how we can be changing our zoning but we can't do that without understanding
 how dwellings are being used across the city. I will also say there are some bad situations that come with short-term rentals. It's not every short-term rental. We get a lot of complaints about parking. I myself have been to many parties at short-term rentals and seen a neighborhood full of cars. We can't understand that situation and regulate that situation without a system and without the data that Nicole has been talking about.
 You know, I'm not here to tax anyone, but there's nobody here who owns a business in the city that does not pay for, you know, business permits and business fees. And I think really the preservation of neighborhoods is something that I've talked about a lot. We've seen, and I'm not here to talk about, you know, I own one or two properties and have a short-term rental. There are companies that are coming into the city that own ten or more short-term rentals in one or two neighborhoods that are really impacting people.
 the structure of that neighborhood and that community. And again, we can't even begin to have that conversation without the data. Do I think the proposal presented by staff is perfect? Absolutely not, right? And that's why we're here today, and that's why we're encouraging and asking them to sit and talk to the community, because I don't have every fact when it comes to short-term rentals, and we need those facts to be able to
 put in place a policy that makes sense for everyone. And so Nicole, again, I wanna thank you. I know you all have a lot of outreach scheduled. It's gonna be a lot of work in a short amount of time. I think everyone who's here, I know there are a lot of people signed up to speak.
 very interested to hear what you have to say today i ask that you do come up here and understand that we are wanting to hear from you this is the beginning of that process um and i i'm very interested to meeting with you all at the community meetings and getting your input and and creating a system um that does help everyone in this community so thank you thank you and with that miss prine i do want to take a public comment and i do want to remind everybody that uh
 you um please respect everyone's viewpoint and opinion it may not be the same as yours but that's okay we're you know we have that right and the ability to be able to do that so let's um keep a decorum and be respectful of what someone may want to say even though you don't agree with it miss prime
 Yes, sir. We have 13 members of the public that signed up to speak on this item. The first person is Tiffany Menefee, followed by Sabrina Maldonado, Heidi Seale, Paulina Langenbach, Amanda Middleton, Christian Maldonado, Julio Norman, Tiffany Menefee. If you'll come up to the podium, you'll have three minutes, please. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. My name's Tiffany Menefee, for the record.
 El Paso is built on the backs of small businesses, and that is one of the main reasons I love it here and why I've chosen to build a life here in El Paso when I'm originally from the Austin area. One of my small businesses is in the short-term rental industry. I own two houses here that comprise of five Airbnbs.
 The proposed regulations on the short-term rental industry would so negatively impact my short-term rental business that I would lose four out of my five Airbnbs. That is an 80% loss of my business. Yes, I could convert that 80% of my business into a long-term rental business, but y'all would have the same issues with that long-term rental business as you do as my short-term rental business.
 But when I'm in the investment I put into the interior of my short-term rentals, I would lose all that investment. It would take me up to five years to recover from that loss of income or that loss of money I put into the interior of my short-term rentals. So this...
 proposed ruling would definitely negatively affect my short-term rental business and I would have to change 80% of it up to long-term rentals. If the proposed regulations are to bring in more funds to the city, then setting restrictions where we can only have one short-term rental per every 500 feet would directly go against the wanted outcome. As far as paying taxes and fees, I am not against paying them as long as they are fair and reasonable.
 The fees in the proposed regulation seem excessive to me. The closest short-term rental market we can compare ourselves to is San Antonio, which charges $100 every three years per short-term rental listing, where El Paso is proposing to charge $300 every single year per listing on top of requiring short-term rental owners to pay the city, hotel, and motel tax.
 Hotel motels receive in tax incentives and tax breaks for investing in our city Short-term rental owners are also investing in El Paso But as small business owners we receive none of the tax breaks or tax incentives these large corporations do I cannot help but feel these Taxes and fees are excessive and not fair and reasonable I ask each of you to please reconsider these proposed regulations and see how they would negatively affect so many small businesses Here in the El Paso region. Thank you. Thank you. I
 We'll ask the audience to please refrain from outbursts that interrupt speakers or the meeting. Thank you. The next speaker is Sabrina Maldonado followed by Heidi Seale. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good morning. My name is Sabrina Maldonado. I am a wife, a mother of two little girls, and I'm also helping support my mother who lives with us. I am a registered dietitian and I work at a dialysis clinic part-time because Airbnb has given me the flexibility to support my mother.
 take home with my daughters most of the week. I came to this country when I was 12 years old, when my mother, who is not a US citizen, was keeping severe domestic violence. This country has been a haven for me in many ways, spiritually, emotionally, and financially, because of all the opportunities I have to better myself. And for all these, I am grateful, and I have made a decision to give back to my country.
 My husband and I have three Airbnb listings in the same property. If this ordinance were to take place as it stands, that means we will lose two and possibly three because our nearby neighbor has also an Airbnb. We have been Airbnb hosts since 2015, and Airbnb now is part of our income. That means we will lose my income as well as my time with my daughters, which is priceless to me.
 It is very interesting that we're having this meeting the same week we're celebrating Martin Luther King Jr. and how he fought for the rights of people. And now at this moment, we're fighting for our rights to have Airbnb in our properties.
 On behalf of my family and my fellow short-term hosts, I'm pleading with you to disregard the short-term rental as it stands today altogether. Please do not focus on the taxes that the city is not getting from ourselves, but do focus on the fact that most of the revenue from ourselves stays here in the city of El Paso. As well as we shop here, we go to Walmart, local pharmacies. I'm enrolled at a gym here in El Paso, and everything's staying here.
 almost 100%. Please, we're asking to allow us to have the same rights of multi-billion dollar corporations to thrive in this hospitality business. I am not the type of person to speak in public. However, I believe if there was an ordinance that was threatening a majority of your or a big part of your income, I believe with all my heart all of you will be speaking up as well.
 In conclusion, please understand that this ordinance assistance, it negatively affects the lives of thousands of families here in El Paso. As a result, we're asking you not to pass it. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Heidi Seal, followed by Paulina Longenbaugh. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good morning. My name is Heidi Sollins.
 And together with my husband, Juan Carlos Enriquez, we're both born and raised here in El Paso. We have formed our local businesses with the management of properties through Airbnb. I want to ask you to take a quick look around the room. All the white that you see here today is a representation of all the members of this community that were taking a stance against this ordinance. We are here today to represent all of the people of the short-term rental community that couldn't make it, but have given us the responsibility to make their voice be heard.
 I find it disheartening right now that our own local government is the one that is hindering us from creating new sources of income and limiting new generations from exploring the real estate market in ways we might not have previously imagined.
 Thanks to these new platforms, there are more people looking to settle in El Paso, either because of the economic benefits that this city can have compared to the higher cost of living that other areas of the state have, or because of the promising future of urban growth in which we trust that our government is as committed as we are. Let our community put down roots in its own land.
 Let's open our possibilities and help each other grow using the resources that we have already at hand. Because those of us who are in this know that we create different employments to the people of El Paso and different experiences for our guests. For us, it's not only about the money, but about the sense of belonging to a community with like-minded people.
 Those who are affected by this ordinance are not multimillion-dollar businessmen who can go out buying properties in a massive way or create continuous subdivisions, one after the other, all with the same structure and same colors. Those of us that will be hurt the most are those who opted to renovate that house that previously belonged to our parents or our grandparents that decided to make this a new way of life and give life to those houses that were in a very poor condition in those neighborhoods. Parents who have not fought in...
 Parents who have not found in hotels all the tools they need to make their stays with their children more friendly and there are Many and different cases of those who have ventured into this new industry Our stance is against any ordinance or regulations for the short-term rental community I appreciate your attention and I hope we can continue helping our community grow offering more and better services for our small businesses Thank you. The next speaker is Paulina Longenbaugh. I
 Ms. Longenbaugh, Star 6, please to unmute your telephone. Paulina Longenbaugh, Star 6. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hello. Good morning. Good morning. Hello. My name is Paulina Longenbaugh. I've been a licensed realtor in El Paso for over eight years, and I'm a short-term rental specialist alongside my business partner, Amanda Middleton. Together we run Turnkey El Paso, a short-term rental coordination company. We currently run about 30 SPRs throughout Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona.
 I'd like to address our concern regarding the zoning restriction that is being proposed, stating that STRs cannot be within 500 feet of each other. This is problematic for three key reasons. One, being that there are of course, as everyone has said, existing STRs that are already within 500 feet of each other. This proposal alone would wipe out over 50 percent of our STRs, which then prompts the question of which ones are then allowed to remain in operation.
 We have several units that are located in both multifamily complexes and duplexes purchased for the specific reason of operating as STRs. And they are our most economical and comfortable stay for countless medical, military, and other professionals that we have to offer.
 There's simply no fair way to determine which property gets to remain in STR. Secondly, this will cause a major disruption in the investment sector of real estate transactions here in El Paso because investors will see the restriction as too much of a risk.
 After COVID, many investors who held long-term rental properties opted to go into the short-term rental arena, given that they had little to no protection against tenants not being able to pay their rent and therefore being able to evict them, causing them tremendous financial hardship to this specific investor community.
 It should be kept in mind, as has been said, that a lot of these investors are not your big hedge funds. They are more of a mom and pop investor, if you will. They are the person who perhaps had a little bit of money saved up to purchase an investment property, who doesn't necessarily have enough income to offset their own mortgage and their investment property or properties for long periods of time. Not to mention that also causes an issue for future investors, not wanting to inject their money into our community because of this risk.
 No investor wants to be told how to manage their investment. To address neighborhood preservation, just the same way you can't keep investors from buying up a neighborhood and making them all long-term rentals, it's not reasonable or fair to impose a 500-foot clause solely on FPRs.
 Third, it causes a tremendous liability issue for the realtor community. I can't in good faith protect my clients as a realtor if I'm trying to sell them an investment property and there's, let's say, one under permit review on a house close to a listing my client wants. If my clients go and then close on this property and submit for their own permit, come to find out that they're within 500 feet of another one and are forced to long-term rent, and maybe that doesn't make sense with the mortgage that they end up having,
 I'm going to be then left with a very unhappy client and potentially a lawsuit against me for not better protecting them. In conclusion, we are asking for a seat at the table to come up with a happy compromise. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. The next speaker is Amanda Middleton. Amanda Middleton, Star 6, please, to unmute your microphone. Amanda Middleton, Star 6, good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning. My name is Amanda Middleton and I'm also one of the owners of Turnkey El Paso. We are a short-term rental coordination company. We co-host nearly 30 properties and all of our owners care for these homes above and beyond the average homeowner simply because it is indeed an investment. I speak to you today on behalf of these STR owners throughout El Paso and urge you to consider the ramifications that zoning restrictions without grandfather closets will have on the people who have chosen to invest in El Paso.
 In the presentation prepared for review regarding this issue, a list of comparable cities is given to include Dallas, San Antonio, and others. These comparisons cannot simply be looked at as apples to apples with percentages of STR to housing, as this is an oversimplification of this issue. As was said, El Paso is unique, and El Paso's STR clients are far different from those of other cities for many reasons, to include Fort Bliss, government contracting work for the border crisis, and traveling medical professionals.
 We provide competitive STR to encourage traveling nurses and other professionals to choose El Paso to live in for three months or longer over bigger cities to Dallas simply due to the cost of living that we can offer. Again, the comparison of statistics does not do this topic justice.
 In restricting days allowed to rent, for example, setting a minimum of 30 days, it will effectively increase the necessary rental price due to scheduling limitations and occupancy rates. This is not only a huge financial blow to SDR owners, but it's also a deterrent for many traveling professionals looking to temporarily call El Paso home.
 In addition, STR has provided amazing job opportunities for many locals. Last year, Just Our Company paid over $45,000 to locals for turnover cleaning. These contractors are students, stay-at-home parents that need flexible schedules, and others who need supplemental income to help with the current rates of inflation.
 The mass majority of STR hosts continuously invest in their property, appearance, and infrastructure, and in turn invest in El Paso. We also provide multiple safeguards in place, not only as hosts, but alongside the third-party booking platforms that we utilize to include event rules, noise monitoring, outdoor security, ID verification, and many more.
 Moreover, as a company, we provide digital guidebooks for each of our guests with recommendations to local restaurants, parks, and shopping experiences to encourage the support of locally owned businesses. We provide a service to El Paso by providing accommodations that could not compare to that of a hotel. Last year, just our company alone hosted over 400 reservations and over 1,200 people without any negative issues regarding neighborhood complaints or safety. While
 While we do not oppose safety regulations as we already maintain those high standards, we do vehemently oppose the zoning restrictions in which current responsible STR owners will be negatively impacted after investing their time and money into the city of El Paso. These are for the most part El Pasoans that pay property taxes and continuously vest in El Paso.
 We urge you to delve deep into the STR community, which we know will factually extinguish many, if not all, negative opinions regarding STRs within El Paso. And we offer ourselves and our company as a source of information in the future as the City Council continues to research the topic for further discussion. Thank you very much for your time, and we appreciate your consideration. Thank you. The next speaker is Christian Maldonado, followed by Julio Norman, Edward Beck, Timothy Hernandez,
 good morning mr malonado you have three minutes hey good morning before we start i just want to give my condolences to with the chief he seemed like a great person to to know and stuff in it and it breaks my heart that i didn't i didn't know him so thank you okay oh can we restart go ahead sir your time is running please strs are not the same as hotels and should not be held to the same standards as hotels definition of hotel establishment providing accommodations meals and other services for travelers and tourists
 STR, a furnished living space for short term. There's no food or services, so we don't fall under that definition. Tax incentives for hotels. Recently, Foster will invest $18.4 million with the city, providing $2.1 million incentive, primarily of a 20-year, 100% top property tax rebate and a 10-year, 100% sales use tax rebate.
 STRs get no incentives. Where's our incentives? City needs money? Why not cut these tax breaks? We're talking about multi-million dollar companies that can afford this, but middle class families like us, we cannot. Statement, STRs are a nuisance for communities. Absolutely false. This is subject to feelings. Some people may not like it. Some people, this may not like the neighbor. It is subject to feelings and needs hard data to go by.
 You know, when I was looking at the agenda packet, there was 450 pages in that agenda packet. I found at least 140 pages of nuisances of people not taking care of their yard. That's a nuisance. That is hard data. You will not find that with STRs. Statements, Airbnbs need to be 100 feet to preserve communities. Absolutely false. Where did that number come from?
 If there were an Airbnb for every 500, within that 500 feet of a whole neighborhood, it would not be sustainable, okay? There could not be Airbnbs, four Airbnbs in a block. It would not be sustainable. My friend bought two houses, three houses in six months. One rented quick for Airbnb. The other two, he couldn't do it. The market will decide. Conclusion.
 STRs are not the same as hotels and should not be held to the same standards as hotels, including the hot. Nuisances and safety points must take into data not personal feelings, emotions, or dislikes. Let the market dictate who does and does not do Airbnbs. Thank you so much. Have a great day. The next speaker is Julio Norman, followed by Edward Beck, Timothy Hernandez. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning, sir. Thanks, sir. I'm an Airbnb host of a rental property, and I'm a senior on a fixed income. I hereby request that you disregard this request for...
 continuing on the Airbnb short-term rental regulation. Let me bring up some key points that I found. The money that we get for Airbnb stays in El Paso. It's not sent to a different company outside of El Paso, whether in Texas or out of Texas. We already have assumed a doubling in tax because it's not a homestead in some cases. So we're paying higher tax than we did two years ago.
 So it also makes it affordable for many tourists, many travelers with spendable incomes. There's a $33 billion surplus at the state level. And right now in this biennium, they're deciding what to do with that money. There's a projected $243 billion in the next biennium. We're a self-regulating entity based on ratings. Our customers rate it.
 and we rate our customers. So if they're bad people, we give them a bad rating, and they usually don't appear again. We also have a new policy instituted in 2020 by Airbnb to us based on party rentals. People bring more spendable income than other lodging. Because of the lodging cost, they have more spendable income to stay here in El Paso. We have our standards. There's smoke alarms.
 a requirement for smoke alarms, monoxide alarms, and a fire extinguisher. So we were very self-regulating. The rentals are offered by Airbnb to certain populations in emergencies, such as weather-related events, including relief to refugees from war-torn areas, such as the Ukraine and Afghanistan.
 I have already signed up about a year or two ago for offering that relief to Ukraine. Afghanistan was also an option for those refugees. I thank you for your time, and I really hope that you consider this in deep, and also hope that you consider some of our members in part of your study and not just a specialized group.
 Thank you very much, and Happy New Year. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Edward Beck, followed by Timothy Hernandez, Lauren Malohai. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, guys. Good morning. How's everybody doing today? My name's Edward Beck. I'm a local host. I've been a real estate investor for over 17 years here in El Paso. And I can tell you a little bit of difference between traditional rentals and an Airbnb.
 I've never gotten a complaint from my traditional rental for dust on the floor or something in the microwave. The Airbnb people, they go through these properties and they're super picky. You know what I mean? They go over every little thing and you'll get all the complaints in the world. I promise you if there's not a smoke detector, you'll find out within 15 seconds. These guests, they see everything. But on my rentals...
 I could walk you through some of the rentals in my area, and they look nothing like my Airbnbs. My Airbnb is like retail ready, full remodel, high-end colors, high-end furniture. These other hosts out here, they put their heart and soul into these different units to make something unique in the city. If you would, imagine El Paso, somebody coming to visit you, and they want to stay in an Airbnb, and there's none.
 This regulation would pretty much cut out 50, 60% of the Airbnbs in El Paso. I'm not talking just about these people that are in this room, but I'm talking about the future. El Paso, we want to get in the next generation, which is the gig, the gig economy. Imagine no Ubers in El Paso. That's very similar to Airbnb. This is the future of the economy outside. Do you guys know where the term Airbnb came from?
 The two owners put an air mattress on their floor in San Francisco and rented it out. That's where Airbnbs came from. How are you going to get a site map for an air mattress on the floor? I can't really see it. So it's really outside of the box, guys. I want you to just...
 I encourage you guys not to hinder the growth and the change in our community and where we're going in the future. I highly recommend you guys to come check out some of our units, you know what I mean? Maybe the news would like us to do that. But that's it, I want you guys to vote against this, please. Thank you. The next speaker is Timothy Hernandez, followed by Lauren Lohi, Roberto Lopez, and Ralph Krause. Timothy Hernandez.
 Lauren Lujan, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning.
 Good morning. Hi. Hello. My name is Laura Maluhi. First of all, thank you all for taking the time to listen to us. The speaker has already touched on such great points, so I won't take up too much time. I'll just go over some other items from our perspective. So as you all know, El Paso is not the same as Orlando or L.A., who have these big companies with so many different short-term rentals. The majority of us are just mom and pops. I just bought a home and moved.
 As you all know, the housing rates in El Paso are getting so high and it's becoming so unaffordable on top of our mortgages, property taxes. I don't need to go through all of that with you all. So most of us are just trying to find a way to serve, give back to the community and take back.
 use all of the expensive costs for living at home. Okay. So I think that El Paso has an awesome opportunity for tourism with this. The same as Río Dos in all these other cities. Most of I could tell you our guests are anesthesiologists travel nurses people coming for shopping people going to visit our state parks local attractions.
 And as well we also have guidebooks that are like oh my God go look at a Chihuahua's game go look at a locomotive game go to these restaurants. We personally do local restaurants so I understand the concern absolutely. I promise you we.
 property owners who do not want problems which is why a lot of us has noise monitors in our homes we keep them on really good condition because we don't want neighbor complaints at all so I think we're all on the same page we're all in the same team we want to bring value to our community but we also want to find a way to bring resources to the city so that we can all benefit
 As you all know, the property taxes in El Paso are really high, so on top of that, if we do, we're already paying a state hospitality tax, as you all know, so this additional cost, maintenance, lawn care, pest control, security systems, it all can become very costly. I don't think the majority of us are getting rich from these properties, we all just want to have that flexibility to spend more time with our family and another stream of income.
 And...
 That's all that I got. I also stand against the 500 feet rule as well for the same concern. I'm also a real estate agent. If I have a client who is buying a property for the intention of renting it out and the numbers look right and they say, oh, there's no one in 500 feet, I'm good. And then once we get to closing and somebody got a permit for that, I'm sure you could see how that could be very problematic for everybody. My condolences for Officer Allen. Thank you all for your time today and God bless.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Roberto Lopez followed by Ralph Krause. Roberto Lopez, Ralph Krause, IT Will Need the Elmo. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Ralph Krause. I recently retired and purchased a second home for the purpose of operating an Airbnb. Obviously my money wasn't making anything in the bank.
 I can also use my primary residence as a STO rental when I travel and visit my grandkids. I'm personally opposed to any another ordinance and regulations that go along with that, but I also understand the purpose of the ordinance is outlined and the need to provide a safe environment for the residents of our city. Certain provisions of that ordinance do make sense.
 STO owners pay income tax on the revenue, and we pay property taxes on the property. So I just want to talk about a couple issues. First of all, the 500-foot restriction. How can you restrict a person from using their private property for whatever they want to use it for if you allow their neighbor to do the same thing? If my neighbor beat me to it, then I can't operate an Airbnb.
 First come, first served will not pass muster, in my opinion. The ordinance is also attempting to require ST owners and occupants to pay hotel occupancy tax. If you review, while not restricting hotels and motels from the same ordinance, if you look at Airway Boulevard, there's eight hotels, four on each side of the street, and one property after another, zero distance between them. So we need to eliminate a 500-foot restriction.
 permits and registration fees these fees the ordinance does not require any owner or i'm sorry does not require the city to spend any money to send people out and check what you have so the cost of a permit and registration should be held to a minimum basically just administration costs also there's the registration by the comptroller that requiring each person to register with a comptroller
 Airbnb currently collects the taxes for the state as well as several other municipalities across the state. So we should allow them to collect the taxes if we're going to apply a tax and have the comptroller only deal with one entity versus 1,800, whatever the number came up with. We should restrict the long-term rentals to 30 days.
 There's an occupancy. Thank you, Mr. Crouse. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. That concludes public comment on this item, sir. Thank you. I have Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you Mayor. I just wanted to thank all the stakeholders that came here to speak on this ordinance today. It really takes all the stakeholders to come to the table in order for us to craft a responsible policy and so I'm glad to see your all's participation. I know that we're gonna be having public meetings. We really want your public input and
 When it comes to crafting this as the ordinance right now stands. I am NOT in support of it I think it needs a lot of work We need to find a little bit more balance And I want to definitely delve into more of a streamlined process I want to see more things about grandfathering cloths because a lot of people have invested already on these homes and you know It's something you can't go back. So it's kind of looking at it more responsible and
 Wait, and I just had a quick question in regards to the hot tax. Is that a state mandate, the hot tax? So yes ma'am, the hotel occupancy tax, currently Airbnb actually has an agreement with the state. So they are collecting on the state's behalf, but both the city and county are currently, we're not able to get current agreements with Airbnb, so we're not collecting at all on the hotel occupancy tax.
 Okay, and that's really my only question, and I'm really glad to see the participation and looking forward to hearing from my constituents in regards to how we're gonna craft a very responsible policy. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido, and I wanna thank everyone for being here and,
 Coming up and talking with us. It's really important and I look forward to continuing the dialogue Before even this item is considered because I think it's important to continue the dialogue with the community and make changes as Need to be or again, you know, let's not make a decision until we hear everything and today It was very informative and I want to thank you all for taking your time to be here. Thank you
 Mayor we'll follow up also not only with those meetings that have been posted or that have been presented But we also have a list of the people that spoke today. We'll reach out to them as well When we have that input those input sessions. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. And with that miss prime I thank you all again this mayor what council like to recess for the mass transit department board meeting at this time Second there's a motion in a second to recess a regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed? I
 The meeting is in recess at 1050 AM. 6 AM. And the City Council meeting will resume at noon for call to the public. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1203 PM. We now go to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used.
 for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity that is not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliver or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have seven members of the public that signed up for call to the public. We'll begin with Ms. Wally Sheck,
 Followed by Elaine Prickett, Albert Rivera, Ron Como, Loretta Hyde, Karen Washington, and Aurelio Valdez, Jr. Yes. IT will need the Elmo. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You'll have three minutes. And IT, if you'll bring up the Elmo, please. Ms. Sheck has something to display. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. God bless every one of you, and may God save America. Thank you.
 and please help us bring back those boxes. Those boxes that you see is my gift to El Paso. Mr. Mayor, you represent the good people, and I want you to be in charge of it. I cannot bring 500 boxes
 your house, so you have a wall here, and you can have the police department pick it up one by one. They can put it in their trunk and bring it here for the people. Do this in honor of Mr. Allen. And this is my house.
 payment okay those box represents $80,000 and I know from mayor's experience going every month to the open door meeting with mr. cook that I can only give you personally a gift of $75 stop the green timing
 Why don't you wait and get your three minutes, and then I'll come down. Don't lose your three minutes, Michelle. Okay. This is for your wife. Thank you. All right? Because the grief that you feel today cannot be quenched with pills or a doctor or anybody else. But your wife can hold you tight, and this is a light to shine because this is what you bring to El Paso.
 ignore that. And this is the book I can't list it, I'm sorry, for the governor, but he's going to have to earn it. For two years, I tried to bring that cross to Austin. I made contact and
 I would like for him to come to El Paso and we'll talk about that later because forget that green bug. And I want you... Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three minutes. Please. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. We'll see you in two weeks. The next speaker is Eileen Prickett. Ms. Prickett's topic is expressing gratitude to the City of El Paso and requests continued support for veterans.
 Good morning. I was here in September with Denise LaBeouf, one of our board members, and today I brought my father-in-law, Kirby Prickett, who's a Korean War vet, and David Saenz, who is a Vietnam veteran. Both of them have been on an honor flight trip. We came requesting that we have a beautiful homecoming for our veterans, and you did that for us, and I want to thank you very much.
 On October 1st, you did an amazing job and a lot of our veterans were in tears. One veteran said, unreal, people really, really care. And this has given me closure. He's on the way to closure. We still have 175 veterans on our waiting list because of COVID. It has increased.
 They were slowly passing away, two passed away before they could go on this trip. We would like to have continued support to give them the amazing homecoming they deserve that they never got. And so we're asking for that in April the 29th. We will be coming back from another trip from Washington. We are trying to do two trips this year.
 next few years. But we're also asking if you could get us in front of people that could get us some support financially from El Paso because most of our support has come out of Las Cruces. We need to do that so that we can do these two trips before these amazing veterans pass away and they don't have this opportunity.
 I also want to let you know that we are very committed to serving El Paso veterans. Usually a third to a half of our veterans are from El Paso. And I know we gave you a brochure last time, but we'd like to give you another brochure if some of you are new. And then we also have a pin with our new logo to show you how committed we are to serving El Paso. I'd like to give the remainder of my time to David Saenz, our Vietnam veteran that went on Mission 14. Thank you. Thank you.
 First of all, I'd like to express our profound sympathy for the loss of
 Chief Greg Allen to the city of El Paso, his family, and the police department, and among, from all veterans. But anyway, when we got off the plane and were received by El Paso, Mayor, yours was the first hand I shook getting off the plane. I haven't washed my hands since. But it was a welcoming that none of us had ever received.
 back in the day and it was overwhelming and it was very emotional for all of us. This is a program that is worthwhile and is so rewarding to all of us that went to war. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker.
 So we would like to give you each a pin with our new logo on it and a brochure. Is that okay? You can add it to me. Okay. Thank you again And I want to thank you for the amazing homecoming it brought me to tears And it meant a lot to me to be out there with you and I thank you The next speaker is Albert Rivera. Mr. Rivera's topic is noise emissions Good afternoon. So you have three minutes?
 Hello, my name is Albert. I live in San Francisco Heights. Good afternoon, sir at 537 West Franklin first I'd like to give my condolences to the chief Family and to El Paso and to everyone here His sudden loss Since I've been here since I was here last a couple of things I'm concerned about and I have issues with and frustrated with is the noise. I
 It's not so much the noise now, but the response I'm getting from the police department when the noise is happening. And I'm having a couple of problems with when the police show up, some of them don't have the instrument to do the measurement of the decimals, and that doesn't help my issue when they show up without the instrument to do it. So we're understaffed in that particular department for officers to have the instrument.
 to be able to come out to do it, because it doesn't work for the problem if they can't measure it. So I need that to be addressed through the city council, through the police department, through however we can support giving the instrument to do their job. The other thing, too, is that I've been given some numbers to call. PAR is one of the agencies that I've been given a number to. And they don't regulate sound at night.
 They only regulate sound during the day. We need to develop some type of way without using 911 and having the police come with their cars and all that. There's got to be another way because they're doing other important problems at night that we can get some type of better response. When the noise is happening between 1030 and 1130, when the volume is getting up there and I call, sometimes they don't even show up.
 And when they do show up, they show up at 1.30, 30 minutes before the bars are supposed to close. I'm three feet from the bar, and I don't know how long they're going to be there. I know they're going to be there probably as long as I'm alive right now, and I'm going to be there just as long as they are. And we're going to have this continuous problem over and over again. The city, the permit department, needs to stop allowing bars in abnormal settings, such as the neighborhood.
 If these bars don't want to cooperate, then we need to do rezoning. Something needs to be done. My mental health is at stake, and theirs is for profit. Something's got to give, and I need the city's help in taking care of this issue. The city caused the problem. The city needs to help fix the problem. They allowed a permit for a bar in an abnormal city.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ron Como, followed by Loretta Hyde, Karen Washington, and Aurelio Valdez, Jr. Mr. Como's topic is ACLU of Texas. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to start out by reading a section from 1983 to the rescue.
 Complaining about inhumane conditions, abuses, or violations of the law at the shelter is a constitutionally protected right. A volunteer, a rescuer, or any other member of the public not only has the First Amendment right to speak out against abuses and violations of law, and committed by the government shelter, he or she also has a constitutionally protected right to demand that the government correct the wrongs that are identified.
 Now, ladies and gentlemen, we all know we are putting the shelter on the agenda every two weeks. And we all know because people have bragged that you did this to shut us up. This is a conspiracy to violate our constitutional rights of freedom of speech. The city of El Paso is guilty of conspiracy. We are not going away quietly.
 We will be here every two weeks until this problem is resolved. You all carried on with the last mayor's failed programs, which are still in effect, the HOSS program. We still have unaltered strays, unvaccinated strays running our streets, creating more strays that we don't have room for. We had over a thousand more strays attached to our shelter in November.
 And let me just bring out something at the ASAC committee the gentleman talked about how many Strays they got transported out of town in November. It shows a total number of strays of 77 Were released to rescues of transports Mr. Mayor
 That is so much less than what I used to do with the group I worked with, just me alone. That doesn't include Diane, that doesn't include Mandy, that doesn't include Loretta, doesn't include Karen. It doesn't include half the rescues in El Paso. They're in a panic mode trying to clean up your mess. I'm asking again, get a school. Let's get this round up. Let's collect these strays. Let's get them spayed and neutered so we can nip this problem in the butt. It's gone on long enough.
 I'm tired of the lost and found pages. I lost my dog. I found my dog. We have no help. We need a qualified director. We need to get the problems resolved. You've had two years. Mr. Mayor, you said you were going to get the shelter back on track when you ran for re-election. The animal advocates of El Paso are still waiting. We voted for you because of everything you did in your first round. Everybody thought you were a hero. What do you want to leave this city as when you leave the mayor this time?
 The next speaker is Loretta Hyde. Ms. Hyde's topic is also ACLU of Texas. Mrs. Prine, if we could just remind that you can't use the podium for political statements. That's correct, Mr. Coleman. I'm sorry? This is not a platform for political statements or campaigning. Oh, okay. Go ahead, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon. As a rescuer...
 I'm here because we keep having the same problems and I want to let you know as a rescuer I got an estimate of how many transports we did for the last six months and it was over 4,000 animals that we transported out of here to different places that would accept the strays and the puppies and so forth.
 I personally have treated over 26 puppies that have come down with parvo in the last two months. I've done two with distemper. It's gonna get worse because there's so many more animals out there, especially with summer coming. I'm also building another facility at my shelter to house more mama cats and kittens because it's so overwhelming every kitten season. So the rescues are doing their part, but we need help.
 And I was just thinking on your discretionary funds if anybody wanted to help us with transports We pay for that out of our own pockets. We have to get three sets of puppy shots we have to get a health certificate they have to be dewormed and Quarantine before they'll even accept the puppies that all comes out of our pocket as well as the gas money I just spent seven hundred and fifty dollars to send a whole
 busload of babies out to Colorado. And that's just for the gas and the food for the people that are doing the transports at no charge.
 we have to do something. There's no place to put these animals and the rescues can't house thousands and thousands of them and we can't transport them out here fast enough. So please listen to us when we're asking for help and that we want to help you as well figure out a problem because it's just sad that we have to say no when they they keep dropping off puppies in crates and
 totes and everything out front and I can't house every one of them so I have to send them to animal services. When they showed that video at animal services, they had rows and rows of puppies and
 It's going to get worse before it gets better, and we can't do all the work without everybody working together. Please, listen to us. We don't want to be down here every two weeks begging for help, but that's the only way things are going to get done if we do it together. Thank you. You know, and I agree with you. Not working against each other is so much better. Working together, we'll get a lot more accomplished. Yes, ma'am.
 The next speaker is Karen Washington and I'll remind the public to please stay on topic that you signed up for Miss Washington signed up for ACLU of Texas. Good afternoon everyone first I'd like to express my condolences as well for our entire city of El Paso The police department in Roseanne Allen yesterday. We lost an exceptional leader. We lost a compassionate animal lover and
 And Chief Allen was a compassionate animal lover. And he was a great man all around. So my condolences to all. You know, I stopped attending these meetings once I learned that council was attempting to quiet us by putting animal services on the agenda for every meeting. If any of us were in attendance to speak, animal services was pushed to the back of the meetings to discourage us from staying here all day. Well, I'm back because it is my First Amendment right to be here and to have my voice heard. Thank you.
 Complaining about inhumane conditions, abuses, or violations of law at shelters is a constitutionally protected right. A volunteer, a rescuer, or any other member of the public not only has the First Amendment right to speak out against abuses and violations of law committed by a government shelter, he or she also has a constitutionally protected right to demand that the government right the wrongs that are identified.
 We're aware of the shelter issues, but my point also is animal control is also run by the city. January 4th, a man suffered serious injuries after being attacked by multiple dogs in central El Paso.
 The incident happened at around 1 p.m. at the 2400 block of Wyoming. We're not picking up the healthy dogs. We're still picking up the sick and the injured because they can go into animal services and be euthanized immediately. This keeps their numbers of intake down. We've got to start picking up all the dogs. You all have not seen this lady. Thank you.
 Because this just occurred this past weekend. She was walking her own dog in her own neighborhood and was attacked by a stray dog. She was knocked down to the ground, bitten, and her nose has been broken. She went to work like this the next day because she had just started a new job. Okay, she didn't deserve that and her dog didn't deserve it. We have got to start picking up all of the dogs on the streets of El Paso. Please, we need change. Something's got to give before somebody's mauled to death. Thank you. Thank you.
 The final speaker is Aurelio Valdez, Jr. Aurelio Valdez, Jr. I don't believe he's in chambers. That concludes call to the public. Thank you, and thank you, everyone, for coming and taking your time to be here. Thank you, sir. And with that, we'll go to item number 18. Yes, sir. Item 18 is presentation and discussion on community cats. Good afternoon, council. IT, if you can bring up the presentation.
 I just want to make sure anyone can sign up for any item you put on the agenda, correct? Yes, sir. Just verifying it. No, for example, they could have signed up to talk for this item and then talk for a call to the public, something different.
 But this one is specifically community cats. No, that's what I'm saying. They can talk about anything he signs up for, and then they can sign for call to the public and talk about whatever they want to talk about. Sure, but I think this item has been, so I think what their issue was is that this has been the third time it's been postponed by council. The first time for this item. Fourth item.
 First time for the first time. But there are other items that we would push it to the end of the meeting. The meetings would go until 5 or 6, and then it would get postponed or deleted. So I think that's what their concern was. But that was us, not Terry. I want to be very clear. But they can still talk about something different. And today was totally different than it had anything to do with animal shelters, which was civil rights law.
 Okay, yes, so today's presentation is going to be on our community cat program. On the agenda here we have, we're going to talk a little bit about what a community cat is, some of the terminologies, a quick snapshot of the data, the number of TNRs that we do, and access to the community cat program there. So the community cat program is a humane, non-lethal approach to control the cat populations here in El Paso.
 It's usually done with semi-friendly or unfriendly cats. Mainly, these are cats that are not suitable for adoption. Community cats, they go through the TNR process. So with the TNR process, the T is for trap, and we do this trapping humanely.
 uh then we once they're they're trapped they are taken for to be neutered spayed vaccinated ear tipped and then returned back to the location where they were trapped so prior to the community cats animal or cat populations were controlled primarily through trap and euthanizing so this was done for decades and very ineffective part of the shelter reform this was one of the you
 Items that was brought to light it was we needed a more robust and TNR process for the cats here in El Paso It was presented back that in 2016 and approved by Council to have a community cat TNR process here in our community with the cat populations here in El Paso, so the benefits of
 numerous of the TNR process community cat program here it provides healthier cats in neighborhoods they're seen by a veterinarian their spayed neutered and vaccinated so help prevent that disease transmission out in the community it also minimizes nuisance behaviors those nuisance behaviors include spraying fighting howling and roaming the neighborhood
 This is a, and it also provides a humane way of controlling those cat populations. So some of the terminologies, ear tip, that's defined in Title VII. Basically, it's a universal accepted method to identify a spayed or neutered and vaccinated community cat. So that's a quick way to see if that cat has been through that TNR process and part of that community. We also have feral population.
 More of a technical term is animal that has escaped from domestication and become wild. Basically, they're just under-socialized, and they also tend to be fearful to people. So they usually don't, they're not going to come and attack anybody. They stay away and stay in their areas. Some more terminology, as you'll hear, is colonies. And colony is simply just a group of free-roaming cats living together. Okay.
 And then you also have your colony manager or caregiver. We use those terms universally. And they're the ones, they're the eyes and ears of that colony there. They provide, they watch over them. They have their feeding times. And another very important aspect that they do is they know that colony. They know who belongs. So if they see a new intact cat, they're,
 They can take it in and get it part of that, go through the TNR process so they don't reproduce as well. Another term that's used with community cat advocacy here is a vacuum effect. So back in the day when we just used to do the euthanizing, it creates this vacuum effect. So when you euthanize an area, you just gather up all the cats there, it creates a void there.
 where other cats are just gonna move right back into. And as they move back in there, their tendency to reproduce is greater. So they're gonna come back in high populations.
 Quick look at the data. So since 2016 the orange bar there that shows how many cats we took in Overall and then the purple there shows how many of those cats were went through that TNR process So we've been doing it quite often So you could see those are those numbers? There's no number that says if we take in X amount of cats then X amount are gonna be TNR because they come in for various reasons
 But you can see that a large population of our cats that we do do that TNR process at the shelter. They're done at other places as well. So our strategic partners that we have is our community, Sun City Cats, El Paso TNR, the animal services ourselves, Humane Society, and local veterinarians. Our number one partner is the community. The community works –
 with other partners there, the ID areas, provide information on new intact cats in the area, and provide that humane treatment for the cats. Some of the local community cat resources. So we have animal services. We do have a community cat coordinator that works with us. And if they're not readily available, anybody in animal services can help out with that process. Send City Cats, El Paso TNR, those are nonprofit groups.
 sy'n hyderus iawn yn y ffyrdd o draffu cymaint a chael y colonïau hynny'n cael eu creu ac yn cael eu gynnal yn dda. Ac mae'r Cymaint Cymaint yn y tu ôl i Gwasanaethau Cynhyrchu El Paso sy'n ymdrech yn y tnr o gwrthgynhyrchion. Rai o'r adnoddau cymunedol ar gyfer mwy o wybodaeth yw'r Alli Cat Allies.
 yma ar y cychwyn gyda El Paso pan oeddem yn creu'r rhaglen gwrtaith cymunedol. Felly maen nhw'n ddiddordeb ar draws y nesaf. Mae gennym ffrindiau gorau a'r Cymdeithas Gwyddonol Cynhyrchol. Yn ystod hynny hefyd, maen nhw'n darparu gwybodaeth eraill hefyd am, eto, y traffu gwyddonol. Nid yw traffau yn mynd i ofal y gwartheg wrth eu cael eu cael.
 a hefyd gwybodaeth arall, fel i ffynnu'r gwartheg. Gwneud yn siŵr bod pobl yn gwybod nad ydyn nhw'n mynd i'r prifysgolion. Gallwch chi ffynnu ar eich prifysgolion eich hun, ond gwneud yn siŵr nad ydych yn mynd i unrhyw prifysgolion sydd ddim yn deillio i chi neu nad oes gennych amlyniad. Hefyd, nid gadael traps yn ddim. Mae'n bob amser cynllunio'r broses hwnnw. Felly, mae gennych rywun sy'n gwybod y byddan nhw'n mynd i'r traps,
 ac yna gael y cam nesaf ar gyfer y gwartheg i gael nhw i'w ddod yn y TNR fel y gallant yn gyflym yn ôl i'r colini. Ac gyda hynny, hoffwn i adael i chi'r llythyr hwn o Ymir Zawala. Mae hi'n blentyn 8. Mae hi'n helpu gyda gwartheg cymunedol gan ymdrech yn rhaglen gwartheg cymunedol gyda'i rhieni. Mae hi'n deall bod rhaglen gwartheg cymunedol yn well na gwrtheg a chymorth ac mae eisiau helpu un gwartheg ar eich gilydd. Felly gyda hynny, mi fyddwn i'n cymryd unrhyw gwestiynau. Ni
 Mae gennym ddau llythyr yn cael eu cyflawni. Mae gennym 27 o bobl sydd wedi cyflawni ystadegau neu fyddai eisiau cymryd y cyngor y bore ddiwethaf. Yr un person cyntaf yw Jetta Goodman. Jetta Goodman, os ydych chi'n ymlaen i'r Qstar 6 i ddimwch eich telffon, mae gennych chi tri munud. Gwylio. Mae'r microffon yn dimwyddu. Mae gennych chi tri munud. Nid ydym yn gallu clywed chi, Gwylio. Gwylio.
 Rydyn ni ddim yn gallu clywed hi yn y Cymru Cyngor. I.T. Allwch chi fy nghoffi? Ie, go iawn. Iawn. Iawn, fy enw i yw Seda Goodman ac rydw i wedi bod gyda'r rhaglen TNR ers 2018. Rwyf wedi cydnabod yn hollol y rhaglen ac fe wnaeth un o fy nheibwyr ymwneud â threbu, rhaglen TNR y gât.
 Ac rydyn ni ers 2018, fy ffyn a fi, rydyn ni wedi cael tua 40 gwartheg o gair yn ein stryd ei hun. Yn dechrau'r problem, roeddem yn gweld gwylltiau sydd wedi dangos eu hanner i fyny ar ein drws. Ac wedyn rydw i wedi ceisio ddysgu beth allwn ni ei wneud i fod y problem yn cynnwys ac i gadw gwartheg yn ein prifysgol.
 Felly roedd gen i fwy o ffynion arall sy'n fy nghymorthio am rai gwrtau ar y ddynion sy'n helpu â chyflawni gwrtau ac felly fe wnes i ymgysylltu â nhw a hefyd fy ffynion ac fe ddechreuom y rhaglen felly mae'n dda iawn. Mae ein stryd wedi bod yn ffynion o gyffrediniaid diwethaf, diolch i'r bobl. Ac mae fy ffynion a fi yn cymryd gofal o un coloni o'r gwrtau, 12 o'r gwrtau ar y ddynion.
 And we feed them, we keep them healthy, and any new cats that wander in, we can quickly call, get a trap, and bring them to animal services or the Humane Society and get them fixed. And that way, all those problems that were talked about in the agenda before, it's taken care of.
 It falls back on the people itself again. If people have animals, they need to take care of them. They can't just throw them out in the street and let them go. A lot of people are moving away and leaving their cats behind. So somebody's gotta take care of them. And so that's the reason why I'm for the program and I hope you keep it up. Thank you very much. Thank you, the next speaker is Laura Pino.
 Laura Pino, if you're in the queue, star six to unmute your telephone. Laura Pino, I don't see her phone number in the queue. Elizabeth Ramirez, star six to unmute your telephone. Elizabeth Ramirez, I don't see that phone number in the queue either. Jessica Watson, star six please. Jessica Watson. Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. My name is Jessica Watson, and I come to you as a military veteran and an advocate for all animals. My personal experience with the TNR program, specifically Sun City Cats, has been very positive, and it's apparent that this program works.
 We have TNR cats in my neighborhood. However, thanks to the TNR program, they are not reproducing multiple litters a year, thus leading to an increase in homeless unaltered cats. I live in North Hills, District 4, and my neighborhood has really embraced participating in the TNR program. The program gives people a sense of community and participation affords people the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of defenseless cats.
 If I'm being perfectly honest today, those that have a problem with the feral cat population should be the number one supporters due to the objective of the TNR program. The TNR program is a priceless commodity to El Paso. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Marcia Margherio. Marcia Margherio, star six to unmute your telephone. Marcia Margherio, good afternoon. You have three minutes. Can council hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Okay, thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser and council members. I'd like to begin with this statement. If we keep them in a cage, in the shelter, at least they will be safe. How many of you would agree with this statement? In my observations, multitudes of people want to believe just that.
 If we put cats and dogs in cages... Go ahead, ma'am. You're back on mute. Star 6, please. Star 6 to unmute your microphone. Ms. Margario, Star 6, please. She may be having technical difficulties. Go ahead, ma'am. Can counsel hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay, I'd like to begin with this statement. If we keep them in a cage, at least they will be safe.
 how many of you would agree with this statement in my observations multitudes of people want to believe just that if we put cats and dogs in cages in the public shelter they will be safe except for that looming existential threat of euthanasia if your cat was lost and ended up in animal services
 Would you worry about its safety a little or a lot? Per National Animal Organization experts. Why does that happen? We can hear you, ma'am. Ma'am? We can hear you. Please continue. OK. National Animal Organization experts, the number one, they say the number one leading cause of death for cats is euthanasia.
 The most comprehensive study to date indicates that 72% of all cats entering public shelters are killed. Just 23% are adopted and less than 2% are reunited with owner. TNR is a community-based, community-backed means of addressing a prolific domestic species.
 Any reduction in the number of cats is a win for both felines and community. Any thoughts to curtail TNR will not bode well for the quality of life of community cats or the quantity of caring community members who interact with them on a daily basis. TNR must be the choice.
 Because killing can never be Detroit. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you Requiem a term. Thank you, Alan. The next speaker is Michael B Michael Bean star six please to unmute your microphone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Yes council. Good afternoon Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay I have a TNR colony on my street
 And it has stabilized the feral population on my block. We haven't had a increase of cats there in over three years now. There's no problem with the program. It serves a good purpose. And anything we can do to alleviate the feral population,
 the shelter overcrowding and euthanasia is a positive thing i think you guys should keep the program as it serves the community well that's all i have to say thank you
 Thank you. The next statement was submitted and it reads, My name is Norma Selig. I want to thank you for providing the opportunity to address the council. I commend the city for their support of the TNR program of El Paso. Because of your commitment to provide a humane and effective solution to control the city's feral cat population, feral cats are vaccinated against rabies, which is so important to all of us.
 Research has proven that these programs are an effective solution to controlling the population by relieving cats of continuous mating. This breeding cycle is reduced and stabilized. The mating behavior such as roaming, yowling, spraying, and fighting are also diminished. For the citizens of El Paso, there is an added bonus of rodent control.
 A particular note is that the taxpayer receives a break when TNR is implemented because the average cost for TNR is less than euthanasia. This also helps the City reach the no-kill shelter status.
 which we are all hoping for. TNR allows these cats to live out a healthy life. Thank you to Sun City Cats as well. In these financially difficult times, far too many families have little to no funds to have these cats altered at their expense. Kudos to the City of El Paso and Sun City Cats for your support of TNR. The next statement was submitted by Charles Armendariz.
 In support of the community cat program to whom it may concern, thank you for allowing me the time to offer my favorable support and agreement for the community cat program within our city. My hope for the new year 2023 is that as leaders and representatives within our community, you will be empowered to make strong, favorable choices for the good of our free roaming cats.
 I have free roaming cats that I care for regularly, and I can tell you their lives have been improved tremendously thanks to the Sun City Cats volunteer organization that use their own time and resources to trap, spay, and neuter. The work they do is exhausting and not in the least bit glamorous by any means. These community volunteer troopers deal with the extreme conditions the cats are living in. The volunteers, many of which have full-time jobs, are out in the trenches doing the hard right simply because they care.
 The program works, but only with a partnership between the Community Cats Program and Caring Volunteers. I urge you to keep the program alive so that the community cats can thrive. I wish you all a very happy new year. Respectfully, Charles Armendariz.
 The next statement was submitted by Mary Berg and it reads, I have personally benefited as well as City of El Paso by the help of Sun City Cats TNR program. The volunteers are so helpful and kind. One young lady stayed in my yard trapping cats till 11 p.m., even spending her money to go buy more cat food in order to trap all kittens in a litter. My two daughters have also had the same help with mom and four kittens, all were trapped, fixed, and ear clipped.
 then returned to my daughter's house for care. Between the three of us, 25 cats have been fixed and being cared for without any future possible litters. Thank you for all your help, Sun City Cats. The program works for individuals and city of El Paso. The next speaker is Manuel Padilla. Manuel Padilla, if you're in the queue, star 6 to unmute your telephone. Manuel Padilla. I don't see his phone number in the queue. Mrs. Wagner, star 6 please to unmute your telephone.
 mrs wagner good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes can you hear me yes ma'am hello okay good day i'm a resident of el paso and deeply involved with some city cats
 I'm calling in to state my support for El Paso's community cat program, aka the Trap, Neuter, Return program, and to thank you for ensuring that community, that this community uses the only effective approach to reducing our community cat population. Under TNR, cats are humanely trapped, spayed or neutered, vaccinated, ear tipped, the universal symbol of a neutered and vaccinated cat, and returned to the trapping location, their outdoor home.
 Trap-neuter return makes the free-roaming cats healthier and ends the breeding cycle, which means no more kittens. It also reduces mating behaviors such as yelling, spraying, fighting, and roaming. The colony's population stabilizes and over time the population will decrease. While some people criticize TNR, no one has come up with viable alternatives. Basically, there are three options. One, trap, remove, kill at the shelter. Two, do nothing. Or three, TNR.
 For years, El Paso trapped and killed community cats. Tens of thousands of cats were euthanized, but the population did not decrease. This is because of the phenomenon known as the vacuum effect. When cats are removed from an area, the remaining cats either breed back to this capacity or neighboring cats will move into the territory and breed. Cities that attempt to catch and kill their way out of the community cats are fighting a losing battle against nature and costing taxpayers a lot of money.
 The former president of the National Animal Control Association, Mark Kumpf, has called the trap and euthanize approach like, quote, failing the ocean with a symbol, end quote. While El Paso's program has room to grow and needs more resources, this city has come far. The biggest struggle we face is lack of veterinarians.
 But we continue to work together to provide as many TNR resources as we can. Thank you to the city council, to El Paso City Council, and to city management for supporting TNR, the common sense approach to the community cats. Our local animal welfare community is united in its support for TNR. Thank you for helping our community by supporting TNR and allowing the cats to be returned to their original outdoor homes. Thank you.
 The next statement was submitted by Vicky Dye. Dear City Council, I'm a huge supporter of the community cat program using TNR procedures. The procedure of trapping, neutering, and returning a feral stray or abandoned cat back to their colony or home area. It's a human strategy that reduces the number of cats in the environment. Over the years in my northeast section of town, I have witnessed, been a part of, and supported TNR in my neighborhood by trapping cats, both true, feral, and friendly.
 abandoned pets with the help of Sun City Cats. Sun City Cats helped educate train about setting traps and steering me in the right direction with my first cat who showed up unwanted at my doorstep. The process was not difficult as I was given a TNR time slot at animal services first, then trapped the cat and dropped it at animal services where it was sterilized, given a rabies vaccination and ear tipped.
 as an indication that they are in the TNR program. Quite simple, don't you think? But the best part is it saved the lives of cats, the majority that were once someone's pets. It helped free up shelter space and saved animal services a significant amount of money. For placing one cat in the TNR program, it's cheaper than euthanizing the same cat. And when the same cat is returned to its colony or home,
 lives out its life with a caregiver no cost to the city or survives on its own and it's a and it is a win-win situation for everyone in closing TNR works as it is humanly reduces the birth of more babies and controls the cat population please City Council continue to support this amazing program and again a huge kudos to Sun City cats who do so much with so little sincerely Vicky Dye
 The next speaker is Maria Garcia. Maria Garcia, if you're in the queue, star six to unmute your telephone. Maria Garcia.
 I don't see Ms. Garcia's phone number in the queue. The next statement was submitted by Marsha Carl, and it reads, Dear City Council, as an avid supporter of the community cat program using TNR procedures, I am sending this plea to ask you for your assistance in protecting it. The trap, neuter, and return strategy has not only accomplished saving feral, stray, and abandoned cats from reproducing unwanted cats in our city, but has also improved the quality of their lives, which they deserve...
 owing that the vast majority were most likely someone's pet at one time or another. In addition, from a financial perspective, TNR has also proven to cost less than euthanasia and free cats from unnecessarily taking space in the city shelter that could be allotted to other animals in need. I can personally attest to the animal services progress with the TNR program over the last several years and in particular the assistance of the Sun City Cats to educate and train volunteers throughout the city.
 and learning how to set up traps and trap them for the neutering and vaccination program sponsored events. Living in the Northeast, Sun City Cats helped me on many occasions save cats by educating me and providing traps so I could utilize the TNR program. In closing, I would like to again acknowledge the Sun City Cats for all their work and advocacy of the TNR program and ask you, the city council, to continue to support this program. Sincerely, Marsha L. Carl. The next statement was submitted by Lindsey Alvarez.
 I'm a lower valley resident in the 79915 area code. I am in complete support of the community cat program. I reached out to Sun City Cats two years ago for help for my neighbors and myself. Since then, we have not seen any new kittens in our neighborhood. I am now a volunteer trapper. The biggest trouble that we have is that we don't have enough vets. The more vets we have, the more cats we can help. I want to thank the city council for taking the time to hear my comments. Lindsay Alvarez. Thank you.
 the next statement is from jane nicholson and it reads i am a westside resident of el paso i support the city's tnr program this program works to control the city's cat population responsibly without euthanasia i want to thank animal services and the veterinarians who donate their services and i want to especially thank sun city cats who have advocated for the welfare of our cat population for many years sincerely jane nicholson the next statement is from robert collins
 I think this program is great. It helps keep the cat population from growing and protects the cats. I just wish more people would take a stand for cats. Robert Collins. The next statement is from Kara Knudson and it reads I live on the west side of El Paso. I'm writing in support of the wonderful community cat program. This program has been great for our city and the cats. Kara Knudson. Next statement is from Linda Wick. My name is Linda Wick. I'm a very passionate. I'm very passionate about the TNR program and pray that all of you on city council will continue to support this program.
 There is some very dedicated volunteers that love cats and use their time and money to trap the cats to keep the cat population down. Thank you for reading my email.
 Next statement is from Xochitl Torres. It says, hello, my name is Xochitl, and I reside in District 7. I just wanted to quickly explain why I'm in favor of the community cat program. I moved to El Paso a little over five years ago, and it is here that I learned about TNR, what it is, how to use it, and how it can benefit the cats in the community. I have seen the program work in keeping the cat population down in my neighborhood since I've been working with Sun City Cats.
 It has also allowed me to educate people on options that are available if they see feral cats within their neighborhood And I had found that most people do want to get involved in helping Keep the cat population down in a humane way as long as a program like this one exists Thank you for supporting the community cat program and for your time. So Chi the next statement is from Rosie Mata
 In 2021, when my small family and I were living in North Copia, I had an extraordinary experience trapping strays with the help of a volunteer with Sun City Cats who had been doing TNR for 10 years. I am so thankful that there are a small group like Sun City Cats who do TNRing.
 During our short stay in North Copia, I noticed that there were many strays, and I, a cat lover, fed about eight and sometimes ten strays. I got concerned because the car sped up along the long road of North Copia. I was very lucky to have communicated with Sun City Cats. A volunteer taught me how to trap and what to do with those cats while they were recovering.
 I wish there are more TNR groups in the city and they have they will have more traps to accommodate requests of people to do The trapping in their neighborhoods personally, I think and feel that TNR is the best way to control the cat population TNR is a humane thing to do because the cat population will be controlled There will be a lesser to no more. There will be lesser to no more road kills. I wish TNRing and
 should be made active through social media and TV. People need to get involved, and as the saying goes, it takes a village to make things happen. I believe that with the help of people, TNRing will be possible. Kittens who are abandoned by their moms are pitiful. Either they get run over or killed by mean stray dogs. If garbage bins are picked up during the designated days, I wish that the traps would be dropped off too and picked up on certain days as well. Volunteers are needed to make things happen. Rosie Rose.
 The next statement reads, my name is Norma Elias. I'm in favor of TNR and volunteer for TNR. What eyes can see? We heroes helping so many lost victims of society. We take charge and try week in and week out to help organizations and leaders that are volunteers with big hearts. When I heard of TNR programs, I was so glad that someone cared. There are hundreds of cats each month that are saved and given a chance at a better life.
 When I meet a new person that we are helping with the cat population, it is so gratifying when they are grateful to find out of such programs. We help the cat population and at the same time help other caring people. It is unimaginable what will happen if we stop helping our community. I wish there could be a way to voice our commitment to community on the advantages of TNR. The next statement is from Tammy Wick.
 I'm writing in support of the city TNR program. I have personally seen the benefits of the program and how it works. I have had several stray kitties show up at my house. With the help of Sun City Cats, I was able to get them vaccinated and fixed. I am also an employee of EPISD. My campus had community cats there. Again, with the help of Sun City, all the cats
 are now fixed and vaccinated. These cats are not are no longer reproducing and living happily for the remainder of their lives. I'm glad that El Paso participates in TNR and demonstrates compassion for the fellow animals that live amongst our community. Tommy Wick.
 The next statement is from Lucinda Noyes and it reads, City Council and fellow El Pasoans, I am registered nurse and Westside community member and I'd like to take this opportunity to express my heartfelt support for our community TNR programs. I began taking care of community cats a couple of years ago during the onset of the pandemic. Because I am severely allergic to cats I could have never done this without the support of the community, namely Sun City Cats.
 This group has helped me TNR 17 cats over the last couple of years. The volunteers brought me traps, picked up cats after I trapped them, took care of them before and after surgery, and then delivered them to me.
 for release after the surgery and vaccination was completed. I couldn't have done this on my own and I am so grateful for their help. My neighborhood is a great example of how well TNR works for the community. We have a number of free roaming air-tipped cats that peacefully coexist with us. People feed, water and shelter them and they pretty much leave us alone. Noticeably we don't have kittens.
 These programs work. They are ethical and effective way to reduce the number of feral cats in our community. El Paso and support this program. We give of our own time and money to take care of these animals. Please continue to support us and keep these programs. Thank you for your time and hard work on our behalf. Miss Noyes, Westside, El Paso. The next statement is from Seen Crabtree.
 My neighbor is a part of the trap and release, and this problem has helped our community. We have less cats dying in the streets, which I don't want myself or my kids to see. We have less cats having babies, creating more cats for the neighborhood. I'm really disappointed a program that is actually helping is up for debate for cut. The answer isn't to cut a program that's helping our community. The answer is more funding and support for the organizations and volunteers doing it. This earth isn't just ours, and the answer isn't to kill God's creatures who are innocent. It's an acrobtree.
 The next statement is from Sadie Charles. It says, good morning. I want to state my opinion for item 18, reference the feral cat situation. It's my opinion and hope that the city will continue supporting the efforts to humanely control the feral population via the TNR program. I am aware of all the good work these caring individuals do to care medically and feed these different colonies throughout our city.
 They care for the health and well-being of these animals to the point of incurring personal expenses to do so. The program is a success due to these individuals and the city's community who would not be able to afford to fix even their own cats.
 Please confirm your continued assistance for the Trap and Release Program. Thank you for your time and consideration. Mrs. Sadie Charles. The final statement is from Ana Molina. It says, good afternoon. My name is Ana Molina and I'm in favor of the program. I have had the opportunity of working with it and see the improvement that it does. Not only the life of cats are much better conditions, but even some neighbors that used to complain about the overpopulation of cats are now helping with the feeding and care of the control colonies.
 You can see how cats are healthier and beautiful once the stress of continuous reproduction is removed. I would like to point out how being a city that supports a program has given us good publicity, as El Paso has been mentioned on several nationwide publications, giving praise to the city for their progressive caring work. I think it is an excellent way to show everybody how El Pasoans care for our community, and of course part of it, our community cats. Thank you. That concludes public comment on this item.
 Thank you. You did a very nice job. Thank you. And with that, we have Representative Moulinot. Thank you very much, Mayor. Mr. Kepshall, do you have an approximate number of how many cat colonies there are here in El Paso and our city? I do not have that number. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Prine? Thank you, sir. Thank you. We'll go to the next item. Yes, sir. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 22. Move to approve. Thank you.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 19 to 22. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is 23, and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2023-0199, El Paso International Airport Terminal Ceiling and Lighting Improvements to Hensel Phelps Construction Company.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item 23. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 24 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2023-0054, Security Guard Services, Municipal Court to Tricor Security, Inc. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Fierro.
 Yeah, I have a question on this one. Okay, go ahead, sir. It's not the awarding of the bid, but in the last, right before, at the end of 24, it says that city manager designee is authorized to exercise the future options. And I was going to say I'd actually like to see this come back to city council so we can get some analysis of the effectiveness over the first three years before we extended another two. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Claudia Garcia with purchasing and strategic sourcing. So some years ago City Council approved the execution of options to extend administratively. I understand we can. I just don't think we should on this one. Yeah, I'd like to make an amendment to it, but they've got to amend their motions. There's an additional motion to make an amendment? Well, I would just like to have the amendment that it comes back in front of City Council before the extension on this thing. I'll second that. You know, first,
 So we'll go to the next. Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Mayor, I did have a question. No, I just am just curious on the process that the purchasing department has, and so certainly don't wanna deviate from any of our standard protocols, and so I'm just curious on if there's any ramifications of doing that, any contractual violations, and I would just need more guidance before moving forward with that amendment.
 Okay. So I can describe the process we follow internally when we are getting ready to extend the life of the contract.
 So we have several steps that we follow. First, confirming that the department is willing to extend the contract. Also, we conduct some due diligence, meaning that we some of one of them, it is checking that the vendor is not in debt to the city, that they have not been devoured under the federal government. Also, that they have performed
 in accordance to the contract. So those are some of the due diligence we conduct before extending the length of the contract. And as I indicated before, City Council had approved the administrative execution of these options without having to go back to City Council. And so you said administrative, is that language in the contract?
 Yes, it is part of the contract as it is part of the posting language when we are also requesting approval to move forward as is when city manager designee are authorized to exercise the option offered by the vendor. So a vendor could...
 could potentially say you know that hey this is a contract with the city we're gonna bid knowing that there could be administrative support so long as they meet these required metrics and they're in good standing and they're responsible and they've met the intent of the contract and then you all have the administrative support through the designee or the city manager to say let's just go ahead and move forward and and so if that's what I'm understanding a vendor is under those under that understanding as they're applying for the bid or they're submitting their bid
 Yes, correct. So once they submit a response to ASIL station, we have a section where they mark if they're offering an option to extend the contract. So that gets – that is included as part of the contract after awarding. Okay. No, just based on the additional information, I would –
 would feel more comfortable not doing an amendment at this time, however I would urge city management to, and I've kind of already had this conversation because when I first came into office we had a really great
 Purchasing Presentation of all the contractual requirements with the state losses about purchasing and I think it's such an important presentation to share even as for me as a refresher because there's so much work that we do with the purchasing requirements and so
 Thank you for that explanation. I won't support the amendment today, but I certainly understand the concern, but would be open to having conversations in the future about what the purchasing standards are for the department. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Monk. Kennedy. So I wanna make sure I understand. We put RFPs out or RFQs that lock city council out of the approval of extensions, correct?
 Yes, and this item had been approved by City Council as stated before. So the bid itself prevents us from being the deciding body on an extension? So the award recommendation, it is as indicated in the posting language, including the option for the city to extend the life of the contract for the additional time indicated in the solicitation without having to go back to City Council for approval.
 And that's not the statute, that's just what we chose to do. Right. I think if you have a question like on this one that you want it brought back prior to extension, we can easily do that.
 I have a feeling that we'd end up using the same parameters that you would use. I just, I mean, this was one that I know we talked about, you know, because they're probably going to be using local personnel and everything. Right. So I think as far as, insofar as, you know, you have a question on this specific one. So, like, if you want this brought back or you want that amendment, amend it rather, I think we can amend it up until it's awarded by the council. So you haven't officially approved it yet. Okay.
 So you could probably make that adjustment. And I think it's, you know, if any council member has a question about whatever, I mean, we're happy to put whatever information in front of you before making a decision. Yeah, and I don't want to fall in a trap where we end up losing a bidder because of a caveat. Is that right? Correct. So, Representative Kennedy, the bidders who are bidding on the award know that up until the time of council bid,
 Terms or processes can be changed. So at this point before you awarded the council's considering this type of motion You all can vote on it. Okay, then I misunderstood because we're not really locked out It was just this was the standard way to do it so we can still make some adjustments, right? Okay So then the bidder is being placed on notice that before an option will be awarded. It'll be brought to the council. I
 and i'm sure we're gonna look at the same sheet you would look at so and overall i think that you're making a good observation but overall with respect to some of the streamlining that's taken place um council had wanted a lot of projects to get done faster in this particular case this is a
 one of the fixed costs of security. So this wouldn't fall under some of the changes that we did make for capital improvements so that we could speed the process up. So there's questions and as Ms. Neiman pointed out, there's adjustments that need to be made. We're happy to hear those and make any adjustments necessary. I just thought I'd make sure I didn't blow the bid by asking. Yes, sir. Yes, Ms. Pryor. Yes, so there is an amendment made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Anello.
 to amend the item to direct staff to return to City Council prior to the expiration of the contract. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. Thank you. Laura, can I ask for some clarification? The current language at the end that Representative Kenney was talking about is in accordance with this award, the city manager or designee is authorized to exercise future options if needed. So traditionally, we don't wait till the contract expires before bringing forward an option. So just for purposes of clarity, the staff will bring back
 The the contract status prior to the expiration to whether or not council wants to exercise the option I think that's correct and what the normal time frame would be for the review before the extension Thank you. Yeah what she said yeah prior to the expiration. Yes, sir. Oh, no, it's just gonna It's all laid out there, correct I'm not mistaken all this time. It's laid out there what the option would be and what the cost would be and it won't go past that cost
 Correct. Yes, sir. That's that's correct. Just exactly what you are passing, but it's just a As we have done before we brought some things to the council just a matter of just efficiency But again, we're happy to consider I mean whatever council wants to do on different items But yeah, and even understand that Even if it goes up a dime or more than $5 or whatever. I
 I think there's a limit, but I think what gets approved is the only thing that is in the area unless there's parameters beyond that, and that's all specified in the documents. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. On that amendment, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Now, there is a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera.
 And this is to award as amended on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 25 is discussion and action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to Zoll Medical Corporation. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 25.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Your vote, Representative Salcido. Thank you. And the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Council, we've reached the final item. I just wanted to remind you that the work session from yesterday needs to be reconvened no later than 2 o'clock, please. Thank you.
 Okay, so we'll have to come back and call them. This item has not been concluded by then, sir? Yes. Yes, ma'am. Item 26 is discussion and action on a resolution approving capital improvements, totaling capital improvements, updating the document known as a five-year capital maintenance improvement plan for the ballpark for FY 2023 through FY 2027. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, members of the council.
 So this presentation is the presentation that was given back in December, December 13th by Mr. Rodriguez and myself. This is to provide an update to City Council on how the ballpark performed, so given to the Downtown Development Corporation. And additionally, as part of that, the review and the adoption of the five-year capital improvement plan for the ballpark as well. So I'm going to cover the first half of the presentation, then Mr. Rodriguez will cover the second half, covering the capital improvement project for the ballpark for the next five years.
 So looking again at the ballpark and the financing that was done on this project going back to 2012 when the ballpark was actually Financed and what we've done since then Identifying the revenue sources the hotel occupancy tax audits that have been in place since 2016 has provided the additional revenue That's helped to fund not only the tourism and marketing for the city of El Paso But also a portion of that the 2% that was approved by the voters goes to the ballpark financing as well
 The refinancing the previous members of councils are very familiar with this. We've done two refinancing on the ballpark debt portions of it at a time in 2021 may of that year we did a refinancing of a portion of those bonds and
 Ended up saving we went from a seven and a quarter percent interest rate down to a two and a half percent interest rate On those bonds that ended up saving about eight million dollars on the cost of those bonds Which is pretty significant really helping to bring down the overall financing cost for the project on the debt side But then also freeing up additional revenue as you'll see here in a minute to go to work some of the capital improvement projects that have been done over the last few years and
 and then again just with our increase what we've seen in the hotel occupancy has played a key role obviously that is the primary source of revenue that dedicated two percent venue project revenue to actually fund the financing for the project and then the capital improvement projects as well so when we finished our fiscal year 2022 which ended august 31 of 2022 this was the first year since the ballpark has been in set in play that the city has had not had to make a general fund subsidy to make the debt payment for the ballpark so this is a very very good new story
 Again, it's all of those things that I just talked about of increasing our hotel occupancy tax revenue Doing those refinancing to bring the cost of the financing down in 2016 and 2021 Getting the lower interest rates on those bonds has played a significant role in getting us to this point of having no general fund subsidy So again the revenue that's dedicated from the hotel occupancy tax the 2% venue project this is what it's referred to as restricted for the ballpark and
 Combined with the team revenue that we collect through the sales tax from the ballpark goes towards the debt payment The parking revenue receive that rental revenue we receive And the ticket revenue as well that we receive as well goes towards making the debt service payment So this was the overall revenue So not only the two percent venue project revenue, but also the team revenue as well restricted for the ballpark just under five million dollars You'll see the debt service their amount was three point six and
 There's actually a surplus of just under 1.4 million and again just to be clear that that surplus there is restricted for the ballpark So the 2% venue project the ordinance that was approved in December 2012 Outlines the restrictions on how those funds can be used There's three different things that it talks about one is to essentially cover the cost of the construction of the project of renovations of the projects paying the bonds associated with the project and
 And then also could be used with the operator maintenance of the project. However, as Sam Rodriguez will cover here in a little bit That's not a responsibility of the city on the Operating maintenance. That's the responsibility of the long-term lease tenant that we have currently most our sports group So this surplus here this 1.4 million did go back into the ballpark in the form of covering a portion of the capital projects that Mr. Rodriguez will present in just a minute
 so looking at the performance and this is a really really good encouraging slide again that shows that we bounced back from covid pretty nicely this is the again the dedicated 2 hotel occupancy tax revenue that is restricted for the ballpark and you'll see that from 2014 all the way up to 2019
 Pretty gradual increase in growth 2018 and 2019. We saw really strong growth in our hotel occupancy really helped Get us to the point where we were very very close to having no general fund subsidy Unfortunately as we're all well aware we did into the kovat in March of 2020 which impacted This revenue source for those two fiscal years and you'll see on the far right hand side there again 2022 which ended in August of this past year just under four million dollars of two percent venue project revenue dedicated again for the ballpark
 and then this slide here is just a comparison to show how the revenue sources have performed again that two percent hot that first line there going from 3.4 prior to covet and then obviously the decrease and then where we are with fiscal year 2022 3.9 million the bottom row there so is the general fund subsidy so again if you look at fiscal year 2019 the general fund subsidy was just under 90 000 and so we had actually projected again prior to covid that in fiscal year 2020 we had anticipated no general fund subsidy
 Unfortunately, we were severely impacted the hotel occupancy tax revenue was one of the sources where we did see a pretty dramatic decrease in that revenue source So we did have the German subsidy of five hundred thousand roughly in 2020 and 2021 and then again in some mention in 22 2022 no general fund substitute was needed. I
 So then we project it out because this is what as we develop the five-year CIP that's a requirement through the agreement that we have Contractually obligated to develop this presented to the council for approval I work very closely and providing this information to Sam so that he knows as he's developing out that five-year CIP What are the available resources as far as the revenue? And so you see in 2023 through 2027 right now. We're projecting just under 26 million dollars of revenue and
 just over 20 million dollars of expenditures related to the debt service and so bringing that overall surplus over the next five years to approximately 5.8 million dollars and again that 5.8 million dollars of surplus there again is restricted for the ballpark and so it's again going back to that ordinance that was approved by the council in december of 2012 there's restrictions on how those funds can be used renovating and taking care of the ballpark through those capital improvement projects is one of the allowable uses
 And so this $5.8 million would go towards a portion, a large portion of the five-year CIP that Sam's gonna present here. Can you, before you go, can you go back to the slide with the revenue? Right, ticket revenue part. So the ticket revenue is flat in 19 to 22, you know, obviously we had COVID. So 2020, there was no season. In 2021, there was a partial season. There were, was the late start to the season.
 There was also a restriction as far as capacity that they had at the games that they did have. And so that did impact the ticket revenue that year as well. Now, is she a big increase in parking from 19 to 22? Did we have an increase in parking rate? Some of it. There is an increase every five years in the parking, the rent, and the ticket revenue as well. So there's a 10% increase in those every five years.
 the parking increase again it's just a timing issue that we have and so when the monster sports group provides that a revenue source to us but no there was not an increase in the overall rate or fee that the monster sports group pays us in 2022. okay so we had a so I know we had a increased while back so we did have an increase in parking rate
 Correct, and they get the parking rate on certain hours during game time, right? And so every five years again and that's built into the model on the five-year forecast that I did present And so every five years we do is see the 10% increase in those three sources the ticket the rent and the parking as well so that does provide additional revenue combined with the incremental increase we've seen historically on the hotel like a fancy revenue we do see a
 anywhere from a one and a half to three percent increase in that revenue as well and so that obviously helps The available but just to be clear on this slide again. These are forecasts and estimates Obviously, there's a lot of assumptions that are built into developing Assumptions assuming again that we're not impacted with another Pandemic or some of the things dr. O'connor has been presenting on that would impact potentially this revenue source But just looking in the next five years conservatively what we're looking at again continued to generate a surplus and
 which is, again, a really, really good news story about not having to rely upon the general fund to help subsidize this debt payment or any of the capital improvement projects. Do we have any revenue from the concessions and souvenir sales? None? Okay. No, sir. I didn't see that on there. Just the sales tax. So your forecast is basically increase in hot tax and –
 Every five years, right, with the rent revenue that we collect. Okay. And that's the next biggest, largest source is the team revenue that we receive. Currently $440,000 a year. Of that $440,000, $150,000 of that is restricted into the capital improvement fund, which is, again, outlined in the agreement that we have. And the remaining $290,000 goes towards either the debt service payment or capital improvement projects, in this case debt service. Okay. Thank you.
 Sam Rodriguez, Chief Operations Officer. I'm gonna take you through the five-year CIP and the selection of process projects and the recommendation.
 Timeline of the agreement, again, we're coming up on the 10 year anniversary here, which has passed it with the ballpark being a city facility. It was built by the city and leased out to Mountain Star Sports Group. There have been two amendments over the years. The last one was associated with the soccer functions. When the EP locomotive came into town, the team paid for modifications to the locker room and to the field to accommodate the soccer functions there.
 Part of the agreement requires that we bring a capital improvement program to the City Council for approval on a yearly basis. The last one that was approved was in August of 2021, where we received direction from City Council that there was going to be no general fund associated with funding the capital plan. And to date, we have completed 33 projects as part of the agreement on the capital side.
 The agreement does call for the city to cover the capital expenditures. The process that we go through, we receive a list from the team of the various improvements that they want to see covered by the capital plan. We use generally accepted accounting principles as our criteria as to whether it ends up on the capital plan or it becomes a maintenance cost that is covered by the team, Mountain Start Sports Group. Thank you.
 Mountain Star Sports Group is also responsible for the ongoing operations, so they pay for our utility bills, they pay for all the operation, the water, the utilities, and obviously the staffing and everything that happens at the ballpark for the events. This is the list of projects that were completed 2017 through 2020, and then this is the follow-up list from 21 to 22.
 This slide provides you the fiscal years 23 to 25. These are projects that were previously approved in August of 21. They included fiscal years through 25.
 And what we want to show here is the impact of COVID. We've shared with you in the community how construction costs, inflation have really increased construction costs across the industry, and this is no different. So back in August of 21, we had an estimated cost of 3.1 for these projects. Now we're at $4.5 million.
 And then running out and including the next two years, what's before you today is the approval of updating the cost for fiscal years 23, 24, and 25, and then adding the projects for fiscal years 26 and 27. That brings a total cost of $7.9 million. As Robert stated, when you look at the capital plan over the years, this is the breakout, the biggest cost here over the next couple years is the video replacement.
 that was allocated for fiscal year 23. The funding for this program, $5.8 million, as Robert stated, is from the ballpark revenues, and then $2 million is associated with the sale of capital assets that can only be used for capital projects, and brings the total funding of $7.9 million. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. So everything that you just presented that you went by is,
 part of the agreement in the contract that we've agreed to do. Because I know on the contract, when I read it, it says to maintain the facility and to keep it in operating conditions, but getting a new scoreboard, and where does that fall under in the contract?
 So the capital expenditures, again, we use under the contract the general accepted accounting principles. We look at the useful life of the various components of the facility, and that's our starting point as well. We also do the inspection. We have discussions. I can certainly tell you that not everything that they request makes it to the list. There are certain things that get pushed out over the years because we see that there's good life still remaining on some of those elements, and so that's the criteria there.
 The video is part of the structure, the overall function of the facility. It's not a maintenance or an operation. It's part of the structure itself, and that's why it's included in this part of capital plan. Because currently the contract we have is in operation, and it is one of the state-of-the-art scoreboards within minor league baseball. So it's not inferior to other ballparks, and it is in operating condition, correct? Correct.
 Mayor, the video was 10 years old already. The infrastructure to support the parts, the infrastructure, again, was pretty much at the end of the useful life. When you look at video boards, jumbotrons, those kinds of things, that's typically the life expectancy of a facility of something like that is about 10 years, 10 to 12 years. Do you have some backup to show us the lifetime of those? I can certainly follow up and send that to you. Absolutely, Mayor. Okay, thank you. Representative Molinar.
 thank you very much mayor i'm not sure which gentleman would answer this quick question so i know there was a slide reference the hot tax and it shows increasing numbers post covet which is a good thing but in theory should the short-term rentals ordinances pass uh would that be a positive for the hot tax increase yes it would and so overall hotel like currency tax revenue
 Nine percent is total what the city collects seven percent of that goes towards the marketing tourism promoting the city And then there is the two percent which the voters approved in November 2012 Again, it's the venue project that I just talked about so two percent is dedicated to the ballpark and so if there was yes the short-term rental where we were collect additional hotel occupancy tax revenue a Portion of that would go towards the ballpark. Okay. Thank you, sir Thank you
 Mr. Rodriguez, can you give me some examples of things you denied? Examples of things? That weren't approved for us to approve today in that $8 million? Yeah. Off the top of my head, I have the list in our files. But typically things like, for example, they've requested certain furniture furnishings.
 Chairs that have seen weathering. Those are the kinds of thing we pushed out. We asked them to extend those as well other things that they've requested are things like Concrete replacement in certain areas. We asked them, you know, just let's push that some of that stuff out It gets you know, even though it doesn't look great in some of the concrete areas, especially in the splash pad area Close to Santa Fe we asked those to put get pushed out so there's various elements that they come through and request and
 Again, ultimately we're looking at the functionality of the facility, the MLB requirements that get passed down to the AAA teams, as well as any safety issues that are associated with it. And you and I had a conversation during the training with the city manager there, and I brought up the point on trash cans, and you mentioned to me that was part of the contract.
 that that we had to replace them my question to you is how long is the life of this contract the life of the contract don't off top of my head 30 years 30 years and and every five years we revisit it for what was the last improvement number this one is going to be is projected to be five the next five years but next year you will see the capital plan again I just what was the past one the first five years how much was that improvement
 The total on the previous, the last time it was approved? Right. Don't know off the top of my head, but I can look it up for you. Okay, please. The other issue I had is, is there, I guess this would be a question for legal counsel, but is there an opportunity to renegotiate this at some point? So that's certainly something that counsel could vote on and recommend if you all wanted to.
 the provisions of the document don't specify that type of language but based on the length of it if council wanted to direct the staff to do that we would certainly go back and talk to them about that two more questions in there one is I guess this is for city manager what happens if this contract is not approved
 then the items as presented would not be paid for. We would have to meet with the tenant and talk to them about looking at the contract because I think by not approving it, we're not staying within the contract and we would have to negotiate with them or talk to them about what the options are for both sides. Thank you. And last question for, I'm not sure who,
 Let's take out the two years of COVID, 2021, where there were one no season, and we still subsidized $500,000, and the other season, which I think was $400,000. You take out those two years, how much has the city, the taxpayers, subsidized the ballpark? So the total of the first eight years, so up until fiscal year 2021, was $4.2 million. In fiscal year 2022, we did have the $1.4 million surplus, and so it brings...
 Look at the net so point one million correct four point two million for the first two years But we just made a hundred thousand so four point one. Okay, that's fine No, the surplus for fiscal year 22 is 1.4 million. Okay, so we take out a million. All right I think it's important to also to note Sam mentioned it is that this is the city's asset So the ballpark does belong to the city We're required to make the debt service payment on it that debt service goes all the way through the year 2043 so to have a long-term tenant well with the agreement that we currently have and
 The team did actually extend the agreement that they have with the San Diego Padres triple-a affiliate They have a 10-year agreement with that team. So that's really really good encouraging news as well But we know we have a tenant there with the team that's gonna be in place for the next over years Again to make sure that we're generating that revenue that's being funded to pay the debt payment for the ballpark Yeah, representative fair. I was not able to find it But I can tell you is around probably what four point five million dollars is what was presented to City Council and I'll follow up And send that to you. Please. Thank you. I
 Thank you, sir. Representative Nenell. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. So I want to completely understand what the language is, right? I know that they're in the agreement. There's language that says that we can only spend the surplus on maintenance and debt. I know you listed other things, Robert, but that's generally it. And then there's language that we are responsible for certain maintenance. Well, not maintenance, but upkeep. Does the language state that we have to do all maintenance or just what is covered by the revenue?
 Does that make sense? Yeah, I mean we're not capped by the revenue under the agreement. If there's capital things that come up that exceed the revenue that we have available under the contract, we evaluate it and we make recommendations to council. Ultimately city council is the approval.
 And I mean, I don't love the agreement, but that's the one that's in place right now, and if council wants to have that conversation, fine, but this is what the agreement is. But I do just wanna kind of understand how logistically we're going to do this, and I do wanna apologize to you, Sam, that I was not able to make our briefing. We had like a family situation that had happened right before. So those may have been, these questions I'm about to ask may have been answered.
 and that is my fault. But so if I'm looking between slides eight and 17, so based on what is being asked, the revenue and what needs to be done, we are about a million dollars short
 23 a million dollar short in 24 700,000 roughly in 25 and then you know we're 600 kind of more and all of that will change right because revenues and things will change but I mean right now we have a two million dollar surplus for 23 but the total repairs are 2.6 so where is that point six coming from
 So as Robert presented, there's a surplus this year, I think it was $1.6 million, and then the capital assets is $2 million. Oh, so those are different. I'm sorry? So those are different, the capital assets. Correct. Okay, that was my misunderstanding. So the only money that are covering these requests are coming from the ballpark? Yes.
 The ballpark and the $2 million from the capital assets. And what are the capital assets? Those were from the sale of real estate transactions that were previously briefed to council in executive session. So we are essentially, I mean, it may not be general fund money, but it is city revenue that is non-ballpark related is going into this. Correct. It is capital asset money, and it is restricted only for capital expenditures.
 And do you have, I'm sure it's in the other document in the backup, the exact list of what, I mean, I see you have, oh, I see. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm, like, talking to myself right now. So slide 14 is everything that's being done? Slide 16 is the approval representative that I have on the screen. That's a total list of projects by fiscal year and the total of $7.9 million. And this is determined by who? Like, who does what?
 an overhaul and says the floor is bad, the TVs need to be replaced, the security cameras have issues. Who does that?
 So the team requests the list as I mentioned. Myself and CID staff go through and do the inspections and evaluate the different components and we either agree or don't agree that it's a capital expenditure and then looking at the cash flow we work with them on when we allocate the funding for those particular projects and then also again not everything on the list gets approved.
 we ultimately make a recommendation to city council on the list of projects that we believe are eligible for capital expenditures that have exceeded a useful life.
 Yeah, I mean it's just like the suite upgrades $80,000 So it's upgrading for flooring just to remodel those of those spaces again The ballpark is is our ballpark and it's coming up on ten years They do a great job Maintaining them for sure and it's certainly When you look at remodels and opportunities for upgrades It's certainly something that
 working with the ballpark and keeping it a great looking facility, I would believe the capital expenditure should be there. Well, and they did just get an upgrade, right? Because the city suite has new artwork in it that I think wasn't there until post-COVID. So there have been some upgrades. So this, I mean, this is what I'm talking about. Like I can understand security cameras are a necessity.
 I don't know what $200,000 for bird mitigation is, but I know that keeping birds off the field is very important. But the suites are beautiful. And sure, they can be upgraded, but is that a complete necessity? Because $80,000 can go a long way to city funds, right? And so...
 I just, I don't really understand why we're spending $80,000 on suite upgrades. I don't understand $11,000 to locker room upgrades because I don't know what $11,000 can really get. I'm sure you have a more defined list. I don't know if you know what that is.
 So from the area that we looked at, there's specific equipment, plumbing, and fixtures that need to be upgraded that are starting to malfunction in the locker room areas. So that's what would be the $11,000 represented. Yeah, I mean, it's nominal, right? But again, the stadium signage, is there something wrong with the signs? Yes.
 Just on, again, upgrading the fading of the signage, when you look at them, are they in terrible, horrible condition? No, but they have exceeded the use for life and they're due for replacement.
 Yeah, I mean, for me, I completely understand that. I don't want to say that's wrong, but I think when we are just looking at the projection of revenue, and so, again, these will all change because we're hoping that revenue will go up, but in 2026, you're looking at like $600,000 in revenue.
 a $600,000 surplus. So when you're looking at things like suite upgrades, when the suites, I mean, we go in them, council gets to go twice a year, they're beautiful. And things like signage, like yes, it's not a problem right now, but it can be. I don't understand why we're not pushing those certain things to a year where we're already knowing we're gonna have a surplus. Does that make sense? I understand. And so I would like to revisit, I think, if there's a $2 million from assets,
 I think it's a fair, I mean, I don't know how you would cut this out, but I just think that there are some things in here that I'm not super comfortable with, and I don't think they're an absolute necessity. And it's not general fund dollars, because those dollars didn't make it to the general fund yet, but that is revenue for our community.
 Thank you. Well, I know that I know that this contract was put in place in 2012 and there's been several changes that we Have made in order to make it less costly for the city to include the refinancing of the bonds which has saved upwards to 20 plus million dollars and
 Think if the direction from the council is to use the dollars that are in the pipeline with regard to the revenues that are generated from hotel motel tax and Look at those numbers again Maybe push out some of these projects and have a sit down with the with the team we can do that and then possibly bring it Back if that's amenable to the council. That's good plan. Thank you for that. I
 And I did look up scoreboards. They last 100,000 hours, roughly 10 years. So that would be 27 hours a day for 10 years. So they're not on 27 hours a day for 365 days a year. So you're right. What you said is correct. I did find that. But that's if it was used 100,000 hours over a 10-year period.
 So mayor that it all depends on the brightness, right? There's so many Mayor and I think you and the council know that I
 Sam and his team do an incredible job there. They set the standard with regard to a lot of the things that they've done in Capital Improvement's department. So I do understand that the genesis of this has to do with Council's heartburn with respect to the contract itself. So if you want, again, we can go back and look at the revenues that are generated, which it looks like here we'd have to look at pushing out a couple of million dollars. And we can get with the team and then make those adjustments if that's amenable to them as well.
 because we do have a contract with them, and then perhaps bring that back to the council for consideration. If that's the guidance and direction that I believe we're hearing, we can possibly take a crack at that and bring that back to the city council. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Piero.
 Thank you mayor, and I know this contract was done in 2012 and a lot of the things that were passed were approved by previous councils But I from my understanding and I'm not a lawyer I've read a few of those contracts and it reads we're contractually obligated And I know that some of these things and I'm agreeing with some of my colleagues that they're not really or they don't feel comfortable with so I do think that it'd be good if I
 you know, we send it back and you all relook at some of the ask because of the last thing we want to do This is a city facility. We don't want to not take care of it, right and end up with a you know I think we don't take care of it today. It's gonna cost more money later so I guess take a look at deep dive from where these stock these items that are being asked for and see a more reasonable list that makes sense and so that we can be able to I
 Make sure we're taking care of the maintenance for this facility Yeah, that's a motion I'll second Thank you for that I would just I had a question about the hot tax is there a since it was voter approved correct the 2% and I'm not sure we're in the ordinance. It says or if it's in that contract but is it also in the ordinance that called for the election and
 Is it stipulating that council must upgrade and do the the capital improvements? That's in the agreement the master lease agreement. We have the team with the all-star sports group. I
 Do we know if there was any ordinance language tied to that in the hot tax? So the ordinance that was passed it was December 18th of 2012. I have a copy we can pull up and send it to you I know it just outlines the References this local government code statute related to the 2% venue project finding how those funds can be used but it doesn't reference anything as far as couple improvements or anything related to the actual ball part is focused on the collection and the use of the 2% hotel occupancy tax funds and
 regarding the capital asset funds from other cells of city inventory is in my understanding that can only be used for capital or can it be used to transfer to other accounts section 7.6 of the city charter outlines that any cell of any
 City capital assets has to be used for Capital assets can be used for reoccurring operational Okay, and you all came forward with this proposal in the past and we asked you all to I think at the time the proposal was to use a
 general fund dollars if I'm not mistaken I think the direction was to find other something else other than general fund dollars right but yeah the initial request to council as hey don't utilize general fund subsidies look for other ways and so is this the response to that action that we took
 It's to meet that response and it's also again to continue the investment in the ballpark and meeting what Sam presented but yes, so the recommendation
 is to accomplish exactly what the council asked us to do was not to utilize general fund dollars okay and i was one of those who were concerned about using general fund subsidies since the public has already paid their their fair share for that respect but i think this is certainly an eloquent way to address the concern about general fund subsidy when it could be used for other critical department and necessary needs and so i i am supportive of utilizing the capital assets um
 utilizing projections of the hotel tax but but also I wouldn't want to abandon what has been approved and what I consider to be critical infrastructure and necessary upgrades for recruitment of new tourism and more attendance that's also very important you know people make upgrades to facilities the city should be no different and so I really think
 that this more refined list that you already presented over, I think it's been over 18 months that we've been having this discussion, we should give some commitment to our contractor, our vendor, so that they can do the necessary upgrades to align with their seasons, right, because they have
 To make these investments that align with their seasons and so I'm concerned about more delays and what that means for opening day I know some people here has experienced opening day and even throwing the first pitch And so we we're all part of it. This is our asset I think this is an eloquent response and I appreciate the work that you've done thus far I'm supportive of it as is because those upgrades are necessary. Thank you you know the challenges those first couple years and it's a couple of the largest expenditures that Sam talked about and
 and the reason why we have that recommendation to not only utilize the hotel like efficiency tax but also the sale of those capital assets because we would need those funds if it were to prove the way it is today those funds on those first two years 2023 and 2024 to be able to fully fund those capital projects in that list and so i've already worked with sam over the last several months to try to smooth out those costs as much as possible exactly what the council is asking you know can we do this in year three four or five so that we don't have these because there's 2023 and 24 when you look at those costs those are the big years
 So what can we do to try to smooth those out so we don't have big hits in one year? And I know that he's done a really good job at trying to work with the team to do that. Thank you, sir. Representative Rivera followed by Representative Piero. Thank you, Mayor. Question. If we go back and talk to this team about this contract, is there any legal issues that the city will be bound to as penalties or maybe a breach of contract or whatever?
 Mr. Rivera, I wouldn't jump to that conclusion immediately. There are provisions in the agreement that allow for the parties to have a discussion about what you all are addressing with Sam and Robert. Also, the team has other options in terms of how to fund that and then come back and ask the city. Thank you.
 for reimbursement. So that's included as part of the agreement with the team. Okay, so if you go back and you do the study, if Council votes that way, is there any chance of, is there any chance of MLB just coming over and saying they need to have those things, those items fixed or that we're bound by that rule that you explained earlier, even before in other presentations that they were the ones that would,
 um representative i mean this is part of the ongoing dialogue um so i mean our my intention is to you know be back here within a couple weeks uh with a revised list um if that's what council directs us to to go do um but certainly uh there's some timing issues the turf replacement i know it's one that's been pressing uh the the
 the video screen replacement. I mean, and just to remind council, these projects were already approved. Fiscal year 23 was already approved in 21. So some of those are already going just because the funding is already there. What we're presenting to you is updated costs and the inclusion of fiscal years 26 and 27. But my intention is to be right back and share something, a revised list with city council looking at things like the remodels.
 Again, they do a great job maintaining the facility. That's part of the responsibility. But we certainly don't want to get to the point where something is failing. We gotta look at the useful life, good facility engineering principles to be able to address the components that need to get addressed on an ongoing basis. Okay, all right, thank you, ma'am. Thank you, sir, thank you. Representative Ferrell.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. First and foremost, Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Cortina, thank you very much for the work you did on this presentation. But having said that, you can see that most of us up here feel that we need to be responsive to our constituents. Well, anyway, thank you very much for that.
 Mr. Gonzalez, thank you for coming up with that solution or attempt solution. It's going to at least move us forward and let us move forward in making this a better community. So thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Representative Kinney, did you take yourself off or did I take you off? Okay, you're next, sir, followed by Representative. A couple of questions.
 You can help me. No, it's him. We're not tied in any way with the MLB contract, right? I mean, nothing with our contract with Mountain Star says we've got to do whatever improvements the MLB says we've got to do.
 and we're not a party to that contract correct we are not a part of the contract um however we look at the contract we are required to provide the facility for them to be able to host the triple a team um and again those even though we're not a party to the contract with mlb themselves uh specific requirements like netting those those requirements do come down to the ballpark team um and those uh get translated back to to the to the city so your translation is no no okay
 We are selling land that's restricted to capital expenditures, but it does not have to be this capital expenditure, correct? It can be other capital expenditures. How long do we amortize the board when we put the board up? Is that why we thought it was a 10-year useful life? 10-year amortization, is that what we did with it under the gap?
 So the original, this new board will go under a capital asset for 10 years, the new board that gets replaced. The original board goes on as part of the original building construction. So the total cost when you build a new facility, all the assets that go into the facility get capitalized over the life of the facility itself. Individual components, as you replace them, you amortize them depending on the life expectancy of those replacements. But once you replace it, you remove it from the asset structure, right?
 IF YOU REPLACE AN OLD BOARD WITH A NEW BOARD, THE AMERICAN AMERICAN IS 10 YEARS, CORRECT? CORRECT. OKAY. SO THAT WOULD BE WHERE THE 10. THE 1.369 FROM THE OVERAGE, AND I USE OVERAGE EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT OVERAGE, FROM THE HOTEL TAX HAS TO BE USED FOR CAPITAL ON THIS PROJECT, CORRECT? YES, SIR. BUT IT'S THE CAPITAL OVERALL FOR THE LENGTH OF THE PROJECT. COULD IT BE USED TO COVER ANY SHORTFALLS THAT WERE IN PREVIOUS YEARS?
 if they were capital shortfalls from previous years, could that 1369 be used to help defray those previous losses? Yeah, we've had that discussion with bond council. It'd be a little bit complicated. We have to go back and amend some things.
 Possible but not probable, right? Potential, yes, but obviously with the need at the ballpark, not only on the debt side but the capital improvement side as well. What we did there, Representative Kennedy, is we did a lot of refinancing that I mentioned earlier. But, yeah, you're on to the same kind of logic and pragmatism that we worked this issue from as well. I mean, my concern is the projected ballpark debt service from 23 to 27 goes from 3-4 to 4-4. And there's a – I mean, that million dollars is a –
 Pretty good job. My question is, though you can't use the hotel tax because of the restriction with the hot tax and what was put out, you could use sales tax revenue rent parking to defray shortfalls from previous years, and that might not necessarily be required. The other revenue besides the hot tax is not restricted, correct? It is. The team revenue that we collect is restricted to the ballpark. Everything you collect is restricted to the ballpark? Yes, sir.
 But because it wasn't a bond to build it, does the sales tax, can that be? It was actually bonded to build it. Okay. Revenue bonds were issued to construct the facility. Oh, no, I know that. But what I'm saying is under the restrictions from the hot tax, I know that it's required. Is it also all revenue is required to go on an annual basis? You can't even use any of it to defray losses from previous years? Team revenue is pledged to the debt. And so in actual, your question about the team revenue is,
 The series 2013b, which was, because there was multiple issuances done. Right. That is, it specifically states in there that that team revenue cannot be used for anything other than the debt. So the recommendation, that excess revenue, that excess surplus is all the hotel occupancy tax revenue. None of that is the team revenue.
 But it also includes sales tax and everything else? The sales tax, the parking. Right, correct. Could that be used for the soft expenditures like security outside the facility, which is also contracted, because that would be under the contract with the same issue? Not for the operator. That's not a cost of the operation of the actual ballpark. That would be a separate cost. It's not, but it's in part of the contract, correct, that we provide security outside the facility on game night? That's correct. Yes. But it's not considered a part of the contract?
 We got one minute left. Oh. We got one minute, and then we're going to cut it off. I can come back. And then we'll have to recess the meeting to go to the next meeting. Because we have to be there because of the 24-hour period. I'd like to see whether it's considered part of the contract, because I know the distinction you're trying to make, but we need to go back and look at that. Okay.
 So I'm going to ask for a recess of this meeting, but I also going to ask you all, I know we're going to walk upstairs and I'm going to ask you all not to discuss this item while we're upstairs or walking up the stairs so we can come down and finish the item as soon as we get done with executive session. I think staff has already said that they're going to come back. Do we just want to postpone this item and adjourn? It's up to you all. Yeah. So I will make a motion to postpone.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Portimanelo. Two weeks. Two weeks. Seconded by Representative Fierro to postpone the item for two weeks. And just to be clear, just what I said is what we're going to go do? Yes, sir. Okay. I think that would be correct. All right. Call for the vote. I don't think you need action on that. Voting session is open. This is to postpone the item for two weeks. Representative Fierro, thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Motion to adjourn.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The regular city council meeting for Wednesday, January 18, 2023 is adjourned at 2.01 p.m. Motion to reconvene.