It's February 3rd, 333 to be exact, and we'll start the meeting. And again, I'd like to start the meeting with a moment of silence. And it'll be for everyone that's lost their lives, not only in our city, but in our state and in our country and all over the world. The COVID-19 is...
 I always say that COVID-19 has no boundaries, and we need to keep everybody in our prayers and thoughts. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, February 2, 2021. It is 3.34 p.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Present. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Here. Molinar?
 Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Representative Rodriguez? Rivera? Here. Lizárraga? Present. Thank you. I believe Representative Rodriguez has temporarily dropped off. Mayor, we do have a quorum.
 Thank you. And before we get started, I want to thank everybody for yesterday was a great meeting and I thought the city staff and the county health and also Mr. Centrone, Mr. Gonzalez and everyone did a great job of doing the presentation. And in the last 30 days of taking office, in the last 30 days, we continue to improve the process and the process to make sure that the most vulnerable citizens continue.
 to get vaccinated and uh I I thank council because every time there's an issue with your with the constituents you bring it forward and our city leaders are continuing to listen and we continue to improve and I think a great uh example was uh the new website that uh it's really worked out really well and also will continue to to work with the state and um Congresswoman
 Escobar to continue to provide the vaccine for our community that the most important, you know, when you talk about we have 170,000 and I'm sure it's more than that today of our citizens that have signed up for the vaccine. It's important that we continue to look at all the avenues to make sure that we bring the vaccine to our community. And I know Mr. Gonzalez and the county.
 uh... has working really hard to make sure that that that uh... continues to happen as our process continues to improve every day every time we talk uh... will continue to make sure that we follow all cdc guidelines and make sure that uh...
 Not only CDC and state and federal laws and and I thank our team and I think every one of the City Council members for participation in bringing up Issues that need to be addressed and and as they continue to come forward will continue to address them so I thank everybody and and I look forward to a Great and productive meeting today. Thank you all for being here. That's been prime. We'll start with the
 Consent agenda, is that correct? Yes, sir All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless Separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called up for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. I
 Hi, yes I have the pros of revisions. For February 2nd, page 9, item 36, delete per city manager's office. Page 14, item 43, delete per city attorney's office. Page 15, item 44, move to the forefront per representative Anejo. And page 15, item 46, move to the forefront for representative Salcido.
 And I'd like to move, Representative Salcido's first, and then Representative Nelo's next after that. Thank you. I don't think everyone wants to second that. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any public comment? No, sir. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez.
 Yes, Rivera. Yes, please. I don't know the motion passes unanimously We now to turn turn to page 15. This is item number 46 This is discussion in action on amending the City Council's adopted rules of order including but not limited to the rules governing debate Representatives, I'll see though, please Mayor and council and staff
 I put this item on the agenda because I think a change is necessary. I heard loud and clear the feedback from the constituents after our last council meeting that the meeting was too long, went too late at night, and was not an efficient use of our time. While the circumstances of the last meetings were not normal, it was a holiday on Monday, so we did not have our actual work session. And the meeting started at 3.30 p.m., just like this meeting started today, to accommodate those children in virtual schools.
 It was still very obvious that we were taking too long to discuss some items while the conversation sometimes going into circles. I don't think that benefits anyone. And I want to look for a solution that works for us as the council and also for the community who wants to be able to watch and participate in the meetings.
 We want to make sure that we do work towards meeting our strategic goal number five, promote transparency and consistent communication amongst all members of the community. At our first meeting this year, we as a council adopted the rules of order by which we agreed to conduct our meetings. In the past, those rules were the standard Roberts rules of order.
 which are used as the standard rules for local government meetings across the country. Robert's rules of order includes a limited on time that each member of the body can speak during a debate. Two periods of 10 minutes each, and the speaker can also speak for three seconds. Everyone else has had an appointment.
 This year City Council the year those standard limits for robbers rules of orders were removed from our adopted rules of order. Some of my colleagues said that they felt the times limits amount to censorship and that they limited the ability of their members of council to represent their constituents.
 I decided to take a look at other similar cities and what their rules of order say about the debate. Austin City Council uses a standard two periods of 10 minutes in Robert's Rules of Order. San Antonio and Dallas do as well. Looking nationally, Nashville, Boston, Detroit, the three cities most similar to population size of El Paso, also use the standard limit of two times 10 minutes.
 These times limits are very standard and I think they exist for a good reason to keep a meeting on track moving forward and efficient. They also prevent the situation where a single member of council can hold up an agenda item indefinitely. Effectively a filibuster that cannot be overridden by any amount of votes not even the entire of the rest of council.
 All that said, I understand and I am very sensitive to the fact that some of my colleagues feel that the standard time restrictions on debate might limit their ability to represent their constituents. I don't want to limit that ability. That's why I intend to put forward a motion that I think represents a good balance. For the past several years, El Paso City Council has held a public official publicly posted agenda review meeting.
 typically on that day before the regular council meeting on that same day as the scheduled work session meeting since i took office i have often felt that this agenda review meeting is under utilized agenda items often come and go with few questions during the review on monday only for there to be an hour or more questions about the same item on tuesday i don't think that is a good use of time
 The motion I intend to make is to return to the debate times limit specified in Robert's Rules of Order, two periods of 10 minutes each for each member of council, but only for regular city council meetings. This will help us...
 keep regular meetings on track, the ones that tend to run the longest, and focus on efficiency. There will be no time limits for agenda review meetings or any other special meetings items that are not discussed in agenda review meetings, allowing members of council the ability to ask any question they have in public with the city staff present. This will also meet the dual purpose of giving more time to craft amendments or change
 to any item having a public discussion without necessarily having to postpone any item for two weeks. Again, I think this is a change that will benefit the community.
 by making the regular city council meeting easier for the public to follow and participate while still allowing my colleagues as much time as needed to ask questions in the public forum. I think this is a reasonable proposal, but as always, I am open to listen to what my colleagues have to say about it. With that being said, I move to adopt and debate time limit specified in Robert's Rules of Order, two periods of 10 minutes each for each member of council
 into the City Council Rules of Order, but only for regular City Council meetings with no time limit in the review meetings or any other special meeting with items that are not first discussed in an agenda review meeting. Thank you, Representative Salcido. And we do have a co-sponsor by Representative Lizarra and Representative Rivera and Representative Sargas asked to speak.
 Yes, Representative Salcido, I think that those are really thoughtful comments that you made right now, and I would like to second your motion. I thank you for doing all that research, and I'm happy to second your motion. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Lee-Sarga, and now we have Representative Schwartzbein.
 Mayor Abbott. I wanted to speak on that. Also, sorry, I didn't text you on that, but I thought you had, since being a co-sponsor. No, go ahead, go ahead, sir, please. Okay, sorry, Mayor Portia, but I just wanna suggest that we seriously consider these changes, and it's not an emotion to gag anyone or prevent anyone from speaking. I understand that we all have a lot of questions to ask,
 And I believe the same thing that the agenda review is the time for us to really ask our questions that we really need to ask in order to understand what we're voting on. We must be at our best when making these decisions during the agenda and council day. I understand that we have certain time limits.
 Representative Salcedo also said I had checked other cities and there are time constraints placed on those speaking. I would like to first and foremost say that we, I don't understand where we lost our sense of presenting quality council meetings since we begin in the evening hours, in the afternoon to evening hours.
 We have lost it in a sense to say that we are doing quantity instead of quality work for the community that listens in and wishes to participate. It is therefore that I support Representative Salcedo in this item and let it be known that this is not to gag anybody. I also wish to say this should also include
 for the media's sake because i was contacted by the media and say i would like for the media to also participate in asking the questions that they need to ask nothing precludes them from from picking up the phone and calling and being part of this council they are just as important in our community as our constituents and everyone else i asked that they participated in that matter and asked their questions and there's times when um the the the time has gone
 long and at times you can see that the Council is
 truly not focus on items that we really, really need to be focused on. And so I believe that making these sort of changes would be great. I would also listen to my colleagues and maybe even suggest a 15-10, 15 minutes first, 10 minutes second. It's, I want to make it work. I want to make it work for everybody.
 And like I said, this is a good change. And Mayor, it is up to you as a chair to take control of this body and streamline it. And actually, like you say, we wanna run efficient meetings. I agree with you as well.
 This this this issue would have been mute had you not brought it up yourself in receiving those calls. And I believe at that time everybody was receiving those calls but nobody wanted to say anything. I'm glad you brought it up and I look to you to take care of this issue and and possibly streamline it to where we become efficient again. And we're placing out the quality information just like our staff our staff is putting out great reports.
 and there are questions that we as a council has asked of them and they go one step further and provide even more information, which is very vital to us as a council and more importantly to the people listening in in our community.
 I thank you and I hope that the rest of my colleagues can see this fairly and we can all come to a conclusion and work is won. Thank you. Thank you and I appreciate your comments. One thing that I have done is run a very efficient meeting and I've gotten a lot of comments and compliments from it and I'll continue to run an efficient meeting and allow you all to be a big part of this meeting and make sure that we
 We continue to work as one unit. So I've had quite a bit of compliments, and so I will continue to be efficient in running our meetings. But thank you for your comments, sir. With that, Mr. Schwartzbein, Mayor Potan. Thank you, Mayor. I have first a clarifying question, if I can address you to reach out to my colleagues. So the proposal there is to have a 10-minute limit on
 As per Robert's order for the regular posted City Council meetings but work sessions, special agenda, LRCs, and special council meetings would have no limits for questions. That is the motion, sir. And that would also include our COVID updates if they were posted on a separate day.
 That would be the motion because it's on the work session. Okay. So, you know, again, I think this is much ado about nothing. The challenges that we have relating to the time and the extension of the time really have been when we've had holiday weekend, have had holidays where we have had our COVID updates at the same day as our regular City Council meetings. We even had that issue being brought up last year with the previous administration.
 Representing the public by having these discussions in public is why we are elected. We are here to provide accountability to our constituents and to ask the questions and represent them in every way, shape, or form. The statements I heard which concerned me from last Council meeting were from my colleagues who were concerned about the time they needed to put forward as part of this job.
 I think it should be clear for everybody that's here that this job is a 24-7 job, regardless of where we go or where we are. When we are at Walgreens, we are a city council rep. When we go to the park, we're a city council rep. When we go to change the oil in our car, we still are a city council representative. And regardless of our professional or personal commitments, this job is a sacrifice. And those statements about meetings going on too far or time spent away,
 from our loved ones is troubling in that this is what we signed up for. Nobody forced us to go and be part of this council. We all chose to run to represent our districts and to represent our beautiful community. On the diaspora during these virtual meetings, I've made it a priority to voice those concerns that have been communicated to me or my office so that I can, on the record,
 and not behind closed doors show that I'm listening and hearing what people share with me and that those concerns are being voiced to staff and my colleagues. Asking questions in my view is how we engage with each other about the very real problems and the very real opportunities and successes that we are having with our programs and our policy as a well-functioning organization of over 6,000 employees. I believe that we don't have
 with efficiency when it comes to it. It's a question of scheduling and making sure that we have updates in a work session that is separate from our regular city council meeting, including our COVID updates that are never on the same day as our regular city council meetings.
 and also communicating the kind of information. And we've been seeing improvements in efficiency just as recently as yesterday, when we had extremely successful meeting with a lot of great information. We had Jacobson from the UMC, we had really great information from city staff and city manager. So I think it's important that we have transparency and consistent communication, as my colleague Rep Salcido had mentioned as part of our strategic plan.
 with the compromise of having no limits for our COVID updates for our work session and for our legislative review committee and having the
 I can support the 10-minute limit, Robert's Rules Order 10-minute limit placed for regular city council meetings. I can support that compromise at this time. I feel that we don't really need to be discussing this any much more. There's plenty of work that we need to do for the community, and I intend to continue to work hard for my district and for this city.
 That is what I have to say at this point. Thank you again for bringing this up, and thank you again for all the hard work of every single council city representative out there. Thank you. And I know that every city representative, when they ran for public office, knew what the commitment they needed to make and the commitment that it took to run for public office. Thank you.
 That's not that need to be said because I think it's a huge commitment and everybody that's on the call today and in the room today knew the commitment and made that commitment. And I'm very thankful that every one of you all are here with us today. Representative Vanilla. Representative Vanilla.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Sorry y'all and I apologize for my camera if you can't see me. I was just on the phone with IT I'm having some issues. I just want to say you know I think that efficiency is important but I think that there are other options that we could try before going to limiting council members you know speech essentially. I know Austin was brought up Austin does their executive session meetings earlier in the day so they're not there later in the evening. I know that council at one point did meet every week
 You know there are some items that you know it's not efficient to do that every week but there are some that can be passed through pretty quickly. And so I just you know until those options are explored and we're still having the same issue I'm not going to support this item. So thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. With that we have no further questions. We have a motion and a.
 Second yes, ma'am. We do have public comment on this item We have missed mayor also. Sorry. I I'm on my phone right now, but I do have a I do have a comment as well Go ahead. Go ahead, please
 Thank you. And also I wanna say thank you to Representative Saltillo for placing this item on the agenda. I wholeheartedly agree with you. And more importantly for my constituents, I think it's completely disrespectful and unfair again, that we're holding meetings past 10 p.m. when a lot of them should be, or a lot of them are in bed and we can't expect them to stay up till all hours of the morning. And that doesn't mean that we're not here to do a job. It just means that we're here to perform
 when they can see us. Same thing goes with all our staff. A lot of staff has kids, city council member have kids. Everybody has a lot of things going on. And I mean, we need to be a little bit more humane towards the way we treat our council meetings and be realistic about it. And so you know what my constituents,
 I can't expect them to stay up past 10. So for that reason, again, not trying to gag anybody, I think everybody has very good valid points. I appreciate everybody making the commitment to be a public servant. It's not an easy commitment, but it's one that we all decided to undertake. But for that reason, those reasons, I absolutely will be supporting this item. Thank you.
 Thank you. And before we go to public comment, I do want to thank also Representative Salcedo because she did call me before placing the item on the agenda out of respect. And she told me that she wanted to call me and get my opinion because she knows how I feel about making sure that people have the opportunity to speak. And we don't time limit anyone, but based on her compromises and everything that she
 brought up today I told her that I would support her and that I thanked her for for reaching out before wanting to put the item on the agenda and making sure that I had no issue with it and I thank you for that respect thank you representatives I'll see you yes mayor we do have miss Lisa Turner that signed up to speak miss Turner if you're in the queue ma'am star six to unmute your microphone good afternoon ma'am good afternoon council can you hear me there's Turner how are you
 How you doing, Mayor? I just thought I'd just jump in on this. Fine, thank you. You know, folks, if you can't do the job, can't put in the time to do the job, then please resign so your constituents can find somebody who's willing to do the job. Now, as the mayor knows me, I've got over 20 years of attending city council meetings under my belt, and every meeting that they held over a period of 20 years.
 A lot of things come up at the very last moment, like the day that you have your meeting. And now you want to limit debate. So how are you going to handle that problem? You want to just limit everything to 10 minutes just to push it through? I'm sorry. You know, I'm sorry that you all have to stay late, but we have extenuating circumstances.
 I have sat on boards for over 12 hours without a single break and did my job as an appointee of one of my representatives for the mayor. I did my job. We didn't take a break. We went straight through, never stopped. Nothing I didn't ask of myself. So I'm not gonna ask you all to do anything different. And other people who have volunteered on boards and commissions have worked long hours, long hours,
 And then when I hear you all cry, well, it's past 10 o'clock. You're not six years old. You don't have a bedtime. I understand you may have kids. I understand you have a problem. But this is one day every two weeks. So you should be able to make your plans around that one day every two weeks. I don't see a problem. You all need to stop paying attention and do your job. Quit worrying about how much time you spend in the meeting.
 Do your homework. In the over 20 years that I spent going to city council every week and in meetings, 99.999% of the time, you all talked a lot simply because you never did your homework. You wait for the very last minute to ask questions. You didn't even bother to read the agenda. You never read the backup when there was backup available.
 So if you do your part by reading the agenda, studying the backup, asking questions beforehand, it will naturally move faster. But this is an attempt to limit people's speaking, and this is an attempt to allow you to continue to be lazy in your job. And nobody wants you to be lazy. I don't want you to be lazy. It's disrespectful to your constituents. So
 Come in prepared. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Do something that very few council members do. Prepare yourself for the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment. Well, I do want to comment on that because I've had the opportunity to meet with every one of our city council reps.
 Everyone is well qualified and their constituents did a great job of picking great representation for our city so I think that That statement that they're not ready to go to work is not accurate I can tell you that every one of them is ready to go to work and prepared and we want to make sure that we give the best effort possible so I
 I can tell you right now, without a doubt, that we have a great council and everyone that ran for office and got elected, their constituents did a great job of selecting them. And I look forward to continuing for the next years to work with this council. And with that, we have a motion and a second. And I think we need to make an amendment to that if it does pass, that Ms. Prine, you were the timekeeper.
 That's correct, Mayor. So do we need to make sure that that continues in the amendment, please? Yes. And Ms. Hamilton in the City Attorney's Office has prepared –
 the revision to section 12 and so it will read every person desiring to speak shall address the presiding officer and when recognized by the presiding officer shall address only the item under consideration for regular city council meetings in the debate each member of council has a right to speak twice on the same item on the same day but cannot make a second speech on the same item as long as any member who has not spoken on that question desires a floor
 No one can speak longer than 10 minutes at a time without permission of a majority of council. During work session special meetings or agenda review meetings, there will not be a time limit to the time allowed for each representative to have the floor. And the presiding officer has a discretion to end discussion on an item or to give the floor to another representative. And we can add that the city clerk will monitor the time limit for each representative.
 Thank you for that. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Mayor? Yes, sir. I put a request out there, Mayor. Oh, there you are. Yeah. So just point of clarification, who exactly would be, would we be involved in muting council members once again? And if so, who actually is the city staff member who would be muting city council members? I don't understand your question, sir.
 So previously, the way that this rule was weaponized by the previous administration, there were multiple instances of multiple council members being muted.
 which was a pretty disrespectful process. So I've asked the question before about who was actually the person on city staff to mute city council members. Well, I don't believe anybody should be muted, Mr. Schwartzbein. I would hope that everybody and Ms. Prine can text me and give me the time limit and I will respectfully ask you to conclude your your question.
 your comments and also if you need another 30 seconds or whatever i'd be more than glad to for a little extra time to finish your your statement i will respectfully do that one thing that i want to make sure that is well understood today i'm not trying to emulate any prior council i don't want to be like the prior council i don't want to be like austin i don't want to be like dallas boston or anyone
 We're El Paso, we're unique, and we need to continue to be ourselves. So Ms. Prine is very respectful, and she'll text me when something needs to be done. And I will not mute anyone. I'll ask you respectfully to wind down your conversation. That sounds great. The other question I have, and this is to our city manager. Again, the sort of long meetings that have extended past midnight have had when we've had our COVID-19 updates up.
 not on a work session item but during the regular city council agenda um is there any way moving forward that we can that we can be assured that those covet 19 updates would not be on a regular city council meeting um even with a uh even with a holiday week if i'm not mistaken i sent council an email stating that we've done that before and that was simply just um
 something that we didn't do this time that we'll do in the future from now on and it's been and if i didn't tell the council that i know i'm so you did that so okay you did so laura laura klein will be doing that going forward so that it's not something i have to request or the mayor or anyone else has to request it's just something that's automatic and that way council understands that if we have a holiday on a monday we're going to have a tuesday wednesday meeting
 similarly to how we're doing this interview process we're going back and forth on whether or not to have it on monday or tuesday and we just said well we're just having a wednesday so we have a meeting yesterday we have me today i mean tomorrow for the interviews for the judges so that's how we'll do it going forward and we won't have to make any uh statement or adjustments or give directives it's already been made okay and lord prine has that and it'll happen from here on out so we should not have the the the um
 that came up as a result of those meetings being backed up with one another. Okay, well this seems to be a reasonable compromise for a problem that doesn't exist. I just hope that council members understand that this job is a full-time job and that it takes a sacrifice from all of us, both personally and professionally, to truly represent this community. With that, I'd like to call a question. Thank you. Before we do, we have Representative Hernandez would like to speak and I would please allow her to speak.
 I'm Mr. Gonzalez. Did you want to finish your thought real quick? And then I'll just make a quick comment. FRED PODESTA Yeah I was going to say Representative Edmunds thank you for that. I was just simply going to say that our presentations have been long and I take responsibility for that. And we have made them very robust because of all the questions that have been asked by the council and by the community and in all the questions you get from different constituents in your district. So we were doing that out of a show of um
 Now, respect, well, respect obviously is insinuated into what we do, but it was done in order to not leave anything to fall by the wayside. We wanted to be very responsive, I think is the word I was searching for, not only to the council but to the community. But what we're going to do is what we did yesterday. We were going to try to tighten it up even more.
 that we give reports by exception. And then if there's questions council might have, we might lift
 other areas so that if you have questions in those other areas, we'll still make it available to counsel to ask questions. But there's been progress in every other area that we didn't brief yesterday. A good example of that is I had to field three complaints yesterday from community from people in the community that were complaining that we shut down practices for nine and 10 year olds because they didn't have a permit. And because that's not allowed right now because of the restrictions.
 Well, I can guarantee you that that's being monitored and we're making sure that the community is complying with that. It wasn't a very pleasant conversation because I can understand and appreciate the gentleman who was making the argument on the other side who happens to be an MD, a doctor, and made very compelling arguments as to why are high schools allowed and not for little nine and ten year olds.
 And the answer to that is that the state has allowed the high schools and given them an exception. And we have our own rules. Every city that is stopping that kind of activity. And we also have some information from the fall where when we did start up that activity, we did have a spread.
 so we do have some data kind of back that up but i do think that the md who i was talking to the doctor made a very good case and it was hard for me to argue with him and i wasn't arguing with him i was listening but again it's been our fault as a staff the reason why some of those meetings have lasted so long in terms of the length and then the council gets very passionate about the issues we discussed so that's understandable that's all i wanted to say thank you and thank you i did not mean to cut you off there mr gonzalez
 I don't know why the audio doesn't sound as good. So I agree with you Mayor Pro Tem that these are reasonable compromises and I quite frankly don't think there's a problem either.
 Um, and, uh, one thing I'll mention is that I got a I got a very lengthy email from a constituent yesterday because all of the questions that I pose were questions she posed to me. So just keep that in mind that our constituents are watching. They're watching this very conversation right now. I wish we have this conversation when we adopted the rules.
 But, you know, I appreciate the fact that there's been some compromise with the agenda review and work sessions because that's, you know, that's really critical during the pandemic because that's where a lot of these discussions are happening. So the reasonable solution here is what Mr. Gonzales says, let's have a Wednesday meeting, a work session, so that we don't have these marathons of meetings throughout the night. I too have children. I, you know, it's difficult for me, but, you know, it's what I signed up for. Our state legislature, they stay up till late night,
 our Congress stays up till late night. That is expected when you're in office and stuff. But if this is what's gonna appease council, if this is what you all are truly passionate about, I'm happy to support it. Thank you. Thank you for that. And if anyone needs a minute or two more at the end, you know, with respect, I will please ask. I would appreciate that and we'll grant you the time with respect, of course. And with that, the question is praying.
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to amend the Rules of Council as previously stated by Representative Salcido and read into the record by myself. Representative Rivera is trying to call back in. He's having technical issues. We'll wait for him, but I think we know how he's going to vote, huh? I believe he's back now. Representative Rivera, are you back online?
 can you hear me now yes sir now we can see him yeah okay thank you thank you very much i had a little power surge i guess so there is a motion thank you you are a power surge at rivera with that um the question is prime yes sir there is a motion and a second to approve the amendment as previously stated on that motion mayor pro tem shortline yes representative anello no yes molinar nay salsido
 Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? And this is on the same item 46 correct? Yes. Representative Rivera on 46. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye. The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Anelo and Molinar voting nay. The motion does pass. Representative Rivera I took control and waited for you. Thank you so much. You're welcome sir.
 And again, Representative Salcedo, thank you for the courtesy you extended in this item when you called me. Thank you again. Thank you, Mayor. The next item that was moved to the forefront is on page 15. This is item number 44, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 17, Housing, Chapter 17.20, Fair Housing Ordinance to amend...
 Entire chapter to change the word handicap to disability and to include protections against discrimination for reasons of sexual orientation and gender identity Yeah, I'd like to call in representative Rinello who asked to move the item forward Rinello I think there's public comment on this item. Can we take that first? There is we do have some members of the public that signed up to speak on this item, would you like to hear it first I
 Sure. Unless there's a mark. I don't know if you plan on doing a presentation. I do. It's basically a two slide presentation. I can get through it rather quickly. Okay. Let's do the presentation and the comment. Right. Thank you. If I wouldn't mind bringing that up for me, please. We'll take the presentation. Then I will take any council concerns and then we'll take public comment. Thank you. Mr. Weber, I'm not sure everyone can hear you. One second, please.
 Next slide, please. As you all know, back in October, we presented to you the analysis of impediments to fair housing choice that we put together in partnership with the Fair Housing Task Force. And one of the items that actually turned out to be low-hanging fruit that was brought to us by the Fair Housing Task Force was that we lack local protections for
 against housing discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. And so what we are presenting to you now will rectify that. Essentially, the Department of Housing and Urban Development will investigate fair housing complaints based on local protections as long as we have them in law. And so that's what we're proposing to do today.
 Essentially, this was it's replaced in its entirety simply because there are so many places within the ordinance itself where it lists those protected classes. But the amendment is actually rather simple. One is is updating language to and if you could go to the next slide, please.
 The ordinance referred to handicap, and so we're updating that to disability. But the real purpose and meat of this amendment is including sexual orientation and gender identity as protected classes against housing discrimination. And that's the entire presentation. We look forward to any questions that you may have.
 We don't have any council questions. And representatives, mayor and council, this is Nicole Ferrini, Chief Resilience Officer. Mark, thank you so much for the hard work that you and the staff have done alongside the Fair Housing Task Force on this item. I just want to remind the council that this is one of the big success stories that you heard about yesterday from the chair of the Fair Housing Task Force. And I also just want to reiterate that this is the beginning of
 some additional work that we need to do to focus on equity in our community to really understand what equity means in the context of housing as a human right so thank you mark and thank you mayor and council for hearing us uh this up this evening thank you mr perrini
 with that we have any public comment yes mayor we have four members of the public that signed up to speak the first person is mr jesus zapata followed by miss lisa turner adriano perez and jonathan macias mr zapata if you're in the q sir please press star six to unmute your microphone nicole nicole do you need to interrupt i believe there was public comment okay mr jesus zapata
 Star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Laura, are we getting that lined up? Yes, sir. I'm calling for public comment. Ms. Lisa Turner, if you're in the queue, ma'am, star six. Ms. Turner, we have Ms. Turner or Adriano Perez. I believe we may be having audio difficulties. I don't believe the public is able to hear me. While we're waiting to fix that, do we have any comment on Mr. Gonzalez? Yes.
 No, sir. We don't speak a little bit to now if you want to mayor. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yes, ma'am. Yeah, I just want to know. I spoke about this when we had the first hearing and why it was so important to me. And so I just I really want to thank Mark and Nicole and the other staff who have been working on this for a very long time and the fair housing task force.
 I don't believe in doing all the work myself that there are members of the community who are invested in things and so I'm really appreciative of the Fair Housing Task Force who has taken a lot of time and dedication on this. And you know I'm happy to hear from some of them when we get public comment going but I just wanted to say thank you. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Let me see if the public can hear me now. We have Mr. Jesus Zapata. Mr. Zapata if you're in the queue star 6 please to unmute your microphone.
 Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. Hi, good afternoon. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for the opportunity. Good afternoon, sir. I just want to make sure to show my support to this motion. This is really important to me as an individual. I think the change of the language is very important, and also I work as part of a nonprofit, you know, Puzzle, and we have seen a lot of...
 where we have housing, we have seen a lot of this important, the importance of this change of language in the policy. There's a lot of communities that will benefit from this and we definitely think this is the direction that we need to take in order to ensure that the rights of these populations are not out of sight or seen or anything like that and that we provide all the rights that these populations need. So I just want to make sure to show support on this item and
 Yeah, thanks, thank you for letting me talk about it. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner, star six, please. Good afternoon, ma'am. Again, good afternoon, Mayor and Council. We have a public accommodation ordinance that I believe did the same thing, so why are we doing this now too? I'm just curious, was there something in the, that ordinance that was left out?
 Yes, I can answer that. It's not necessarily that anything was left out of that ordinance. By putting it in our Fair Housing Ordinance, it makes 100% sure that the Department of Housing and Urban Development will, based on our local protections in our Fair Housing Ordinance, will investigate complaints based on our local protected classes.
 All right. My next question is, what is the chance of getting 17.20.050 exemptions A and B eliminated from this? I would suggest that staff would need to look into that more specifically, and we're happy to follow up on that specific piece. It's not something I would be prepared to speak to right now.
 I understand this, but if you're going to call it fair housing, then it's like this. Either you serve everybody in this city or you serve nobody in this city. Now, as a member of the LGBT community, I can tell you this. Discrimination is right in this city. It's everywhere, even at city facilities, mayors, councils.
 A couple years ago, a transgender child was publicly humiliated at one of your pools by one of your employees. I want you all to understand this. I want to see training for all of your employees when dealing with folks who are transgender, gay, lesbian, whatever. Everybody deserves to be treated with respect, and I expect my city to do that.
 I don't expect to hear that some child has been berated by a city employee because they're transgendered. I am not going to put up with that. I have suffered at the hands of people in this city because I'm transgendered, and I'm not going to let anybody do that to a child in this city. So I'm going to be on each and every one of you, including my mayor, to make sure that you all start instituting some training.
 You need to make sure that everybody is treated with respect, that nobody is disrespected. I can't ask for anything less, and I'm not going to really ask you for anything more. We take care of that. We can take care of a whole lot of problems. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Turner.
 thank you the next speaker is mr mayor mayor i'd like mayor i'd like to speak to what miss turner has to say that's okay yes sir please thank you for that um yes first and foremost we do have sensitivity training i will double check
 and make sure that what miss turner mentioned is also covered i'm pretty sure that it is because we've talked about that as a staff but i'll double check before i respond uh in kind to her to her remarks and to her concerns the other thing i would say is that i'm pretty sure that the person she referenced was disciplined i'll check into that as well and i'll make sure that both of
 items that she brought up, both those issues, that we address those in terms of a response to her, make sure she knows what was done in both those instances in terms of the training and in terms of the person she referenced.
 and whether or not they were disciplined um in in in response to the items she referenced in the ordinance nicole if it does not have uh all the right language in there unless there's some time limit we can always bring it back to the next council meeting and make those adjustments thank you mayor thank you sir thank you and thank you again mr turner and the next speaker is mr adriano perez mr perez star six to unmute your microphone please
 Mr. Adriano Perez will be followed by Mr. Jonathan Macias. Good afternoon, Mr. Perez. Hi. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, city council and mayor. My name is Adri or Adriano Perez. Good afternoon. I'm a constituent and voter in District 8 and a policy and advocacy strategist with the American Civil Liberties Union of Texas. Specifically, I actually focus on LGBTQ issues.
 First of all, first and foremost, I want to thank you for considering this important change and for inviting me to speak. There are a lot of things that I could share with you all today considering what I do in my professional capacity, but what I am most well versed in doing is sharing my own story. And so I would like to do that. And I share this story much.
 I share the story from an immigrant perspective, right? My parents came to the city in 1993 in order to ensure that I had the greatest opportunity to a better life than the ones that they had lived. And when I came out at the age of 17, I learned that their difficulty with accepting this news came not because they didn't understand, not because they didn't love me, but because they understood more than anyone how this might make my life more difficult.
 And in many ways it has, but I am also speaking to you from an immense position of privilege. I am housed, fed, and employed in a pandemic that allows me to work from home and limit my exposure. I am lucky, and this is not an experience that is representative of all LGBTQ Texans or El Pasoans.
 But I do what I do because I have a fervent commitment to ensuring that promise of a better life isn't conditional, not for me and not for anyone else, regardless of race, class, sex, gender, disability, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.
 And three years ago when I applied for the apartment that I'm sitting in today, I had to get a credit report. And that credit report, pulled in 2017, came back with my birth name on it, despite my having changed my documents in 2014, and despite having gone through all the appropriate channels to ensure that my documents were aligned.
 Now, this story obviously has a happy ending because I am still in this apartment today and my landlord happens to now have a complete understanding of what I do and why I do it and is supportive. But the fear and terror that I felt in that particular moment when seeking housing is still one that I can viscerally recall today.
 and to know that your livelihood depends on the individual acceptance of one person and that the existing channels at that time to report discrimination were not fully inclusive of your identity, that is a particular helplessness that I wouldn't wish upon anyone. Thank you.
 This change is small. It is not as Lisa has illustrated today, one that is comprehensive, but it is one that is reflective of the values that we should hold as a community. And this change, though small, it ensures the path forward so that others may never feel
 as helpless in securing housing simply because of who they are. And I ask you to please vote in support of this measure. I thank you for the proposal. I thank you for listening to this story. And I thank you for your service to this city that I love so dearly. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr. Jonathan Macias. Jonathan Macias, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Councillor. My name is Jonathan Macias and I serve as the District 2 appointee for the Fair Housing Task Force and previously served and termed out of the Community Development Steering Committee. I speak in favour of item 44 to amend the City's Fair Ordinances as it brings us in parity with other Texas cities such as Dallas and Austin. It also brings us in parity with the US Department of Housing and Urban Development Equal Access Rules.
 One of my personal things when I first started on the Fair Housing Task Force that I wanted
 another appointee who had talked about the impediments that we had within the fair housing task force because we quote unquote did not have enough bite or enough resources allocated for our within our city to be able to follow up on some of the complaints that have been filed because not all of the populations were adequately protected or recognized so I'm happy that we're able to do that today and hopefully can pass this I also thank you for providing us with the resources needed for us to make impact in our community
 We're fortunate to work with Nicole, Mark and Nick and many others in community and human development and we appreciate the resources that you've shared. One item that I think would be helpful for the council to know and as presented yesterday by our chair is that we have continued to meet throughout the pandemic in the online forum.
 And if we could have the council support at least looking into opportunities for us to be able to continue to meet via video conference post pandemic, that would be helpful. I understand that the provisions of the Texas Open Meeting Act have been suspended temporarily, but I'm unclear as to what the options are when they are lifted and for groups like ours that meet. Council, again, thank you for your support, fair housing and for equal access. Thank you very much.
 Thank you and we did receive notice from Ms. Claudia Gomez and Mr. Isaac Ponce that they would like their support of this item to be noted for the record. Thank you. That concludes public comment, Mayor. Thank you. Do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. We have a motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 44. Public comment has been taken on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Yes. Representative Anello.
 Hernandez Molina I don't see though yes Rodriguez yes Rivera yes Lisa Raga Hernandez representative at non this representative at non this can you hear me she may be having technical difficulties yes ma'am your vote ma'am oh I voted yes thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously we now return to the
 Before we move forward, I do want to make a comment. Mr. Gonzalez had said they were going to put the website up on the top of the screen during the whole meeting and also the phone number to register for the vaccine. And it is up there, and it's up on them, and it will be up during the whole meeting. So people can always look to see where they need to register, or if they have to register by phone or have any questions, they can call that number that's going to be on the screen the whole time.
 Thank you. And the website, Mayor, is epcovidvaccine.com, right? Yes, sir. That's the right one. It's epcovidvaccine.com or call 915-212-6843. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, we'll move to the next item. Yes, Mayor. We're on page 10, item number 37, and this is a budget update.
 So as we committed to the council, we're going to come back and give more detailed presentations. No different than we've done it in the past. I think that what the council had asked was that we make sure we come back with a very comprehensive update. And I think that y'all mentioned they'll make them like the COVID one. And I think what y'all are telling us is that on the COVID, it was a little bit different because we had to make some quick moves based on the pandemic.
 So we're going to get back to what we did the year before, where we got into more detailed information. And then at the next council meeting, we're going to get into more granular discussion with respect to the things that you're going to be hearing about today. So more to come in the coming weeks. I'll turn it over to Nicole Cody, our budget director, who will start the presentation.
 Thank you, sir. This is Nicole Cody, the Director of Management and Budget. I do have the presentation up. I just want to be sure that you all can see it. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 Today during our budget update, you've heard the City Manager state that we are prioritizing our priorities. And so what does that mean? It means that we're looking at what we've heard from the community, what we've heard from our stakeholders, and what we've heard from you all as part of our strategic plan, and ensuring that we're focusing on that long-term strategy, as well as combining it with our long-term financial sustainability plans. And today we'll discuss a recap of our FY21 budget,
 And then we'll also discuss that budget and what that scenario looked like without the adjustments that we made in order to adopt the FY 2021 budget. And today our focus will be on public safety. And as the City Manager just stated, we will be having a more in-depth discussion at the next City Council meeting. But this is an important intro in what those major cost drivers that we have and a look back at how we've adopted the 2021 budget.
 So as you know, the strategic plan is our guide, is our guiding direction and helps us continually remember to improve our financial position. While we're investing in our workforce, we've been addressing our deferred investments, and we continue to look at ways of funding those deferred investments through new revenue priorities or establishing annual funding in order to address those areas.
 We continue to look at cost savings and efficiency programs throughout the organization and engage our community to ensure that we are addressing the priorities of this community. In 2019, these 25 by 25 key strategic objectives were identified and voted upon by the City Council. And number six was expand investment in public safety operations.
 So this investment has not only been a priority for City Council, but has been a priority for our community, as seen by their vote in the public safety bonds as well.
 So as we maintain a financial focus and maintain in our solid financial position through these proactive budget adjustments that we've used, as well as the tools and resources that we have engaged, such as the Budget Stabilization Fund, to help us weather these times, as well as focusing on our taxpayers by ensuring that there was no tax increase for FY21 and minimizing an overall impact to the services that we provide as a city.
 We also were able to provide lump sum adjustments at the beginning of this fiscal year with no increase to our health care. Here is the 2021 budget by goal. And so will you notice reductions that we saw across the board? We did see an increase in two areas, both in goal two for public safety and in goal six where we budgeted the lump sum adjustments that we received in earlier this fiscal year.
 So let's recap for a moment what adjustments were made as part of 2021. We were faced with COVID-19 and we've continued to address it and deal with COVID-19 into 2021. We had limited information, limited data and uncertainty regarding the challenges that COVID-19 would have not only for our public, our community, our people, but also for our economy. How is that going to impact El Paso?
 We knew we needed to be able to protect the residents and businesses by maintaining the same tax rate while focusing on our basics, public safety, health care, our health and workforce of our city of El Paso. We were able to manage through unfunded vacancies on non-essential positions. We also deferred the residential street resurfacing and public safety capital projects.
 along with opening of new amenities and the completion of capital projects that have been presented to you by Mr. Sam Rodriguez, as well as Robert Perkins, have also discussed the deferment and the impact of those projects. We also were able to utilize, of course, CARES funding that has assisted us with dealing with COVID-19 operations.
 But looking at 2021, you see the two areas that are circled is the 2021 preliminary revenues where we were estimating to be at before we made the next two adjustments of utilizing the bridge cash differential reserves of approximately $5 million.
 as well as the deferment of debt issuance. And so, like I said before, Roberts and Sam both have presented on that impact of deferring those capital projects, and because of this, we were able to also defer the debt issuance for this year for a savings of approximately $5.7 million. So the preliminary expenses, we were estimated at $475 million.
 with the action of city council's approval led by the city manager's recommendations. We presented to you the deferment to the residential street resurfacing, the public safety capital that we had invested in for both police and fire, the postponing and delaying public safety academies,
 The grant funding through Emergent Healthcare Network for our CIT program, the deferment of sports court resurfacing and complexes that had been added in the previous fiscal year, as well as the quality of life services for both new upcoming capital projects as well as existing projects, along together with the unfunded vacancies.
 So let's take a moment and really focus on our public safety budget. Can we go back to the previous slide real quickly? Oh sorry. Sorry I just wanted to chime in and really highlight again so there's been obviously a lot of discussion about the quality of life and the impact that we've seen on those services and really this slide here is really just to take a look back at last summer and what went into that budget development process. You see a lot of priorities unfortunately including those adjustments that were taken so whether it's the street projects
 the public safety capital, not doing that second place academy. I mean, it was really across the board in each of these different areas. Obviously public safety was something that we didn't wanna impact and we did as much as we could not to impact them. We did continue to do the academies to maintain their staffing levels, but they were impacted again, by not growing the size of the police force that we've been doing over the last five years. So I think it's important to again, highlight that with that maintaining the overall tax rate, they're not increasing the tax rate last year.
 There was a lot that went into balancing that budget. So it's not just the unfunded and the vacant positions, but you can see pretty much across the board and a lot of key areas, a lot of areas that we've made a lot of improvements and investments in over the last several years have really taken a hit. And so there's gonna be some challenges that have moved out the next several months, as CMADRA mentioned. You're gonna see more of these presentations that highlights how we start to bring some of these things back online. Thanks, Nicole. Thank you, Robert.
 So as Robert just mentioned while we did see an investment or an increase in our public safety budgets
 You'll notice that in order to do this, we did have to defer a police academy. We postponed the fire academy scheduled for this fiscal year. We continued to meet our obligations for the collective bargaining agreements, but we did have to defer that public safety capital of $3 million that was dedicated for both police and fire to address their vehicle replacement and capital equipment replacement needs.
 And as part of the capital projects, we did defer the public safety bond project along with those O&M costs. So we did have O&M costs or operating and maintenance costs that were estimated for this fiscal year, but those did get pushed back to FY22, and we'll discuss those briefly in the next following slides.
 So here you'll see as a major cost driver is our investment in our public safety. We make an investment in them every year when we negotiate and agree upon a collective bargaining agreement. It's an investment in our men and women that serve both in the police and fire departments. Here you can see a list of all of those areas where we're able to invest in them to ensure that we're able to conduct
 competitively recruit, train, and retain in these two critical departments. Over the past six years, we've seen an increase of $59 million in public safety. It attests to our investment in public safety to ensure that we are meeting not only our collective marketing obligations, but that we are working to increase the staffing for public safety, primarily in police, of course, our Net 30 staffing plan,
 and maintain competitiveness to be able to retain our highly trained officers and firefighters.
 Here we're looking at the salaries. Now, please note that this does not include benefits, but this is just the salary increases that we're estimating for the next five years with 2021 being the base. And the reason you're seeing a reduction in that academy cost is because again, in the police, we are only having one academy this fiscal year. And so that's what's showing that reduction.
 And so after that, you'll see what we've built in also includes the O&M cost for the public safety bonds. So future budget impacts will increase possibly if we do not continue to receive the grant for the crisis intervention team from the Emergent Healthcare Network. That would be an increase in an estimated impact of about $1.4 million to our FY22 budget.
 And as I mentioned before, we did have O&M costs that were projected to start in 2021 as part of the public safety bonds. Those costs were primarily the 911 communications. So we deferred the request for increasing the staff until 2022. However, the need has not dissipated. The need is still there for the additional staff in order to open up a PD channel.
 Under the fire investment, you'll see a five-year investment over the next, from 2022 through 2026, and this also includes the impact of the public safety bond.
 And here you look at it together. So this is the total estimated annual increase for both police and fire with the deferred public safety bond. And so what you'll notice is that this is just, again, just salaries. We start to see that investment rise fairly quickly, beginning in 2022 and then continuing through, of course, 2026.
 This includes the STEP and COLAs, the collective bargaining requirements and estimates beyond the collective bargaining agreement period, as well as it does not include the operating increases that are associated with both the academies and the operating requirements of the public safety bond projects. So this is just salaries.
 So while that is one of our major or the major cost driver for the City of El Paso, it's important to remember that we're also faced with additional challenges. We still have COVID-19 operations as well as the compensation increase in rising healthcare costs that we continually see, the aging infrastructure of our facilities and within the city,
 as well as reopening El Paso, reopening quality of life services, and also the deferred capital projects that we would need to address. Here is a slight pause on our healthcare and pension, just to give you a snapshot on the employer contribution for both civilian, fire, and police, as well as the employer contribution for pension costs by employees for
 Civilian Fire and Police in FY21. So the next steps at the next presentation, next budget update, we will provide a more in-depth budget discussion for FY2022. We're going to be able to present to you the five-year financial forecast as we've done in previous years. It's part of our integrated budget process. And included in that is our revenue projections, our expenditure projections,
 what the phased-in approach and what we're looking at as far as quality of life services and how it relates to those deferred capital projects along with the impact on debt service. And that concludes the presentation for today. I would just simply like to add, members of the council, that the number of academies she referenced and the fact that we were plateauing this year, we're not reducing the number of officers. I believe we're at 144 net.
 We were supposed to be at 120, so we're above the line of what our projections were. Because of COVID, we needed to keep the numbers where they are. We did not want to go down from that number. If you remember today, we're where we were 20 years ago. And given the fact that the population growth, especially with the BRAC reallocation, the base realignment commission that brought in a lot more population into El Paso in the first quarter,
 10 years in the 2000s really saw our population grow while at the same time we were reducing the number of police officers, which made no sense.
 So we today where we were 20 years ago in terms of number of officers. So as you know, we've committed to that in the last five to seven years because of the fact that our response times have been abysmal in terms of they haven't been where they need to be. We talk about the bond proposal that she referenced that was voted on. That's going to entail and include adding additional officers. We made that very clear during the bond proposal of votes.
 We said that not only will you buy the horse, you'll have to feed it. And we talked about that extensively. But just want to be clear about that. We go forward with that, that's going to entail more operational costs. The second thing is she mentioned that I think bears repeating is the investment in public safety over the last five to seven years. She also mentioned the fact that there's compensation increases.
 I think the council has seen far and wide the fact that we've lost employees or employees go from one department to the other. They do that in order to get increases in pay. And so you have like a merry-go-round or musical chairs that's being played because of that issue. So the last five to seven years, we have looked at doing something each year. One time we didn't do something was the first year and this past year.
 The first year, we were right-sizing the budget, and then we did a lump sum. To this last year, we did do something. We paid for their portion of the increase of the health care costs, and if you remember, we kept them whole. We did reduce the pay, but then we gave that money back to them once we got a hold of the pandemic and those issues in relation to that. So I just wanted to be clear about that. So prior to the last five to seven years, six, seven years before that, they had gotten no increases.
 in pay so that when they saw healthcare increases, they would actually see a pay decrease to their income every year because that increase in healthcare was essentially a pay decrease. We've also invested more money in training for our employees, something that has resulted in a lot of results. I've talked about that before, but I think it bears repeating.
 whether it's zero audit the last four years, whenever the first year I was here, we inherited 21 external audit findings. We've had zero the last four years. That goes to the training that we have given our employees and then the results that they've produced.
 The 20 million that was talked about with TxDOT that was actually 19.2 million, all of that was recovered. The fact that they go from doing 15,000 potholes a year to over 75,000 potholes a year, those results that we report out on, our employees do that. And they're able to do that because we have better training now. And then finally –
 She talked about cost drivers. One of the things that's very obvious, and she mentioned it in her presentation, Nicole did, and I just want to punctuate this point, and that is that another cost driver will be getting the quality of life department back online. Okay.
 So that's gonna drive the budget cost. That's what we mean by the cost driver. That's gonna cause the budget to increase. So when we get those back online, we get your water parks that are in your districts back online, the new community centers back online, all of that is gonna provide a pressure point to the tax rate. So we wanna be clear about that so there's no confusion in terms of what's causing that pressure point to the tax rate. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez.
 I do have a question. On the slide with the police academy, the last couple years seemed, I didn't, a little further, right there, it seemed like the last three years that the funding seemed a big difference.
 Correct, because this is only showing the incremental increase. So since we're maintaining the same number of academies, which is the two academies, the only increase you're seeing in 2024 through 2026 is just the normal COLA increase that they would be receiving. So it's just the incremental. So we've built in the base in 2023. So the incremental from 2022 to 2023 will be 651? Correct. And from
 that's why i saw the difference that's why the question was because between 22 and 23 the big difference and then there was very small difference between 24 25 and 26. yes sir we're just maintaining at that point thank you very much i appreciate that and with that i got representative manello followed by representative schwarzwein maripotem that is
 Thank you Mayor. Thank you Nicole. It's a really great presentation. And I want to thank you for what you said about CIT right. For the council's information those who weren't here you know EHN had a grant that lasted a few years and then we would take over. I know that EHN is asking the state for that grant again but I think what you said Nicole is absolutely right. There is still need. You know I've recently had
 had a lot of people reach out and say, you know, we're having issues with CIT. They don't operate 24 hours or there isn't someone in 911. And my answer to them is always, yeah, I mean, I think that the challenges with this program also shows how successful it has been when it is operating. So even if EHN is lucky enough to receive that grant again, and I know, Tommy, you and I have had this conversation many times, we still need to consider
 that dollar amount because the program right now is so successful that the community is asking for more. And we knew that when we funded what we did fund. And I think that the two years it's been in operation has shown us what a great program it is. And so yeah I just I want to thank you for those comments and highlight that to the council that even with that grant I think that the city should commit to putting more dollars in if we're lucky enough.
 Representative Anello, that's a much-needed service. We recognize that, and we agree with your comments about that. I think we're just simply pointing out that if we don't get the grant, that we'll have to pay for it. And it's just simply talking about the pressure point. That's all we're trying to do because all of these things are doable, all of them, just a matter of paying for them. So that's the reason why when we talk about
 the savings. We talk about things like Lean Six Sigma savings, talk about the training that we've invested in. And I remember back in December, I think, or January, I think it was December when the council was considering those training funds. You're like, well, do we need to do all of this?
 Well, those training funds really get us the millions of dollars of savings and results that our employees are producing. And that allows us to be able to pay for important programs like this one. So I just want to connect the dots in terms of why we do one thing and how we connect it to the other. And a lot of folks have asked me, well, you talk about all these savings, where does it go? I said, well, it goes towards programs that we don't have other funds for and that's
 It prevents us from having to increase the taxes even more in years when we've had to increase the taxes.
 So it's just a matter of how we want to make sure we communicate that to y'all so that y'all know the relationship behind these different changes, whether they're savings, whether they're training dollars, and how they connect the dots. Sure. And I guess I just, again, just reaching out to my council members is that even if we are lucky enough to get that grant again, we should still consider allocating some dollars to expand that program to enhance it.
 But again, we'll have those conversations when the state makes a decision. Thank you very much, Nicole. Thank you, Ms. Anello. And Mr. Gonzalez, it looks like we've got a lot of dots to connect based on that. Yes, sir, we do. And to the mayor, to Representative Anello's comment, you know, in order to have more round-the-clock kind of service, you know, you're looking at, you know, hundreds of thousands of dollars. You're looking at at least another million dollars. And she's right. I mean, it's a very good service.
 It's one in which helps our police officers. But for all the council to hear, one of the things that we've heard the council loud and clear about is body cameras. And that's one of the things that we're looking at to ask for at the federal level. There's been a lot of discussion at the federal level about infrastructure dollars opening up and different things that in the past we might have thought were pie in the sky kind of project requests. We're gonna request those this year.
 when we look at things like the body cameras, asking for those things in terms of its entirety, because that would help not necessarily address 100% of the CIT issues, but that in conjunction with the CIT complements one another. So all those things cost a lot of money.
 And I just, the reason I keep kind of accentuating that point is because of this discussion about, you know, the budget and what it does to the tax rate and things of that nature. So I just want to constantly bring the argument or the discussion back to that. I'm sorry. Thank you again, sir. With that, we have Representative Schwartzbein. Thanks again, Mayor.
 Thank you again Ms. Cody for a great presentation and again a furthering of our sort of budget conversations that we need to be having for this community. Since this is sort of focused on sort of public safety police and fire I had a couple of questions relating to that. The volunteer on patrol program or volunteer in patrol program it was something that was released
 I think closer to last summer the discussions about that. Kind of curious are we budgeting for that or do you have an expectation when that program would start. DIRECTOR RIVERA- No but I'm not sure if if Ms. Dionne Mack's on and she's able to answer that question otherwise I'd have to get an answer back to Representative Swartzblank.
 Thank you, Ms. Cody. I'm on. We prepared for a full launching of the program, including everything up to the training of our volunteers. So in terms of the investment that was necessary to get them trained with their vehicles, uniforms, all that's in place. And it's primarily on hold due to COVID at this point. But Dion, we were scheduled to put that in place, what, six months ago? It would have been at the end of the summer. Of last summer? Yes, in the middle of COVID, sir.
 Right. So we're, we're, yeah, that's right. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. What, what are the, what are the safety issues relating to that program being enacted with COVID?
 So most of our volunteer programs across the city are basically on hold. We're not bringing in any groups for group training or in-person training and moving forward on any of those types of initiatives that are not critical and essential services at this point. And so we have several police department volunteer programs, and they're really being treated in the same way.
 I saw that we brought up strategic goal number six. I guess it was slide four the 25 and 25. With public safety being such a priority for our community not just in terms of what we have decided as a body but also what we hear from the chime in input and from emails and conversations we have with our constituents and it being such a large portion of our budget I think that as we move forward
 And that I don't know if we can go to slide 24, but that slide four, but that conversation about the 25-25 with our policy and budgets, I think it would be helpful to work to identify. You know, we do have limited resources because of COVID and just in general with our budgets. So I think that we really need to be strategic and think about how we can approach that safety and look at our our our priorities with the 25 and 25.
 We all have areas part of our town that we hear about that are of particular concern and understanding that we need to have the resources to not sort of just tackle it on an ad hoc basis but look at applying consistent pressure especially in areas that are of concern and possible nuisance and danger. And so particularly me as District 1 rep we've gotten a lot of calls consistently about
 the Cincinnati area. It's something that has been an ongoing issue. We have looked at
 We have looked at the Uptown Parking Benefit District and other ways to do it but it is one of our strategic goals to look at expanding investment in public safety operations and Uptown the Cincinnati area is listed as one of those. So I hope that as you move forward we can really look at how we can best utilize the resources we have to tackle some of those nuisance areas within our community.
 And that is the other question I have is relating to is can you describe to the public the extra costs of closing reopening quality of life services and the effect that that's having on the already established budget.
 So Representative Representative Swartzbine we are going to get into greater detail regarding the quality of life services so that way we can have a true comprehensive conversation about the budget. I think it was just important for us to be able to bring forward as the city manager said the public safety since it is one of our major cost drivers give an opportunity to really highlight that and then also discuss it in terms of the greater all of the other pieces that make the greater whole.
 Mayor, both of your questions, I think I can address those if you want me to. The first question that you had was in reference to volunteer, no, what was your first question? Say it again.
 First question is on the volunteer patrol program. Second question is relating to strategic goal number six, looking at enhancing our public safety investments, specifically within the uptown area. Right, that's the one. So on the second one that you mentioned, I have been working with the police department for quite some time now, with Dion Mack, and I've asked him in the past, and I'm going to work with him again to look at
 placing the resources where we have the most crime. And that's a process that I've done in another organization that I managed, and it worked extremely well.
 So that in concert with the VIP program, I think can get us down the road faster than kind of the work that we've done up to this point. And, you know, they are, we are one of the safest cities and the numbers on the crime rate has gone down significantly this past year. Some of it due to COVID, but some of it just due to the good work that men and women do in Blue. But the other thing it has to do with our community, you know, how well we're doing.
 and responsive they are to just taking care of our community. The last thing you mentioned had to do with, what was the last thing? It was relating towards extra costs of closing, reopening, quality of life services and the effects on our already established budget. But that's...
 Okay, so I've said this before, and they're going to give you the details like Nicole mentioned, but what I've talked about before is if everything was funded at 100%, you would see a tax increase. I've said that several times. And I think what they're saying is when you add up the street costs, when you add up the public safety costs, when you add up the quality of life costs, and then layering into that,
 the opening of the new water park, the opening of the community centers, the opening of all these facilities that are now being constructed and completed in the 2012 package.
 then that's the hay that we have to buy for the horses. So that's the operational costs that come online. And that's what we're going to show you at the next meeting. And you will see an impact on that if you go at 100%. And I think if we go at it at a two- or three-year time frame, which that's what I'm leaning towards, come back and recommend to council a two- or three-year time frame. And, again, that's what we'll be kind of putting on the table. We'll hear from council as to, no, we want to be more aggressive or we want to be less aggressive.
 And I would caution or advise the council that we wanna layer into that the discussion about the health numbers and be responsible in how we grow the services back and put those back in line. And I only say that just to be, again, responsible to how we do open up our services because I know that several of you have talked about how other cities are opening up sooner rather than later like us.
 I went back to the numbers on when we did open. We were under 10% on the infection rate. We were under 15% on the hospitalization rate. And today we're hovering in the 12% infection rate and in the 20 plus rate on the hospitalization rate, which was much higher on both counts. And yet we're still opening up those same services that opened up back in the fall.
 as you all know and but it bears repeating we were number one in infection and that's not something we're proud of back in the fall not only for the united states but i think for for the world at one point so we
 So we have to be very cautious in terms of how we open back up. But I am listening. The staff is listening. We're listening in terms of how aggressive can we be without impacting public health. And so Dr. Okodante has looked at that. And so the recommendations we did make in the opening of the curbside and the zoo was with Dr. Okodante's recommendation. We would not open those services back up unless he recommended those. I hope I answered your questions.
 Yes, and I'm up to my time, so thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. And like we said about connecting the dots, it's going to be a very tough budget. And, you know, two weeks ago we talked about rental assistance that we're providing today. The water PSB announced that they're going to start turning off water.
 waters for people that are delinquent that have not set up a Paying-back program with them electric companies done the same thing and I'm sure the gas company will do the same So if we're looking at you know as we connect the dots I will not be able to support a tax increase due to the things we've been talking about so it's going to be a
 hard conversation a conversation that I know that that we'll have very respectfully but I Want to be upfront as we continue to talk about? The budget so and I and I thank you for your presentation, sir Yes, sir. So speaking about being upfront for you and the members of the council. I'd like to address a
 your comment by just simply saying that, as you know, we received $21 million from the federal government, of which we're setting aside $4 million of those dollars for utility assistance. The 17 million is gonna be used for rental assistance. So I just wanna make sure I remind all of you about that, that we did receive those dollars for that. We are asking the federal government for additional funds because the need is greater than that. And as the mayor pointed out, PSB is doing that, but they're doing it for their biggest account.
 and the most egregious, you know, I guess, folks that haven't paid, the most egregious ones on the list. So they're going with those first. So I just wanted you all to be aware so that you have the information so if you get called by your constituents, you have the right data in front of you. Yeah, and my point is not that where the money's coming from.
 we're giving these assistance to our community and our government is starting to come up with a new ppp To help businesses to stay open within our community So and those are the things i'm talking about not money that's coming out of our budget But but how the federal government's trying to help our community stay in operation So that that's uh, that was my point is the 900 billion dollar, um
 they're looking to pass or pass a $900 billion PPP program. And with that, I have Representative Hernandez followed by Mr. Schwarzman that I thought he said was out of time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. We talked a lot about vacancies within city departments
 So I'm more curious about the streets department. I would like to know if not today, maybe in a follow up work session meeting when we can get the street program back online and then when we can bring back not bring back but fill vacancies within the streets department because
 It is it is the number one issue we hear about every day. So I know I know that that's really a priority. And then the other the other item is you keep talking about the quality of life projects but we do have some that have just been recently built. And then so I'd like to understand
 Um, the rec centers, the combo centers that we just built, you know what the plans are for for bringing those back online. Um, granted, we do have the public, um, health department and our health authority gives us permission to, but in the event that the majority of our city is vaccinated in the event that we've curbed, uh,
 the virus as much as we can in our community, I'd like to kind of have a game plan with our constituents to talk about, hey, this will be funded in the new fiscal year if X. And so those are two of the questions that I'm getting posed about a lot. And so I would just try to just wanna re-emphasize that those are really important to my constituents and if we can start having those conversations again.
 so we are going to have that at the next meeting on the streets issues and with regard to community centers and the water parks and things of that nature that you're referencing the new the new items we are having that discussion internally and we we are working on bringing that back to council so that we can have that dialogue i think it's important to remember that with regard to the recommendations on the numbers and the vaccinations that you referenced
 As you know, we have 108,000 that we've had allocated to us, over 90,000 we put in people's arms. Under 25,000 have received the double vaccination. So we're way kind of way out there in terms of being able to say that we'll be able to vaccinate our folks by this summer. So I think that this current year we're in, we're looking at those phased-in approaches that we've already put in place with the curbside library and the zoo.
 Next year, we would be looking at, I've told staff to look at anywhere between 40 to 50 percent, or even if they have to go as low as 35. Let's say 35 to 50, 55 percent in terms of the first year, in terms of bringing things back online. And then the second year coming in at 65 to 75 percent. And then the third year coming in at 100 percent.
 So that's kind of what I've talked to staff about just so that y'all understand and hear what we're planning and what we're planning on bringing back. Again, that's being tempered by the health numbers.
 So it's not necessarily the financial numbers, although that plays a part, but we're kind of prognosticating what we think the health side of it's going to do and the fact that we might have to do these vaccinations annually. So we think a three-year phase-in makes a lot of sense, but we're going to be very open to hearing feedback from council. See if you want to come back more aggressively. Again, keeping in mind the health numbers and what those look like.
 So I just just a quick follow up to that Mr. Gonzalez you mentioned years. Did you mean phases or you're talking about actual fiscal years.
 I'm talking about the three phases over the next three budget years, yes. So like for example, the next budget year, which starts in September 1, 2021, and then it goes to 2022 of September 30th, that we would come in with a recommendation of anywhere between, and I've given staff this latitude, okay? They can come in, they might come in at 60%, but I've said come back and recommend anywhere between 35 to 55% that first year. But again, that's gonna be dependent upon
 That's going to be dependent upon the health numbers, especially this year.
 So that first year is going to be critical. So it might be, Representative Hernandez, that the second year we might go to 100%, given that, to your point, that the numbers of vaccines might be in a different place, right? But right now what I've told them to prepare is a two- to three-year, a three-year, rather, a three-year time frame on the phase-in, which would be three fiscal years. But again, that could vacillate based on the health numbers.
 Okay, right. And so the next presentation, you said you're going to talk about streets. Yeah. Okay, so because we're starting to get our funding...
 So like now's the time to plan for the funding that we're going to be collecting for this year. Right. And so and there's there's a ton of vacancies throughout the city. And so so my hope is that in our budget discussion at the next council meeting is we talk about how many vacancies that we have and then what the plan is for for the budget to bring to hire some of those vacancies so that we can start some of these street projects again. I'm not only streets.
 But within the street department, they do a lot of critical things, striping, cleaning, maintenance of our roadways. And so those are the things that I'm curious about because they're not quality of life, quote unquote. These are critical services that we can't just let go. These are essential workers.
 Yes, ma'am. You're exactly right. And I'm so glad you mentioned those vacant positions because the positions that are furloughed, as you all know, we have had three different iterations of bringing those folks back.
 We brought them back in three different iterations, and then we have, I believe, 77 left that have not been placed. And we're going to work to place those in a lot of the vacant positions that we have today. So we're going to be reaching out to them to attempt to place them in vacant positions that we have. I also think it's important for me to say this, and I'll ask the council for prayers. We have several people in the streets department.
 that have COVID right now. Some are senior people. So I hear you on let's get everybody lined back up. But I say this with all due respect to every one of you, that when I say we want to come back responsibly, I'm not just saying that just to have a talking point. I'm saying that because you have people in our organization who have COVID and are fighting it right now.
 And we have two senior people in streets right now that are fighting it. And those are just the people that I know of them because these numbers, they vacillate day to day. So yes, ma'am, we are going to be looking at those numbers. But I cannot stress enough, it's based on the health numbers. It's based on not only the numbers that the health department reports out on.
 but it's based on our internal organizational numbers. How many people have COVID? How many people are fighting it? And how we can stave that off. And we're doing everything right. I mean, we're having people distance. We're having them wear their masks. We're working on a policy right now, as a matter of fact, where everyone will have to wear a mask, that that will be a policy.
 They will have no choice. And right now, everybody's wearing a mask in our organization. And I know some people feel strongly about, you know, forcing people to do things. But the health issue, we have to make people have to make sure people are safe. And it's also going to turn into a workers' compensation issue. It's a workers' compensation issue that's being discussed nationwide.
 that's going to cost organizations lots of money. So we have to be responsible. And unfortunately, we may have to force people to do things from a health perspective that they may not be comfortable in doing, but we have no choice. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Mr. Gonzalez. And next I have Mr. Schwartzbein. Mayor, I can go until after everybody else has an opportunity to ask their questions since we're still in sort of the first round. You're it, sir.
 Okay, so I just wanted to be clear. So what is the increase we're looking at for fire and police compensation for the next fiscal year, roughly right now, based upon the presentation? Between those two departments, it's about $11 million. So we're looking at an $11 million increase for the next budget that we're going to have? For those two departments, for just police and fire departments.
 Okay. So even if we were to not raise taxes, we would have to figure out how to either cut or suspend $11 million from other departments to cover this increase. Correct. So those costs are being driven by the collective bargaining agreements, which Nicole pointed out. So in there, it clearly spells out what their percentage is as far as compensation increases, what they pay as far as health care. So those are non-negotiable. Those are contractual obligations that we have for those departments.
 But it goes back to there's costs associated with it, right? But that goes back to what Nicole referenced is if we want to be competitive, if we want to be able to retain and be able to recruit, which is what we're in the process of doing, right?
 This is what we need in order to be competitive, to be able to attract new officers to El Paso. And I want to also be clear, Mayor Pro Tem, that when we talk about that, we don't talk about it so that we point fingers and we say that's the fault of the budget going up. We point that out for what he just said about recruitment. The council has seen where we have a high attrition rate in the police department. I think that's primarily due to the fact that we have a lot of competition in El Paso. There's a lot of governmental agencies of which
 they can get their 20 years and go and retire and get a check and then go work somewhere else. We don't blame them. That's the reason we put the drop program in place. We've put different incentives in place for them. That's why we've been very aggressive in our collective bargaining agreement with them. So I just wanna make that clear so that when we point that out, what he mentioned about being competitive in the recruitment process, that's very important, not only in police but in fire, but the police is the one that sees a higher attrition rate than the fire does.
 Yeah, I just, I think it's just, I'm trying to understand, and again, for the benefit of the public, to understand what are some of those costs that are already going to sort of be baked in. So I don't know off the top of my head what it will cost to keep our libraries open for next year or our rec centers, but if we're talking about not having a tax increase for next year, we really need to understand, I think, what all those different options look like in terms of our budget and the kind of impact it would have.
 So I think that information would help to again would help the public and help this council make informed decisions Moving forward and I think we'll see that as the process starts moving forward and next week We'll have a little deeper dive into some of the other areas and from now till budget season I think mr. Gonzalez has stated and Nicola stated that it will continue to
 to give us that information to be able to make a decision. So thank you. And with that, we have no further questions. And I do wanna make sure that public safety continues to be our number one priority in our community. And that also includes COVID-19. So thank you. And with that, we move to the next item. Yes, Mayor, the next item is the introduction of ordinances. This is the first reading of ordinances. These are items 38 to 40. Move to approve.
 Second. Motion and a second. Any public comment? No, sir. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 38 to 40 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizarraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 41. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-0260 Modesto Gomez Park improvements to Martinez Brothers Contractors LLC. Motion to approve. Can we have a presentation on this? Yes, good evening Mayor and Council. Senator Lugia, City Engineer. If IT can bring up the presentation please.
 So what we're asking for today, Mayor and Council, is the approval of the construction contract to Martinez Brothers. A contract amount of 1.9 million dollars. The funding source is 1.4 million from Quality of Life as well as 536,000 from the capital plan, the 2020 capital plan that aligned the replacement of the sports field lighting in that park. Next slide. This is the location of the park. It's right next to Loop 375. Next slide.
 What's included in the scope of work is an installation of a 12-foot walking trail, picnic tables, trash receptacles. We're doing park benches, trees and raised planters, bedway stations, exercise stations, subgrade stabilization, as well as the rehabilitation of the sports fields. Next slide. This is the solicitation summary. We had a total of 109 viewers online. We did receive nine bids, eight from local suppliers. Next slide.
 This was a low bid procurement contract and we are recommending the award to Martinez Brothers. Next slide. Be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Sam, for your presentation. I'm very excited about this project. This is very, very wonderful news for my district and I'm just delighted. So thank you.
 Thank you. And I'm from the side, got back in the 70s, which was a few years ago. I played a lot of ball there where there was no fences and no grass out there or very little. So I got a question. Who's that? I'm sorry. Rep. Rivera, I don't want to place the phone. Rep. Rivera, if I can, please, sir. Go ahead, sir. Mr. Rodriguez, has this company done work for El Paso before or is it a first time or?
 Very lively. Representative Rivera, this is a contractor that's done a lot of work for the city. They have multiple contracts as we speak now. And they're a responsive contractor for us. Thank you. Reason being, it's just like the mayor said, it's pretty close to home. And that park is well-deserved of very vast and much-needed improvements. And I just want to make sure they get the best. Yes, sir.
 Thank you. With that, we have no further questions, but we did get a motion, but no second. Yeah, I second it, sir. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 41. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. I'm voting yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizada? Yes.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 42. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2020-036 Delta Drive Bridge Replacement to International Eagle Enterprises, Inc. Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 42. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. I'm voting yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez?
 Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? You're muted. Yes, sorry I'm having technical issues. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 45. This is discussion and action on a resolution adopting the 2019 City of El Paso Eastside Growth Management Plan and directing City Manager to create a cross-functional team to report recommendations to City Council regarding the implementation of the plan. Motion to approve? Second. Second. Motion and a second. Sir, is there a presentation? Who's this? Rep. Rivera. Oh, okay. I'm not getting your text message here, so.
 Yeah, I'm just still looking for my phone. No, um, I already asked if there was a presentation available. Okay, sure. Thank you. Thank you. If you can bring it up, it's item number 45. And Alex Hoffman will be doing the presentation. Yes. Good evening. Council Alex up with CID.
 So I can just go through the findings of the submaster plan and just remind council about some of the goals and objectives of this plan, as well as the creation of or the addition of the council members to the cross-functional team.
 So this was a project that was started a couple of years back that we've been spending the last several months doing a lot of public outreach and then also working to start developing some of the recommendations that you're going to see in this presentation. Next slide, please.
 And so the presentation overview, what we want to do is just to remind Council what the purpose of this study was, and then to go over what the existing development conditions are that exist within the study area and give an overview of the facility gap analysis that was found doing the different analyses by the consultant.
 and then go over the growth management strategies that are recommendations of this master plan and then finally go over the schedule. Next slide, please. And so in terms of what the overall goal of this plan was when the study was initially started,
 is to manage outward growth. And we do this by encouraging info development and then also looking at making sure that future development pays for itself. And that we look to balance the cost of service with the revenues that are generated by the development pattern. Next slide, please. And so as part of this particular project, which is the Eastside Master Plan, there's a lot of different deliverables.
 The one that's being discussed tonight is the Eastside Public Facilities Master Plan that's located in the center of this graphic. As part of the recommendations that we're going to have as a result of this study, we're going to be looking at the other hexagons that are noted here as recommendations for implementation of how to address the facility gap that's identified by the Facilities Master Plan. Next slide, please.
 And so the way that the public facilities master plan is laid out, and I, uh, did go over this previously, but this is just as a reminder that we have the demand analysis. That generates the facility needs. And then we did quite a bit of public outreach through our public and stakeholder outreach as well as our facility inventory and our public library.
 a study that was done as well as the public safety bond. Next slide, please. And so in terms of what we did in terms of analysis for the master plan, the boundary was identified here, which is George Dieter as the westernmost boundary. And then we did the study area boundary went east and so the city's ETJ, which is five miles east of the city limits,
 where we looked at doing a facility gap analysis. Next slide, please. And so as part of the facility gap analysis, these are the different facilities that were looked at. We looked at libraries, senior centers, fire stations, police stations, parks, recreation centers, and bicycle facilities. Next slide, please. And the way that we determined whether or not there were going to be facility needs was that we looked at the existing development conditions and then compared them to our service area metrics that we have.
 either through other master plans or through national standards. The key finding of the existing development conditions was that the majority of the Eastside Master Plan study area was primarily residential which creates a tremendous need for different facilities types that we have. But then in terms of tax revenue generation, they're some of the lowest tax revenue generating
 Uh, land uses. And so as a result, we have a high demand for different facility types, but not a lot of money to, uh, to operate and maintain those different facilities. Next slide, please. And so using the different service area metrics, what was found through the study is that within the study area, we have 16 different facilities. And that in terms of the facility gaps that we have, we have
 what would be nine facilities that we're missing and that we have already addressed the public safety facility types. And we're really looking at just needing to figure out how to address the quality of life facilities.
 and then we also have a significant gap in parkland which again comes from a parks master plan that uh developed the metric in terms of how much parkland is required per resident and that's the significant gap that we found in the parkland that's identified on the slide in the bottom right hand corner which identified 791 acres that are necessary for parkland that again we are making
 And addressing that through the Eastside Regional Park, but a significant gap. Next slide, please. And so as part of this study, what we also did was we looked at what would happen in the case that the city continues its outward growth, what types of challenges would that create? And so what we did was we looked at existing development patterns and figured out.
 What type of population growth would take place 15 to 20 years out. And what the study found was that right now we have about 195,000 people living within the study area and that the build out population would be an additional, you know, about 200,000 people, 350,000.
 with about more than 350,000 people living within the study area. And the key thing to note here is that when we talk about this population growth, as the city manager already noted previously, that population growth,
 within the city has really stagnated. And so we're talking about people moving from neighborhoods that are currently served by our different services to areas of the city that are not currently served. And so this population growth is not necessarily new population within the city. It's just people relocating from existing areas within city limits. Next slide, please.
 And so as a result of what the study found is that we have about $694 million worth of capital needs that exist within the study area, which does not include the E. T. J. This is just the city limits with the note here that police and fire have been addressed through the public safety bonds.
 And that in the instance that we would see that outward growth continue, that we'd be looking at an additional cost of $854 million with 14 additional facilities that would be necessary if we do nothing through changing different policies that we have in place currently on the books. Next slide, please.
 And so like I mentioned, the key findings of the study is that with public safety addressing the police and fire needs, we still have a nine facility deficit totaling more than $39.5 million. And that there's a shortfall of 791 acres of parkland with an estimated cost of $593 million. So again, if we don't do different changes and strengthen our city policies to ensure future development pays for itself,
 We're looking at a very substantial increase to different costs with the total necessary funding for the study area being about $854 million. And so as a result, there's really two ways that we can go. We can look at either making sure that future development pays for itself or we can, you know,
 Allow for the development patterns to just continue with that it has and a possible alternative there will be to adjust our service area boundaries and then reduce the level of service. Next slide please. And so what we want to do is we want to figure out what are the ways that we can address our facility and service gap. And so, as I mentioned, there's significant progress already underway.
 We've started addressing some of the gaps in service with public safety bond. And again, we've also made some headway with our parkland, Eastside Regional Park. But as I mentioned, there's more work that needs to be done in that we need to address various policies and code text to give staff the ability to address the problem on an administrative level. Next slide. So the different recommendations that are coming out of the Eastside Master Plan for consideration are,
 is making changes to different policies that we currently have. So first and foremost would be our waivers and exceptions that we find in our subdivision ordinance. This is what gives Development community the ability to waive different public improvements. Such as street lighting sidewalks, parkway street trees, those types of things.
 looking at our major thoroughfare plan, which looks at future roadway extensions and making sure that we have that connectivity to help address some of the concerns that constituents have about traffic congestion on the east side, looking at our annexation and landslide, making sure that we get public facilities to begin with. So that way we later down the road don't have to
 do a bond to help pay for these different facilities. Really looking to coordinate between the city and the county. It's something that right now we have different standards in the county, and so sometimes it creates confusion. And we really need to coordinate better to make sure our policies are aligning with one another. Also looking at the street design. And so one of the things that Sam talks about quite a bit is the need for additional funding for street maintenance. And so maybe by having different design standards for streets, we can help
 reduce that long term costs and maintenance by reducing some of the pavement width as an example. And then finally, looking at our traffic impact analysis. So right now our traffic impact
 When we look at the effect that development has on different areas of the city, we only consider the car. We know that we're really trying to push more of having a walkable community, having people use alternative means of transit. And so through making the changes to our TIA requirements, we can require different things like bicycle facilities and more pedestrian amenities. And then last, looking at updating our smart codes to make it more user-friendly, creating more opportunities for people to utilize that development code.
 Next slide, please. So what we're asking for today is acceptance of ESI master plan findings, which outline what the facility needs are, and then to direct staff to implement the recommended growth management strategies, which were the items that I just went over in the previous slide. Then also looking to have the addition of representatives from districts 3, 5, 6, and 7 to the ESI plan,
 policies cross-functional team that we currently have that's composed of different city staff. And that would be the requested action that we're looking to have council make today. Next slide, please. So in terms of what the cross-functional team's purpose, role, and outcomes are, we're looking to evaluate different policies, again, that were outlined on the slide of recommended policy changes related to growth management, land use, annexation, and transportation in alignment with our strategic plan.
 This would be to review, the role would be to review these different policies identified as deliverables of ESAP master plan, and then to provide recommendations to staff, and then also our different boards and commissions that make these recommendations to city council as a whole. And that the outcome would be that we would have new policies and code language aimed at addressing the city's outward growth that we're looking at some of these different issues that the master plan revealed. Next slide, please. And so just to give council,
 my back i think my internet just about that um and so in terms of the public outreach and coordination that was that was done uh we've been doing quite a bit of public outreach with just the community in general i've been at some of your your district meetings between 2019 and 2020 in districts three five six and seven we've also done outreach with the developers focus group that philip patua and his team and planning inspections have and
 at the beginning of or at the end of last month. I also briefed the Commissioner's Court on the 21st of January. And so what we wanna do again is we wanna include council, some of the council members in our cross-functional team that we use to address major community issues like our COVID cross-functional team,
 and that it would be composed of representatives from districts three, five, six, and seven to help guide some of these different policies and have end up discussions on some of these issues. And just to be clear that there will be presentations to council as a whole as a result of some of the conversations that take place during our cross-functional team so everyone will be on the same page in terms of what the policy recommendations are going to be. Next slide, please.
 And in terms of our adoption schedule, we started this process for implementation in January with the goal being that we want to have the implementation of these different strategies by September of this year. And then this also includes outreach with the public again with our different stakeholders, as well as our different boards and commissions. Next slide please. So then, as my last slide just again.
 highlighting what we're requesting the action of this item b which is acceptance of the east side master plan and then directing staff to begin the implementation process of the growth management strategies that are contained in the plan and that we're also looking to add through resolution representatives from districts three five six and seven to the east side policies cross-functional team and that concludes my presentation i'd be happy to answer any questions you have thank you great great presentation very informative
 and with that we have a motion in a second and mr hernandez first mr kaufman i just wanted to thank you for all the hard work i know you've been working really hard on this um for what seems like years um this is absolutely critical that we have these conversations the way that you've put this forward with the benchmarks with the timeline with the schedule i'm very excited to see an aggressive approach to this
 And so I'm very excited to work with my colleagues so that we can bring some impactful policies that's going to change the future of our development in the Far East side and throughout the entire city. So thank you for bringing this forward, and I urge my colleagues to support this as well. Thank you, Representative Nunn. And with that, I have Representative Salcido.
 Thank you Mayor. I would like to thank Dr. Noe my predecessor for starting the process on this master plan several years ago. I think he saw the issues that this study identified early as it developed and I'm happy that we will be able to start addressing them with a more comprehensive approach. I also want to commend all the city staff particularly Alex Hoffman who worked very hard to bring this master plan study to fruition and also consultant for their diligent work and analysis.
 It is very important to me that we grow responsibly as a city within well-defined standards and that we meet the needs of the people who live on the East side and in particular in my district.
 My office received a lot of complaints about traffic, and I think this plan can help to alleviate some of those concerns as well. Overall, I think the Eastside Growth Master Plan will help us to make sure that District 5 residents and other El Pasoans have access to services that they need, and I urge everybody to support this. Thank you so much, Mayor. Thank you very much, and you're right, Dr. Noh had a great passion for getting this project done,
 I know that when I walked in his office, he had the big maps and plans and everything all laid out. So he had a huge passion to have this. And I'm sure if he's watching today, he's very happy to the progress that we're at today. So congratulations. Good job. And with that, we have Representative Rivera. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Found it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Pretty much my colleagues said everything that we on the east side feel. And mostly thank you, Mr. Hoffman and staff for putting on a great. I know, like you said, you've been like a representative. I know you've been working hard at this. I've met with you several times. And so I really do thank you and staff and look forward to working with my colleagues as well. And ask my other colleagues to support it, too. Please. Thank you.
 Thank you Representative Varela. With that I have Representative. One more. Sorry. I'm sorry go ahead. Sorry Mayor. No go ahead. Same thing you know I really want to commend everybody that's worked on this project. I think it on this presentation I think that the implementation of the Eastside Master Plan is a really good and true guide to help the city grow and to address a lot of concerns that that we have and that my constituents have about.
 sprawl and those negative impacts that could come upon our community. So I think that, you know, making this this group, this class functional team to address some of those concerns more directly is a very good way to to move forward with this. So I also want to urge all my colleagues to vote in favor of this and yeah, that's it. Thank you.
 Thank you and you know as all the representatives from the east side talk and I'm so excited to see this great program. It's it's a great project for our whole community. So congratulations to our city representative shorts wine. He's sorry. Thank you. Mayor. I'm very excited about this about this document. I don't know. Somebody can mute themselves. There's.
 Okay, I'm very excited. I remember Dr. No bringing this up and the excitement that he had for it. And I first want to commend city staff, especially Alex Hoffman, who had a belated birthday. His birthday was yesterday. So again, happy birthday, Alex, on behalf of the City Council. But this is a really great, thorough document.
 that really points forward not just the east side, but our city as a whole. Many of the findings of this document point to not just issues of the east side and the challenges from unchecked growth, but also relate to the growth of our entire city and our land use strategies, especially on the fringes of our city. This document also points
 to the need to look at policy, as well as how to best activate and make the most of our infill opportunities as well. We need to be thinking about that as well as moving forward to help the mighty, mighty East side. And I'm looking forward to staff
 um continuing to return back to council as how we can best engage these findings to create sound policy for our community because this is just this is just much much bigger than just the east side and so very happy to support it very exciting about this path forward for this council for the east side for the west side the northeast the south and all parts of our beautiful community so thank you again thank you and with that um
 We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 45. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. I'd also like to thank Mr. Gonzalez as well and his staff. A definite yes. A proud yes. And Lizárraga.
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we go to call to the public? Please. Thank you for that. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge.
 The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act and public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks
 Against a person or a group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening we have three members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Jose Santiago. His topic is San Metro Cut.
 Two routes from Ranch Line area number 63 and number 65. Mr. Santiago, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Mr. Jose Santiago, star six, please, sir, to unmute your microphone. Good evening. You're on mute, sir. Good evening. Yes. Good evening. I'm talking about...
 the two bus routes, Hacienda and Loma Terrace, they've been merged and that's not fair to the people that live in our areas, which is the Ranchland Hills, Del Norte, and the Hacienda area. People have had to walk two miles to get from Community College to Lilac.
 I have a lady who is in her 60s. She had to walk all that from community college to her house and I don't think that's fair. They should bring back the Loma Terrace and the Hacienda buses back. Thank you, Mr. Santiago.
 Yes, yeah, that's what I was talking about. Telling them I have no bus passing right here on Giles. A lot of people used to catch a bus on Giles. Ascenda is farther down, two of them do numbers and they cut the two of them as one bus and I don't think that it's fair to the people. They need to have their bus routes back. What is your name again, sir? Jose Santiago. Thank you, Mr. Santiago.
 This is Reverend Vedda, we'll be calling you shortly. Yes, okay. Thank you, sir, for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Lee, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner's topic is public participation. Ms. Turner, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Good evening, ma'am. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Good evening, Ms. Turner. At your last meeting, a young man had called in, called the public and mentioned something about
 I was concerned about public participation. And that hit me hard because when I see people come up to the podium when we were in person, you would see members of council, including the mayor, get up and go out and take a break. That's disrespectful. What you do when you do that is you tell the people who took the time to come down that you don't care about what they have to say.
 I would ask that from now on, you are present during call to the public. If you have to take a break, take it at some other time. Because when you do that, you tell people you're a burden. I don't want to deal with you. I'm going to leave the room. The other thing is you're silent. You don't inquire of the person. You don't – I know there are limits to what you can and cannot say. So –
 There's nothing wrong with the mayor saying, asking the city rep of that person to get in touch with that person, find out what's going on, and carry on. The other thing is when we start and you say, this is an accommodation, we don't have to do it. What you're saying is don't bother us. Government only works when everybody is involved. And when you say, well, this is an accommodation, we don't have to let you speak directly.
 You're telling people, don't come. Don't come to your city council. Don't approach your city council. There was a time, folks, when an individual citizen put an item on the agenda, and it worked. And then all of a sudden, well, we can't do that because there's no backup. The lawyers have to look at it. There has to be some backup. So they just cut that out.
 And yet, till this day, there are still items that pop up on the agenda with no backup. And that's what you all do. We're not held to the same standard. The other thing was is all of a sudden people had five minutes to speak. And if there were 30 people signed up, you all would listen to 30 people. Council would listen. Now it's like, okay, we have 30 minutes. You can only talk for three minutes and talk.
 You used to, in the past, ask for a continuation and an increase in the time to speak, but they don't get it. And I can sit here and tell you that meeting after meeting, people who had gone up to the podium were able to talk as long as they wanted to, and there was a reason for that. They contributed to council members' campaigns and mayoral campaigns.
 So you have a double standard. You need to start looking at citizens as part of the team. Thank you, Mr. Turner. So when someone comes up to talk, you should be listening. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Have a great evening. The final speaker is Mr. Stephen Strummer. I do not see Mr. Strummer's phone number in the queue. I wanted to say hi to Mr. Strummer. It's been a long time. Yeah, it has. Oh, you did it.
 Mayor that concludes public comment. I do not see mr. Thank everyone who signed up for a public comment Miss Turner said it's important for public to the call in and I and I thank you run who took their time to call in And talk to us and with that. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? move to adjourn Second there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor aye anyone opposed
 And the City Council meeting for Tuesday, February 2nd, 2021 is adjourned at 5.56 p.m. Thank you, Council. Going to miss you all. Godspeed. We'll see you tomorrow. Good night. See you tomorrow after the show. Good night, everyone. Have a good evening. May it protect.