that aesthetics and the expense that it would take. Basically, we'd be criticized if we came through with a, you know, repainted and then tore it down within a couple of years. Well, but I think, how old is this painting? It predates me, my time at TxDOT. I don't know if we have anybody who's been with us longer who could mention when the last time we spruced that up was
 Well, just to give us an idea, how long have you been with TxDOT? I've been with TxDOT seven years. Seven years. So this is a little bit over seven years. I think if we say maybe 15 years, I think that's too long, maybe. But at the same time, you know, you're talking about being good stewards of taxpayer money, but I just think that when we have these types of projects, they need to be quality projects. They need to be able to last longer than 15 years.
 And I know that this area is hopefully soon going to see some changes to it. I would request that you all look at different types of aesthetics that can last with the pollution of the vehicles, the sun, we have harsh sun here in El Paso, and just kind of, you know,
 Give the taxpayers, give El Paso something to be proud of. You know, this is a very trafficked area. We have a lot of semis and people that travel through here that aren't from El Paso, that aren't from Texas, and this is what they're looking at.
 So I've gotten a note that it's been there for 10 years. And we are cognizant of paint fading and that type of... Like we're careful when we choose paint colors now because we are aware that not all colors look as good as they fade in our harsh southwest sun. But yeah, that is 10 years old. And I can't argue with you that you're...
 We typically do look for ways, as Mr. Trevino was pointing out, with form liners that are, you know, when we mold a design into the concrete, that tends to last a lot better.
 Okay, so I guess my final comment would just be, you know, for whatever the future may hold for this area of I-10, to consider something that lasts a little bit longer, to consider something that's more local. I think it's like Native American paintings. I don't know how accurate they are to our region here in El Paso. So I would just...
 suggest that you all do look at maybe some local artists and see how you know whatever you're doing can match up with whatever the city's doing because we're putting a lot of hard work to make our city look nice and like i said this area is where a lot of people travel through they're just passing through and this is what they're seeing and it's a lasting memory and it's not a good one
 Thank you. You allow me the opportunity to bring up the fact that we are putting together an aesthetics committee where we plan to work with the City of El Paso to make sure that both of our interests can align for an aesthetic plan for our community. I appreciate that. Thank you, Jennifer. Your points well paid. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nello. Yeah, I just wanted to... I'm sorry.
 I guess reinforce what Representative Schwartzbein brought up in the end. I think it's really disappointing that there was no communication with him on a project. Having been through a situation recently where it's a little bit opposite where a project was built without any communication with my office, I can understand the frustration, but I think that that project
 was vitally important for his community and for there not to be any communication is absolutely disrespectful. And I really do think at this point there needs to be a better communication strategy with TxDOT and the city representatives. And I really do look forward to hearing what that looks like from y'all because it's just...
 It's unacceptable at this point, Jennifer, really. I mean, for him to find out right now at this council meeting that y'all worked with another organization to stop a project that his community has been waiting for, I mean, even you have to understand where we're coming from at this point, right? And I think something really needs to be done about it. It really, really does at this point. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Nundas, followed by Representative Alcedo.
 hi good morning jennifer um long time no see thanks for always being available at our community meetings when we ask for you to be there um really informative progress uh orange cones always a sign of good progress for our community um just just a quick um heads up um i i was already messaging um our city engineer um letting them know that project that you have going on montana the city also has a project that we're going to be doing
 So my hope is that there could be some coordination in the near future. We're doing some landscape along Montana between airway and Hawkins. And so while y'all are doing that, it'd be great if we can be great stewards of taxpayer dollars and coordinate. And not only that, it's just like the timing when one project starts and another one starts and then so it's just traffic nightmare. But I did wanna ask you about what is, now that the city,
 is more responsible for state roadways within the city limits. What is the maintenance schedule for the major highways? So the border, I-10, 375 to 4. My assumption would be that maintenance would increase. So I'm just curious if you have a schedule or something that we can relay to our constituents.
 So it's my understanding that we do have maintenance on a regular rotation and those are usually, it depends on the type of maintenance. Are you talking about landscape maintenance? Are you talking about potholes? Are you talking about...
 Yeah, that is, you know, that's always an issue, and it's always an issue around windy season. So oftentimes people will reach out to me and say, hey, I'm looking at this underpass, and it's, you know, not looking so hot, or there's been a lot of trash accumulation. And so we can do.
 deploy our own crews to go out in kind of an emergency situation, but the rest of our highways are basically on a regular rotation of sweeping and that type of thing. But, you know, if you do see something that is
 And again, we get after it rains, we get a lot of requests for weed control. And then after windstorms, we get, you know, a lot of requests because trash accumulates. And it's not that it's coming from our highways. I mean, it's blowing in from, you know, trash day and from unsecured loads and things like that that happen. And we do do our best to keep up with it and...
 You know, it's tough to do that. We do spend all of our maintenance dollars that were allocated. That is spent every year to the maximum. So, you know, it is a challenge to keep up with it, but we do do our best. And again, you can always call, point out a location that needs immediate attention.
 and instead of one of our contractors, a lot of times it's our own staff maintenance crews that will go out. Do you know if with the regular rotation, is it like once a month, twice a month? Is it done weekly? I can get back to you with that information. No, that's fine. So what about the new expansion of the highway in Montana? Will that be under the purview of TxDOT to maintain?
 All controlled access high speed roadways are TxDOTs to maintain. Okay, well those were all my questions. And as we, at least for the city's portion of projects, because I know some of the projects aren't y'all's, these presentations are really important. And so thank you for sharing them. And I do understand the frustration from other members of council.
 And so it could be, it might be a good idea if we can just check in with you to see which which projects are in our district. Because I do have, you do have at least three in my district that are ongoing. But we communicate with you when we get, you know, concerns about litter or contractors or
 leaving their trash out and then during windy seasons, which is coming, spring is coming. So the wind will be here around the corner. That's the biggest complaint I get along Montana is contractors leaving their trash out. I don't think it's unintentional, like the wind takes it, but it ends up in constituents backyards. And so that's when we start to get the call. So do anticipate that those complaints will come in because they do come in really frequently.
 Okay, so that's something that I can reach out to the contractor in that case. If your constituents are telling you that there is trash blowing from our job site, that's something you can look to remedy. I also want to thank you for regularly inviting me to come to your community meetings. It's always a great opportunity, and I'm available to everyone for that.
 I've been to Representative Schwartz's I've been to Representative Anello's meetings once. But you always keep me on a regular rotation and for that I'm grateful. It's by demand. They request for you to come out every time because of course that highway expansion is really critical for our constituents in the east side.
 Again, we love to hear from the designers and consultants and contractors when sometimes you bring them. But so, you know, we're interested now in just hearing the progress and if there's any delays, because I know it's phased in. The artwork looks beautiful. I've been getting a lot of calls about the artwork along the freeway. It's the Mexican poppies.
 They look so beautiful. I mean, if y'all haven't been out there, take a drive down Montana 375, you'll be so impressed with the progress. But again, thank you all for your work. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Molinar followed by Mayor Pro Temp. Thank you very much, Mayor. Always a pleasure, Ms. Jennifer Wright. And from now on, I'll be in the right lane, okay? But anyway. Thank you. Yes, I do agree with Representative Hernandez's
 the aesthetics on Montana. The last time we did have that presentation, I mentioned the poppies, and I did drive down Montana, and they are a sight to see, but they also belong in District 4. So my question to you, you referenced the Borderland Expressway. I do attend those meetings on a monthly basis, and I see you there in those calls as well. I cannot...
 wait until this project gets started and um... it's just going to be really game changer for the city the county of el paso and the state of texas the more that we can do to advance this project the better for everyone
 INVOLVED AND I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR EVERYTHING YOU DO IN THE TEXTOT REGION HERE IN EL PASO. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER Thank you. NEW SPEAKER I'M SORRY, REPRESENTATIVE TALASIDO. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU, MAYOR, AND THANK YOU, JENNIFER, FOR YOUR PRESENTATION. I JUST HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS FOR YOU. YOU MENTIONED ABOUT THE BUDGET ABOUT LANDSCAPING. CERTAIN PROJECTS ONLY GET AN ALLOCATION? OR HOW DOES THAT WORK? NEW SPEAKER WELL, SO I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT THAT IT'S VERY EASY TO, YOU KNOW, BE A
 point out certain areas or anecdotal areas that are missing something. But you can see that systemically we have aesthetics included in virtually every project. The landscaping is a little bit tougher for the reasons that Tomas mentioned.
 We have certain categories of funding allocated and we can't necessarily spend that on landscaping. And then what we do have for the Green Ribbon funds is sort of something that you may see a project in your area,
 be built and then you won't see much landscaping but then that's something that we can come back in later and add to it so a little bit of it is maybe we could consider a little bit of a catch up that we're playing on on the any kind of landscaping but Systematically and I think we have plenty of evidence to show that systematically we do
 try to include aesthetics and landscaping on every project that we complete. And then I know you mentioned that the ones that you don't complete then you come later, do you allocate it to the same project or do you move those funds to another project? I'm not sure I totally understand but they, we distribute that funding as far as it will go to make the biggest impact where we can.
 Okay. It's different every year. I'm so sorry, go ahead. The need is different every year. I mean, every year it goes to various projects. And I did see on the, I guess the green ribbon projects and it's on your slide and I think I saw about, is there a certain amount that you allocate to budget for these projects? Is there a certain amount and how do we benchmark from other Texas cities?
 We receive $875,000 is what we've been receiving for over the last three years. So we have that much money that is allocated from the state budget to El Paso. And we are the largest allocation of the urban districts. As Tomas mentioned earlier, we get more than all the other urban districts get or each of the other urban districts get.
 That's that we get the highest amount You say El Paso gets the highest amount after it. Yes of the urban districts. There are metro districts There are five metro areas that have much greater population than our area But that's what we get for the we are an urban district and we get the highest amount of urban districts that's kind of
 and it's not on them it's it's a text.austin but that that's somewhat of a misleading characterization because the urban district we're larger than an urban district we've been asking to be a metro district our state delegation has worked on that and so
 the fact that we get if that is indeed the case that we get more as an urban district well we should be a metro district so i would tell you that we probably get the least amount of the metro district in terms of what our needs are yeah and i think just kind of listening to that i think that el paso needs to definitely get their fair share and i would request that we become or get on the list of the metro district not the urban one that we are currently in
 Those are my only comments for that, but I also wanted to touch base with you on slide, I believe it's slide 15. I see the I-10 widening east, east leg to horizon. I know that there's been conversations about widening Zaragoza in my district and so I just wanted to see what updates you all had for that going from four lanes to six lanes.
 So on up in your district, which is the northern portion of we have maxed out our right of way there. So any widening that we would be able to do would require quite the acquisition of additional right of way in order to do that. I don't believe that's in the MPO's 10-year plan at this point. So that is something that I think can be
 That need might be alleviated a little bit as we get more north-south links along in that area out in the county, which the county has been working on, where they're adding connectivity between Saragossa and...
 you know, other roadways that besides Joe Battle and Loop 375 in that area that can help facilitate connectivity so that not every single car has to be on Zaragoza from Loop 375 to Montana. They could have alternate routes that would add that connectivity. Raul is sending me something on the phone I can't read. Let me see. I'm sorry. He's got an answer there.
 I would see if he will text me that on a different device and I can read what he's telling me. I know that's been an important conversation in my district. I know that my office has been, we did have you in one of our meetings, but my office has been trying to set up a meeting with you since last year. So hopefully you can have some free time to come out and speak to the district. A lot of the concerns and a lot of them would want to request that Zaragoza would go from four to six lanes.
 and for you to share the challenges, the possible planning that we could do in order to get that done. And so I do want to extend again an invitation for you to come out and speak to the district and be able to share all this information with them.
 so i'm so happy to do that and i wouldn't be i have not received a message from your office yet right you're just that you're hoping to have me but you haven't invited me and i've declined that has not happened no no actually yeah my office had reached out for you at the end of the last year um because they just had a lot of questions in regards to saragossa and also the safety plan that um deployed in district five and so that's why i wanted to get you out there so you can explain and you know gonna give them feedback and if they had any questions for you so you
 So I will again reach out to you again so that we could get you and have you in one of my meetings. Please do, I'm unaware of a message that came through to me requesting me to appear. My email does have a number three in it after my name. So please, I'm happy to attend. Thank you, thank you, Jennifer. Thank you, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, I don't know if anybody else wants to speak, I know that, okay.
 Sounds good. Let me just put on my timer so I know. Thanks. So I have a number of questions relating to these projects. Number one, R-Craft is a very important project that hopefully will happen sooner than later. I'm getting fielding calls almost every other week, certainly every month, relating to when this project's going to start, ongoing issues about the blades and oversized
 cargo that goes through that area and then also when the public meetings are. So I have a couple questions. Number one is when are the public meetings going to start for R-Craft? And then number two is what jurisdiction control and communication are you having with the with the Sanitry Supportive Entry in terms of communicating to them about what times are appropriate to use R-Craft? Because when these blades are going through it's usually during rush hour in the morning.
 So we actually only issue those oversized permits for restricted hours. And if they're not going through, it becomes an enforcement issue. And so we have been exploring, like, how can we become aware and alert people to when somebody is –
 going through it's not the port of entry with whom we need to have these conversations we actually issue those permits for oversight loads and they are restricted to certain hours that are not rush hours so um so why is it so why is it that we see it can why is it that my constituents for the last seven years have been seeing these blades coming through during rush hour during times that people are taking their children to school and causing massive delays
 If y'all are the ones that are putting these permits out for a certain time. Well, we issue a permit, but if the carrier does not abide by them, we are not an enforcement agency. We would need to have the support of law enforcement to...
 catch them in the act. Has there been any communication from TxDOT with El Paso Police Department and other enforcement facilities relating to acceptable permitted hours for these to cross? Because to my recollection, I've not heard of any entity ticketing, or this is the first I've heard that y'all are even putting out permits for oversight. So is there any communication with PD relating to this? It's difficult for us to...
 discern, I mean, or dictate what would be the priorities for law enforcement. I believe we have, or at least I have asked that the conversation takes place. I'm not sure what has happened between the department issuing those and if there's anything that we can do with regards to that.
 So, Jennifer, just don't mean to interrupt, but just so that you know, we have been in communication with Captain Scales, with BPS about the permitted hours. So, you know, we have contacted them about illegal movements and carriers working outside their permitted hours. Again, it is an enforcement issue, much like you mentioned.
 And we have expressed our concerns to DPS concerning this. What was that alphabet group again? DPS, Department of Public Safety. Would, aside from DPS, but also El Paso Police Department be an enforceable agency for this as well? Yes, yes.
 Okay, perhaps we can schedule a meeting with some of these entities and city management to better understand. Generally, DPS has a weights and measures arm that handles oversized overweight permitting movements. Yeah. So that's of course important content. I'm pretty sure you could eyeball this and get a sense that it might be oversized. Just do you have that picture from Artcraft? Can we just, can we go back to that? I don't know what slide that was.
 slide slide 30 let me just express I really appreciate City IT for running the show for us thank you yeah so what hours are they not allowed what hours is your permit not allow these oversized cargo I'd have to go back and look at our permitted hours but generally we do allow them to move
 on the non-peak hours, generally weekends, Sunday mornings is always a good time, early Saturday mornings, and then non-peak hours. They do have some restrictions with the fact that they are moving oversized, overweight, as far as nighttime movements. So I'd have to go back and look at our permit restrictions on that and . If I can go back one slide to slide 30, that's the slide previous to that.
 oh it's 29 actually oh listen 30 on this presentation we have downloaded so okay so that is an oversized load right you wouldn't need to necessarily weigh that to get a sense that it blocking six lanes of traffic would be oversized yeah i never i never i never i never made an argument that it wasn't oversized that's just one of many different oversized overweight modes that we permit on our facilities so okay
 You know, those blades come in multiple sizes. So, yeah, I'm not making light of your issue. I'm not. I just, you know, this is a preserve that there's permits that were there. Enforcement is not on tax audits for others, and so I really think it's important that
 especially at the beginning of new year that we have a concerted effort towards dealing with this because it's something that's ongoing as you know that part of the city there's really a few areas to to to get to other parts of the city it's either through our craft or country club or you're taking mcnutt all the way to sunland park or other parts north so i really think it's important and hopefully we can schedule a meeting with relevant entities through city management to talk about that
 that. Really quick, because I'm already running out of time. When are the public meetings there? I know that there's a lot of concern with neighborhoods on R Craft along Upper Valley as well as Westside about current traffic noise and about anticipated traffic noise with the expansion of R Craft in this area. I know that if you look at the border highway,
 and 375 that there's sound editing walls that are along those residential neighborhoods and there's a lot of concern from residents about wanting to see something similar and when they can start their voice, when they can start going to these meetings. So curious to know today when those public meetings will begin for the RCRAP project. Checking to see if Raul has that. I know that we're looking for- So the public meetings for RCRAP will be in the fall of this year.
 Fall of 22? Yes, sir. Okay. Would love to know more about that as that goes along. Sure. Really quick, if we can go to slide 31, I suppose it is. It's slide 32 in our backup. This relates towards the frontage roads of downtown I-10. So yeah. And so those are renderings that are subject to change. Nope. You had it right, IT, to the left. Yes.
 So these currently look like they're the intersections by UTEP. Looking at also the ones to the far right is probably the intersection of Santa Fe, I believe. These I know are renderings, and renderings are subject to change. But what the rendering also sort of shows the philosophy and the guiding points for current design that's being expressed. Is this kind of where y'all are thinking this is going to go in terms of the frontage road design at this point?
 Well, we have, again, as you know, three alternatives with a fourth being the no-build. But, so this is just some rendering showing some of our alternatives. So, respectfully, I don't think that any of these renderings are at all sensitive or respectful to the urban environment in which this project is being proposed.
 We are not building this expansion of I-10 off of Eastlake, off of Artcraft.
 Even off of Ressler or Litrovino, this is in the heart of our city in a dense urban fabric. And none of these renderings go remotely close to showing a design that's appropriate or respectful towards a dense urban corridor. And so I'm not sure what additional steps can be had in terms of factoring in this. But the design for this...
 for this highway expansion project needs to be sensitive on the frontage roads towards the urban fabric, the urban context in which this road project is being proposed. And I'm curious about if you can add anything on that. So this is a preliminary rendering. It doesn't have any aesthetic features. We do have a committee, and I heard a representative earlier, we do have a committee set up to look at aesthetics for these areas.
 So it's a context sensitive committee and we'd be more than happy to have you all on these committees. Absolutely. I just want to be. Consider this an invitation if you haven't received one already. I'd love to do that. And I just want to be clear that my concerns with this is not about aesthetics. It's not about adding some trees, maybe some some boulders that, you know, look that function.
 function as bollards, I'm talking about the very design of the street that does not interact and integrate with the urban fabric. And so this is much more of a traffic engineer question that the frontage roads on this area cannot look and be the same width as a frontage road out on the outskirts. That it has to be sensitive to that. And again, if you look at the project in Clyde Warren Park, that's a clear example where their frontage roads have stoplights, have
 a 35 to 40, 45 mile per hour speed limit, have on street parking that's sensitive to the fact that this is in the middle of downtown Dallas, this is the middle of downtown El Paso, and the design of the frontage roads who really respect and reflect that. Thank you, Mayor Proctor. Again, this is just a preliminary rendering. Okay. We're still, and the preferred alternative has not been selected, so we are still in the process of incorporating some of these comments
 These renderings, even though you might not be able to see them, do have street lights, traffic signals on them. So we are not going to allow traffic to just flow through some of these front-of-road intersections without controlling their movement. So, again, you may not be able to see them, but they're in the renderings.
 But again, we are still in the process of selecting the preferred alternative. And even after the preferred alternative is selected, we still have quite a bit of detailing to do on some of the particulars as to what we're going to need as far as traffic calming devices we can use. I'd be remiss to say, though, that we're still in the process of selecting the preferred alternative. But again, we are still in the process of selecting the preferred alternative. And even after the preferred alternative is selected, we still have quite a bit of detailing
 These grunted roads will need to serve as an alternative route in the event that we have an incident on I-10. They will be used for incident management, and that's one of the reasons we need the project in particular.
 we can't restrict our lanes down to nine feet or ten feet as a calming traffic impact because uh we will not be able to use them for larger trucks in the event of an incident on the main lane so no we will incorporate as much as we can uh in the preferred alternative uh but again uh you know form follows function and the function of of this route is is to
 And I know that TxDOT has already shown a willingness with the Clyde Warren Park project to have a design in the middle of an urban center that's still able to function as a frontage road to deal with that traffic in the event of an accident and is still a sensitive urban context. And I do not see any reason why something similar cannot be done here, never mind the fact that we have spent $400 million on a bypass of I-10 with the border west expressway
 And I know that I have the rest of my time. I do want to follow up about Mesa and the catch-up work that can be done in terms of the landscaping that was removed during that project. But that will be our final question, too. Thank you, Mayor Potem. As we run time in, I'd like to get to MassCranchet.
 Was there a question there? Yeah, the question was, you had mentioned about doing catch-up work on other landscaping and other corridors, and I'm wondering what you're planning on doing in terms of the Mesa corridor, as well as completing, as well as the lighting, because there's large parts of Mesa that do not have their lighting up currently. So we're looking into...
 We're asking our electrical contractor to take a look at why those lights on Mesa are currently not functioning. That's something that is troubling to us as well, and so we are looking into that, why those lights aren't back on, whether it was something that the contractor did or something that just needs to be repaired. We're working on that. When you talk about other areas or landscaping that was removed that needs to be replaced,
 i'm not aware of landscaping that was removed on mesa through this project the last time i drove it i thought it looked pretty good all right well thank you thank you miss wright and i appreciate that we do have some people that are here for public comment mass transit we're running quite behind today but i thank you for your presentation uh mayor pro tem thank you for all your questions and everyone else and with that ms prime i'd like to go to my transit yes ma'am thank you
 Councilman, we have a motion to recess for mass transit. So moved. Second. Mayor, just really quick, about five minutes to public comment. I don't know if you want to listen to public comment before mass transit or . Do we have public comment on this item?
 so we'll start with public comment on mass transit okay we don't have public comments on mass transit oh we don't have to look like we have someone that's here to speak on the general that's fine the gentleman is here for are you mr chapado yes okay then we do we do have public comments on mass transit thank you very much so at this time council may we have a motion to recess
 There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular council meeting is in recess at 11 48 a.m. Good morning. This is a meeting of the Mass Transit Department Board for Tuesday, February 1st, 2022. Present in chambers are Board Chair Leaser and Board Members Schwarzbein, Molinar, Salcido,
 Rivera, Lizárraga, board member Hernández is joining us virtually today. It is 1148 a.m. We go to call to the public for mass transit. We have Mr. José Luis Chaparro who signed up to speak, and his topic is public expectation for return to Sun Metro Sunday bus service. Good morning, Mr. Chaparro. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The regular city council meeting is back in session at 1.03 p.m. We now go to call to the public. And the El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at heart. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance...
 are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during calls to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have nine members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. Ms. Sheck will be followed by Ron Colmu, Loretta Hyde, Barbara Valencia, Benjamin Alva, Bernadette Arenivas, Sabrina Soto, and Dr. K.
 Ms. Scheck, you're next, ma'am. Ms. Scheck's topic is Right or Wrong, Save America. Good afternoon, Ms. Scheck. You have three minutes. God bless every one of you and help us save America. I said last time I write a letter to the mail as I walked out because my feet get out. Every week it gets a little bit worse.
 So I got a little text exercise, and this is 23 minutes ahead of time, okay? And please, Mr. Rivera, give it to him. I want to see that he gets it. And I won't waste your time. It's all in here. And please, God bless America.
 thank you you can get away with everything thank you mr thank you mr the next speaker is mr ron follow by loretta hyde barbara valencia benjamin alva mr como's topic is concerned regarding animal services good afternoon sir we have three minutes good afternoon everyone good afternoon sir
 I'm here again, or should I say still at this point. I want to discuss some of the issues we have with our shelter. We have an issue with lack of employees. We're down 22% from what I understand, which includes ACAs, managers, VET, which we knew about for six months, and we still haven't corrected that issue.
 We have a major issue which I warned everybody about probably eight months ago. I said we needed to do an anonymous survey to find out what the problem was because we have a toxic work environment. A toxic work environment will cause people to not be happy and leave. We are at that point. We have unhappy employees that are leaving. We're going to lose more if we do not correct the issues. I've asked our director what his plan was. And he said, well, we're going to have to do it.
 This is not acceptable. It's time we get a plan in place and figure out what we did wrong and fix it. We need to stop moving people up into higher management because they're loyal and not qualified. That doesn't fix the problem with our employee problems at the shelter.
 So basically, we've already discussed the fact that the community is upset with the shelter. They're not doing what they used to do in 2019 to support the shelter. So this is kind of a summary. The community is not happy. The employees are not happy. The rescues are not happy. So who's happy? Who's doing anything to correct these issues with our shelter?
 our shelter is a disaster our city is in an emergency situation because of the strays we don't have the room to take care of the strays that were created by the haas program and the poor management of the last two directors now that being said we like i was saying the shelter's full everybody's full we have no plan on what we're going to do with all the strays that are in our city none which i did ask
 Like I said, we would. I try and work with our director. I got no answer. That's, again, not a plan. That is not acceptable. If we're going to correct this issue that was created by animal services with all the strays, all the mummies, all the puppies, we need to get these problems resolved. Coming up with the conversations of changing our foster plans doesn't correct our issue. Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. The next speaker will be Loretta Height.
 followed by barbara valencia benjamin alva this height's topic is concern of shelter at animal services good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes thank you good afternoon everyone as you all know i run a shelter for the last since 1995. we had a meeting at animal services this last wednesday and i went early just so i could see the facility itself and when i was there
 because my concerns were everybody was telling us that things weren't clean, you know, animals weren't being taken care of and so forth. So I did a walkthrough and I cannot tell you the stench that's down there, that there's piles of poop in every single cage and feces besides urine. But when they feed the dogs, they feed through a tube of PVC that the dogs stick their heads into
 And then the food falls out onto the ground into the feces and the urine. So that's not a healthy way to feed our animals. Plus, if I took care of my facility the way that animal service is being taken care of, they would shut me down for cruelty. It's sad. It's very frustrating when people come to the shelter and say, I won't go back to animal services because of how they were treated or because of the conditions.
 When I went through the parking lot in the back, there must have been 30, 40 cats running loose back there. And there's no means of them to go potty except for in the rocks or on the cement. When it rains or when it's ugly weather, it is so nasty to smell.
 We have to do something now. It's gonna get worse before it gets better. I also called, I do the PAWS program for the last 10 years of the jail. I called them this morning and asked them if they would be willing to let some of the trustees that are trained to clean and handle animals to go over there and help take care of some of the things that are going on. And apparently somebody had already made that phone call yesterday.
 which means that somebody's thinking ahead, which is great. But these guys need jobs. That's one of the reasons they're put into this position, to get a job when they get out of jail. But they're already trained in how to handle and how to clean a facility, which is great. I think that would be an excellent way to use our people there and let them do cleaning for the shelter itself so that these animals don't have to be put in this condition.
 These dogs are in little metal cages for months and there's no place to put them while you clean. So they have to be cleaned while the animals are still in the cages. I took two dogs the other night. One has a broken foot that they didn't know because the animal couldn't stand up to show you that it wasn't walking on that leg.
 So, and then I took another little dog that had a hole in its throat that hadn't been treated. It's being treated now. But these are little things that you don't get to see unless you go down there and look for yourself. So I recommend that everybody go down there and take a look and do a walkthrough like I did. You'll be amazed. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Barbara Valencia. Ms. Valencia submitted two slides. Ms. Valencia, as I explained, the third slide is inappropriate as this is not a forum for political, for personal attacks. Just that. You'll have three minutes. Thank you. I'm Barbara, and I'm with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. Okay, El Paso Animal Services, what the community is seeing and saying. With this first slide, this is what the community is seeing when they go to El Paso Animal Services.
 and while she puts that up i'll go ahead and tell you this is what the community is saying this person says i am saddened and angered while at animal services well at animal services okay i'm sorry this person says i am standing and angered while at animal services i saw animals with poop and pee everywhere it's dirty everywhere majority of dogs and puppies sick it's crazy it's a horrible place
 The next person said, I stopped by Animal Services to drop off some paperwork. When I opened my car door in the parking lot, I was hit with an awful stench. As I got closer to the building, the stench was overwhelming. Once inside the building, the stench was so horrendous, it took all of my strength not to puke in the lobby.
 This person said, new intake puppies are being put in kennels and crates that had been housing parvo puppies moments before. No cleaner and sanitizing of these kennels and crates. When I addressed the staff about this, they laughed and said, they're all going to die anyway, so no need to clean and sanitize.
 And then there was this person. In all my years of going to animal services, this is the absolute worst animal services has ever been. It's like being in the depths of hell. I sat in my car and cried for all the innocent animals that are being forced to suffer inside this place. Now with slide two, when this gets moved. Now, under picture one, this is what was said. Housing unaltered male and female dogs in the same kennel, thus allowing them to mate, is not only morally repugnant, it's against state law.
 Under picture two, this is what this person said. How can we in the community expect animal services to protect the animals in our community when they have a long history of breaking state law and committing atrocities within the shelter? They absolutely have no respect for the lives of the animals. They have failed to house dogs in kennels by size as required by law. Housing puppies and small dogs with large dogs in the same kennel has resulted in the puppies and smaller dogs being mauled to death. And then this is what was said with picture number three.
 Staff leaving dogs on leads unattended. The lead is caught up on one of the self-feeders and the dog is strangling itself. But animal services will claim the dog committed suicide. So, the animals in our community have suffered enough. It's time to bring in an experienced and compassionate director to get us and the animals out of this huge mess we have been put into through no fault of our own. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Benjamin Alba.
 He will be followed by Bernadette Arenivas, Sabrina Soto, Michael Castro, Colt DeMores. Mr. Alba's topic is animal services and critters in El Paso. Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon, everyone. I've been TNRing trap meter and return for over 12 years here in El Paso. The way that it used to work is we would set up an appointment through animal services or with animal services, we would trap the animals,
 and send them over to animal services it's not working that way anymore they don't do it that way anymore and it's very unfortunate because what's happening now is can take the animal the cat down there to animal services however they no longer allow us to pick it up and release it back to its community
 That's what we would like to keep on doing. And the reason why I think it's very important that we do it the way that we used to, which is track the animals and then sending over to animal services and then picking it up ourselves, is because the animal control won't have to pick or send the animals to catch back to their community. It'll save time and we can do it ourselves. It's not gonna cost you guys any money.
 So this is one of the problems that we've been having with animal services as well as when a lot of us trap a cat or a dog, what's been happening is that we get sent back. We have five puppies in a box, five kittens in a box, and they tell us, well, we can do one of two things. You can wait three to four hours or you can take the animal back. We can't do that. We cannot wait three to four hours.
 So what's happening, in essence what's happening is that a lot of people are taking the animals to animal services. They tell us to leave or they tell us to wait three to four hours. We can't. So we have to go back and release the animal to the community. It would be a win-win situation if animal services was...
 handle it in a more appropriate way. Win-win situation because then people who are coming from not just El Paso, not just Texas, but everywhere in the United States and the country will no longer say, well, you know what? Go to El Paso, you're going to find yourself a bunch of kittens, a bunch of dogs out loose out there. It's horrible, you know? And it's a thing where they get complaints all the time, animal services does. They can leave
 kitty cats in kennels where they can get hurt they can get injured they can get killed and it's an awful thing to see that so basically there are very poor conditions at animal services i've been doing this for 12 years and it's just it was welded 2000 it was pretty good in 2019 and all of a sudden no covet hit
 I don't understand why they had to close down animal services due to COVID because the veterinarians were open, the rescues were open, and so were the dog meat. Thank you, Mr. Alva. Thank you, sir. You've reached the limit. Thank you. Three minutes? Thank you. The next speaker is Bernadette Arenivas. Bernadette Arenivas. I don't see her in person or in the queue. We'll move on to Sabrina Soto.
 Ms. Soto, star six to unmute your telephone. Ms. Soto's topic is denying El Paso Police Department's current funding request for cannabis prosecution. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, city council.
 Since my first time calling in August to now, in these meetings I have heard many, many El Pasoans asking for your help, telling you that there are programs severely underfunded, which I'm sure you all are aware of. So for the police department asking for additional funding on top of their initial request that was prior approved isn't fair. The cannabis community here in El Paso has given you many reasons on why we don't think this funding should be approved.
 we would be moving backwards instead of forward. For over two years, the cannabis community has presented you with tons of information on cannabis and how we should be working towards decriminalizing cannabis, not continuing to arrest, prosecute, giving us criminal records, and wasting taxpayer dollars. Again, this is only going to do more harm than good to the community of El Paso. I strongly suggest this funding be denied. Thank you, City Council. Have a good day.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Michael Castro. Mr. Castro, good afternoon. You have three minutes. Mr. Castro, star six please to unmute your telephone. Mr. Castro, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, City Council. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. So good afternoon, City Council. I would like to address the Council. I would really like to personally know what we plan to do with the recreational sales
 of legal cannabis going, or the legal sales of recreational cannabis sales happening right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. Sorry, I have to catch my breath a little bit. I'm out here on the farm. We're running around, a lot of work to do. So let me gather my thoughts real quick. But again, city council. So cannabis is legal. It's right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. It's right here in Chaparral, New Mexico. There's going to be multiple dispensaries
 What does the city council plan to do to either keep cannabis out of the city, right, which we've been trying for years to do that, and I'm sure the El Paso Police Department can, you know, agree to that, that it's pretty impossible to keep cannabis out of the city, let alone any drug out of the city. Now, with cannabis now being legal, that means that people from El Paso, 21 years of age and older, are not only going to be able to go purchase cannabis in New Mexico, but they're also going to be able to work in the industry now.
 for the past nine years i've been working in the cannabis industry for several years i worked in the colorado cannabis industry and made a very good paycheck every two weeks for the past two years i've been working in the sunland park new mexico medical cannabis industry i've been making a very good paycheck every single two weeks for the past two years i get paid to sell cannabis i get paid to be educated about cannabis there are many people in this city who want the same thing for them right this is a career guys
 We have to understand that it is people like me, the farmers, it is people like Colt DeMorris, the people who are informed about the medicine, the people who have experienced the benefits of this medicine. We are the people saving lives, whether you choose to believe it or not, whether you choose to get the education or not. This is what is happening in today's world. There's information all over the place. City Council, this is the medicine. This is a right that everyone has to grow plants.
 There's nothing wrong about cannabis, whether you disagree with me, whether you agree with me. The education is out there for the past two and a half years. I've been telling you guys the same thing. I will continue the South City Council the same thing. We need to do something to help the people in the city.
 Now, if it's a set of roadblocks on every single in and out way of the city, right, from New Mexico to Sunland Park, is that what the El Paso Police Department and the City Council is ready to do? Are you guys ready to waste money on checkpoints, on looking for people, on going after this plant so hard because this plant is about to be widely available? So if it's going to be widely available, meaning it's going to be here in the city. Thank you, Mr. Castro. You better go after it, Mark. Thank you.
 Thank you guys. Thank you City Council. Y'all have a lovely day. Bye-bye.
 I come to you here today on the sixth anniversary of my wife passing. I lost her to not cancer, but the repercussions that radiation did to her and ultimately took her out. I fight for the patient. Six and a half, seven years ago, I was having marijuana oil mailed to me through the mail, the United Postal Service. I didn't care about the law. All I cared about was my wife.
 We're 60 days out. We've preached to you about Delta 8, Delta THCO, I believe. What's technically legal is Delta 9 THC, and I just want to let you know that that's being sold in head shops right now. So the funding that you guys passed, whenever it was, is now going to be used to test legal products sold at smoke shops.
 We now have hemp-derived Delta 9 edibles, vape pens, stuff like that being sold in head shops today. I wanted to bring you an edible that I purchased at Buena Vida in Sunland Park Mall in El Paso. It's 300 milligrams of Delta 9 THC. Delta 9 THC is the same THC that I dispense at the dispensary that I manage.
 The only difference, one comes from hemp, under 3% THC per the plant, and the other one comes from high THC cannabis. Same thing, same compound. So when you guys, Pat, now I can take a piece of this edible, what I saw, what I had was a Rice Krispie Treat, 300 milligrams, really big because legally under the Farm Bill and under the Federal Farm Bill, it has to be less than 3% of the weight of the dry product.
 So now I can take half of this legally purchased edible that I got in Southern Park Mall here in El Paso, give it to a friend, and if they are pulled over, they will be arrested. Offer something legal. We're back to this whole thing, whole confusing thing. It's time to instruct the police department to stop arresting for misdemeanor marijuana offenses.
 You know, the last couple times that I've been here, we've always heard about this department being underfunded, this department being underfunded, this debt being, I can't think of the word, but reissued. I mean, stop spending the money frivolously. That's all I ask. Stop arresting people for marijuana. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Azeeda? Yes, sir.
 do we have any other public comments that concludes call to the public this afternoon mayor mr rosetta will you come up please i thank you for for being here i know um
 some of the council members have asked that you uh council thank you for the opportunity interim director for el paso animal services i want to take this opportunity to reiterate just what is happening in el paso animal services the first speaker was correct and we told you immediately that there is some staffing challenges just like there is in any organization but the one thing i want to clarify is that our priority remains animal care cleanliness
 So even though we're short staffed, we're shifting a lot of staff to address that animal care. Each kennel area is disinfected each and every day with a solution called Rescue. It's the shelter best practice solution that kills carbo and distemper and prevents a lot of other nasty illnesses as well. But that's not the only cleaning that happens that day. In addition to that, there is spot cleaning that takes on at least three times per day per housing unit. When you deal with animals,
 You definitely could schedule all you want, but there will be feces, and it's our job to continue to check in on those kennels to pick that up. Another thing I want to clarify in terms of staffing, again, the speaker mentioned that there's conversations with the sheriff's office. That is correct. I had that conversation with Sheriff Wells' office yesterday in trying to get some of the inmates incorporated into our operations to assist with that animal care and cleaning.
 That's our way of not just sitting back and being proactive to address a lot of our needs at the shelter. Employees definitely is going to be a challenge just like anyone with the pandemic. So we're trying to empower our employees to grow their abilities. If they're involved in shelter operations, we'll want to assist in adoptions. We are definitely cross-training our employees, but most importantly, we're making sure that animal care comes first. There is a lot of adjustments to the programs.
 Mr. Alva up here addressed that there was a wait period in taking an animal. What I am doing is I am shifting staff to address the animal care, animal health cleaning portion. Once that staff is completed for the day, then we go ahead and add that extra staff to the intake process. A lot of shelters have closed their doors, have minimized hours. Our goal at Animal Services was one of the first departments to open our doors again and continue intake.
 Intake happens in the field through our officers. Just last year we had nearly 17,000 animals that came into the facility. Our goal is of course public health and safety, but our goal is also to give every one of these pets a chance at life. Whether it's going all the way up to Canada to find them a home, whether it's trying to microchip every pet we can for free in this community, our goal and commitment is to serve these pets through the challenges of the pandemic. We're being creative.
 adding about to add on in terms of our our Vet opportunities there is a shortage nationwide But what we are doing is we're bringing in vets from other communities There will be a news release later this week where we will be announcing that we have three relief veterinarians coming in from communities as far as Kansas City and
 Austin and the Waco area to come in and do spay-neuter surgeries for us to help us navigate these challenges that we're having with our vet services. We're going above and beyond. We're committed to serving the animals not only in the shelter but in the community as well. And I just want to clarify that health and safety is going to be always our main priority and getting through these challenges is always going to be our goal to do best by our pets and to do best by our community. I do welcome every single one of you to visit us at the shelter.
 If you ever want to host a community meeting at the shelter, I will be more than excited to have you and your constituents show up at the shelter. We could schedule a time to do a tour of the shelter as well. Thank you all. Thank you. I got a question. Last year you took in 17,000 animals. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 that's uh quite a bit less than your normal number what's your what's your average number prior to that in 2020 uh we took in just over 12 000 animals 2021 prior to yes but i know that the number prior to that was a lot higher 26 000 sir okay that's what i'm saying yeah because 17 sounds a lot but it's a lot less than we normally
 are used to taking. I just wanna make sure we clarify that. Yes, that is definitely a lot less than 2019, but our goal too is also to provide proactive services at the . No, I understand. I just wanna make sure we clarify that number because it's a big number, but it's a lot less than we normally been taking. Anyone, Mayor Pro Temp? No, Mayor, I'm good. Thank you again, Ramon, for the work. It's important that we continue to, I think, really elevate and communicate and show what we're doing and all that we're doing there as well.
 Thank you. I know what we are. Thank you. And I know that we have challenges, and I know that we have a lot of concerns. And, you know, I tell people that a challenge is an opportunity to make some corrections and some things. And maybe a challenge is something that there's a misunderstanding that we can talk to the community. So I appreciate that.
 and i look forward to and i'm going to go out there and i'm going to walk around and i'm going to call and maybe go out there with them and kind of have a um you know because uh i know that you're doing the best you can i know you work hard every day and i've known you since i was in office last time so i appreciate your your your hard work and service to the community and i look forward to working with you you're not on here so i'm sorry yes ma'am thank you for the update and i want to
 i think you said it right there are some challenges there have been some challenges um staff has recognized that this council has recognized it and i just i want to let all the people know um who have constantly expressed their issues you know out of the good of caring for the animals that we do have the item on the next asac meeting to talk about the new kettles that this council approved funding for i haven't seen it yet i'm excited to see what the plan is um but just so those who have shared concern about kennel capacity they can tune into the meeting and that information will be there for them
 So thank you for everything, Ramon. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you for being here. I appreciate that. Mayor, would you like to recess this meeting to return to mass transit or continue on this meeting? I think we ought to finish mass transit. Yes, sir. May we have a motion to recess the regular city council meeting? There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Yes. The regular city council meeting is in recess at 1.34 p.m.
 may we have a motion to reconvene the mass transit department board meeting 13 all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting is back in session at 1 58 p.m are on page number 10 item number 36 this is discussion in action on a resolution approving the removal of christian honsaker from the board of directors of the el paso housing finance corporation
 There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Molina to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. The voting session is open. Council and should be functional. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Rodríguez? Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Añelo not present. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next item is number 37 and this is an operational focus update with an update on the site and release program. Good afternoon, it's Assistant Chief Zilva with the El Paso Police Department. Can you see my screen? Yes. Great. I'll go through this update pretty quickly as you've seen it before. This is for the site and release program for the last quarter. City Council signed a resolution back in May of 2020. We're almost at the two-year mark.
 And we are required by council to come forward every quarter and present you with a report. And the report has to include the reason for the stop or the arrest, the reason for the discretionary use of the arrest, the race and ethnicity of the person, and the general location of the incident.
 The purpose of the site and release program is to release offenders from custodial arrest in an efficient manner only for the possession of marijuana cases A and B misdemeanors only. A class B misdemeanor is two ounces or less and a class A is four ounces or less but a little bit more than two ounces.
 To be eligible for the program, you have to be an adult. An adult is considered 17 years of age or older. You have to be detained for possession of marijuana class A or B misdemeanor, for which the officer would have probable cause to make an arrest. We have to have sufficient identifying information at the time of detention. You must reside in the county of El Paso, and there has to be reasonable belief that the offender will appear in court.
 This is what the cite and release citation looks like. It's very similar to a regular citation you may get for no license or no insurance. To be ineligible for the program, some of the reasons are listed here. If we have confirmed that you are a gang member, if there was use of force during the incident, if you are an uncooperative individual or you choose not to participate in the program,
 a habitual offender who has had three or more misdemeanors and or felonies already listed, if you have outstanding warrants at the time of the incident, if you are intoxicated or under the influence, or if you have other charges. For the last quarter from September to November 2021, there were 167 total possession of marijuana cases. Of those, 16 were accepted into the program for a total of 10%.
 And here's the breakout. The reason for the stop in 68% of all cases is self-initiated by the police officer. So the officer determined their own probable cause to make a stop, followed by dispatch calls for service, and then in October there were three search warrants executed. There were 16 accepted cases. For the 16 accepted cases, the reason for the stop in 94% of cases was that it was self-initiated by the officer.
 the other call was a dispatch calls for service. Again, in most cases, the reason why they are ineligible for the program is because they had other charges at the time of the incident. In September, 67% of the time, they had other charges. In October, 62% of the time, there were other charges. In November, 79% of the time, there were other charges. So throughout the quarter, 69% of the time of the 167 cases,
 That was the reason why they were ineligible to be entered into the program. We also looked at where the incidents occurred. The El Paso Police Department is broken up into five regional commands currently, and Pebble Hills had the most defendants at 28%, followed by Central, Mission Valley, Westside, and then the Northeast. This is for all 167 cases. We also break down by the race or ethnicity of the person.
 In red represent Hispanic, white is represented by yellow, and black population is represented by the light green. When we look at the defendants for the cases that are accepted, the regional commands change, the west side being the highest at 38%, followed by Mission Valley, Central, and Northeastern Pebble Hills are tied. On the right side of your screen, you'll see the race or ethnicity of the person involved. We also looked at it by zip code,
 So if you're familiar with the zip codes, this is how the events are lined up. And at the bottom of the screen, you'll see the race or ethnicity. This is only for the 16 accepted cases. And then we broke it out by what is most common for you by your city rep districts. As you can see for all defendants, all 167 cases, the predominant is District 7 followed by District 8.
 When we break it out into only the 16 accepted cases, it changes to District 1 followed by District 7, and to the right is the race or ethnicity of the defendants. We also looked at it by age group. For all cases, the primary age group is going to be 17 to 21 at 35%, followed by 22 to 26, and so forth. This is for all 167 cases.
 The 16 cases that are accepted into the program, the predominant age group is between 17 and 26. And then to the right is the race or ethnicity. This is from the beginning of the program to November. There were a total of 1,113 total possession of marijuana cases, with 17% of the cases, or 187, being accepted into the program. And we broke it out by month.
 And then finally, we did work with the county attorney, number seven, to see if we could close the gap and find out how these defendants are going through the entire process. So I already gave you the information on the law enforcement side. Once these cases are transferred over to the county attorney, what we found is...
 As of November 19th, they had 182 of our 187 cases. Of those, 61% had participated and paid the administrative fine for the program.
 And then an additional 16% appeared, but they still haven't completed the full process of the program. So fully 77% have participated in the program at some level. So I think that's a good indicator that we have a majority of the people that have entered into the program completing the process. And this is just a copy of the report that we've already sent to you, that we send to you every quarter.
 And I've already gone over to you the site and release program steps for the El Paso Police Department. And that concludes the presentation. Thank you for the presentation, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Chief. Great report. Broke it down as was requested. All the information is there and all the officers' hard work and
 professionalism is in place thank you very much for that I could just wanted to thank you for that report and you did a great job thank you okay well thank you all for your time there's no other questions thank you you're welcome bye bye the next item is number 38 and this is a budget update council one more time I'll remind you not to please do not engage in side conversations or use electronic devices other than your
 computers at the day of the day. Good afternoon, Marin Council. This is Nicole Cody. Today's budget update, we will be doing a recap of our FY 2022 budget.
 and discuss the priorities, cost drivers, and fixed costs that we see and we're planning for in our five-year financial forecast as we look ahead at our FY 2023. So we continue to look at and fund those priorities as the City Council and our community, of course, and also look at ensuring that we're including those operating costs from this capital project that we anticipate to be completed.
 We continue to look at our workforce and those investments that we're making in our workforce to help us address budgetary pressures that we're seeing, which include both inflation, the labor market, as well as property tax cap that we have from Senate Bill No. 2.
 As we look also ahead, we want to make sure that we're minimizing the impact on our tax rate and looking at tax relief for our disabled and seniors. We do have two corrective bargaining agreements coming up, one in this fiscal year, FY2023, and FY2024 for the police department.
 We continue to look at being able to find additional officers, not only as part of the 300 officer initiative, but also the firefighters from the command stations and the firefighters from the fire stations and also the additional new police command stations.
 We also have, of course, the continued quality of life bond projects, and we'll discuss those as well as the operating costs for those remaining projects. And as I stated before, the workforce investments, the continued investment in our compensation increases and health care for our employees.
 And we'll also briefly discuss the debt that we have to issue for those remaining capital projects. So here is part of the adopted FY 2022 budget. You'll see the three major areas of investment. And we've discussed this before as part of the FY 2022 budget and other also in other budget updates. So you'll see again public safety, of course, is a priority with the majority of the increase for our FY 2022 budget.
 And then we're next in infrastructure, which included our residential streets, resurfacing, and quality of life, for a total increase of $34.2 million.
 So you've seen this slide before, but it's an important slide that really illustrates the priority of public safety for this council and for this community. We continue to expand our public safety investment, as you'll see, since 2015 with a $70 million increase in both the police and fire budgets, or a total of 32% increase.
 You can see our public safety staffing plan as well as the crisis intervention team and the additional 911 communicators that we added as part of this year's budget. We continue to support the fleet capital replacement plan for public safety with this year's amount being at $7.8 million for both the fleet and capital replacement for TV and fire.
 In addition to that, we have issued $167.3 million in bonds as part of the 2019 Public Safety Bond Election. So how does that impact our upcoming FY2023? As I mentioned in the previous slide, if we look ahead, the collective bargaining agreements are an important component of that.
 Not only that, of course, is the increase in staffing that we've discussed at previous budget updates to include the number of academies as well as the academies that they need for the 9-1-1 communicators that Chief DiAgostino brought up at the last City Council meeting regarding their efforts to be able to recruit and retain a 9-1-1 communicator.
 And again, we would be remiss in not mentioning our public safety capital equipment, ensuring that we have the funds needed to replace the capital in a timely manner, and that funding set aside is part of our general fund. In addition, we look at the public safety bond operation impacts, and we do have Fire Station 36 coming up. So we'll be needing to include the operating impact of those additional staff members.
 In addition to public safety, we do have a payroll of streets. We've restored the set-aside funds as part of the FY 2022 budget of this current year. And you'll see included in that was the residential street resurfacing project, our ongoing funding for the collective street resurfacing, as well as the new traffic safety program, Vision Zero, at $1.8 million.
 We funded, as part of this budget, the $500,000 for the ABA on-demand request project and $250,000 for the MT&P or our neighborhood traffic management funds.
 As we look at 2023, of course, we want to continue these initiatives that we started as part of this current budget, including both the residential and collective street use licensing projects, our continued funding and support of Vision Zero, along with the ADA on-demand request, and a very important neighborhood traffic management plan.
 The next priority we have, of course, is really our quality of life department. And as part of 2022, or the current budget year, we restored funding for our senior centers, our libraries, our recreation centers, our community centers, and our pools. Included in this funding, we also were able to start a new automated irrigation pilot project for water conservation efforts at various parts across our city. We also restored funding for Winnifest, as well as Hatton Hemp,
 maintenance bar sports complexes that will be coming up this spring.
 So as we look ahead for next year as part of FY2023, we want to ensure that we continue the quality of life services as well as the operating costs of the completion of major bond projects. So while we have 13 major bond projects, it's important to note that we do have the Children's Museum is projected to be completed at the end of 2023 calendar year and the Mexican American Cultural Center will be completed at the end of 2024.
 And then the much awaited penguins exhibit will also be completed at the end of 2023 or the beginning of 2024, around that time period that we return. So some of those operating costs will be built into 2023, and they need to be able to hire the staff that will be assisting with the completion of the projects that are getting ready to open.
 So in addition to that, we would also make sure that we continue to fund and support complex and the facility maintenance that's required at our parks, as well as evaluation and thorough review of the automated irrigation pilot project we propose to bring forward, and hopefully an expanded winter fest funding as well. As part of this current budget,
 We did see a minimum increase of at least 1.5% compensation increase, as well as we implemented internal equity adjustments that were effective this September as part of this budget. Our employees did not see a health care increase, and we continue to fund our Shape It Up wellness program, as well as the funding for our health savings account of $500,000 to $1,000.
 So as we look at FY 2023 or the next budget year, we continue to evaluate what is the compensation increases need to be for our employees as well as any new and current incentives. We are evaluating as part of the five-year financial forecast and also as part of FY23 the city's health care costs as we continue to see increases in health care and make sure since we are self-insured health
 program that we ensure that we're able to maintain and sustain the health care for our employees. We continue to look at funding for Shape It Up as well as the funding for our health savings account.
 So here I'm going to pause and really let's take a look at our capital project financing. So as I mentioned, it's important to look ahead to see where we're at, what still remains as outstanding debt. And so we have approximately $407.1 million remaining in debt to be issued for approved capital projects.
 The remaining issuance will begin over the next several years, and as you can see in this graph, the impact on the debt service property tax rate. And so where we're anticipating on going from 0.286 to about 0.296.
 or initially a one penny increase. That is, we would maintain the tax rate at the current rate, that one penny, of course, would have to come from our operation and maintenance portion. It's important to note that this initial model does not include the impact from a potential 2022 bond election. But of course, we are working on making sure that we do have a model and that there's a projected
 projected increases and models for the future. So also, as I mentioned before, these budgetary pressures. So what's new to our budget and new to the financial forecast is not new to us. I mean, we've always heard about inflation, the Consumer Price Index, but what's new is it's really at an unprecedented growth rate. It's for December of 2021, it's highest level in 40 years at 7.1%.
 Also, in addition to that is what we're seeing in the labor market that we discussed yesterday, we've discussed multiple times, is the difficulty that we're finding qualified employees and the need to fill.
 a growing number of vacancies here for the City of El Paso. But we're not alone in this. As you can see, the great resignation, as it's been coined, continues to dominate headlines across the country and send business leaders of all different industries as turnover reaches new heights.
 As part of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, in their last report that was given on January 4, in November of 2021, a record 4.5 million workers lost their jobs.
 So of course, I anticipate that a number of these workers will return to their jobs as part of 2022. So what does that mean for the city? Well, it's important that we're making certain assumptions and forecasting on what that trend might look like. But it's difficult in these times of uncertainty. And the reason is because we haven't seen levels of consumer price index in 40 years. So just to put that into context, since I was three.
 So here you'll see what it looked like at that time or since 1982. And of course, the producer price index is also important to note because we keep hearing about the challenges that we're seeing on our supply chain. What does that mean about being able to get these goods and services that we need in order to deliver the services that our community both expects and is going to rely on as part of the city of La Paz?
 So as I look, as you look at this graph, this graph shows the breakdown of the vegetarian pressures that we just discussed and we're going to discuss how it may impact those fixed costs.
 So this slide shows you the FY 2022 General Fund budget and breaks it down by major categories. With 60% of the budget is just to ensure that police and fire services are available to our community. The next portion, of course, is the salaries for civilian employees, which will be 19.8%, and the remaining 20.3%, which includes, of which, 14.7 or 69.9 million.
 of those expenses are what we encourage just to do business. From utilities and appraisal services to our janitorial and security contracts, these are essential and require services that are expenses that may be impacted by inflationary pressures, along with the changes in the labor market.
 So as we go into more detail about each category, please remember that they represent a significant portion of our general fund. While they are necessary expenditures, we continue to identify process improvements and make recommendations to reduce their impact on our budget. But it's important we have this conversation about these fixed costs. And we continue to receive as this allows us to focus on the priorities of this council and fund those cost rises that is critical to our community.
 So first, of course, the key factors of utilities. We've seen increasing utility rates that you all are very well aware of, and also impacts the city of El Paso. And so while we were able to find some efficiencies as part of FY 2021, and as I mentioned earlier, we adopted the new automated irrigation plan, which should assist with the cost of water.
 moving forward, we're still looking at increases year after year, as well as the new capital – quality of life capital projects that we must add to our income choice.
 In addition to that is our appraisal services. So appraisal services is based on a calculation established by Texas Tax Code, and it is, we represent or we pay 25.2% of the Central Appraisal District's budget. And so their budget is approximately $18 million, and so you can see those increases that we have had since 2015. Excuse me, since 2015.
 And so we do know that depending on their increases in their operating budget, which may be impacted by compensation increases, may be impacted by legal fees, we could see additional increases in the contribution that we are required to make to our appraisal services for the services provided by our central appraisal district.
 Information technology contracts, of course, are very important to our organization. They've allowed us to continue to telecommute our support services through this investment, and they also have allowed for enhanced cybersecurity efforts through our IT contracts.
 But they do, as you can see here, and they are in the blue area, our IT contracts, along with our outside contracts and office equipment maintenance, which includes the support for those contracts in addition to the actual enterprise agreements. We'll see that increases in blue from $5 to $6.2 million as we continue that investment in support for our important IT contracts.
 Vehicle maintenance and equipment. So here you'll see both vehicle maintenance and equipment and our gasoline. So as we look at those two areas or those two costs that we have as part of our budget, vehicle maintenance is really impacted, of course, by the age of our fleet. And preventative and reactive maintenance as we see it.
 So when we're able to make those investments in our capital replacement plan as part of the general fund, it is going to impact our vehicle maintenance plan. As you can see in 2017, we started to peak with our vehicle maintenance at about 5.1. Since then, we've dropped down to about 4.1 is what's projected for FY 2022, but it's because of the new vehicles.
 that help reduce those maintenance costs and also improve our fuel efficiency. Of course, it's important to mention that gasoline prices, just like for you and me, fluctuate within the market rate. They also fluctuate for the city of El Paso.
 Sanitorial and security contracts. So as we're going to renew these contracts, we're starting to see future increases in those services due to the current labor market, what we've predominantly seen. There also is an increase in number of facilities to maintain and square footage that also has an impact on that. But also we know that the wage that's required is going up and so we are seeing increases in these contracts.
 health care costs so it's important to note as part of the impact for COVID-19 when you see large increases in our health care costs from FY 2020 to FY 2021 that there was a huge impact of COVID-19 and so while we continue to
 We continue to invest in our healthcare costs as a city and minimize the impact to our employees. It's important to note that we've seen, we've really seen our healthcare costs double since 2016.
 So in summary, public safety remains as an important priority and we continue to look ahead at our collective bargaining impacts along with their increased staffing requirements and the operating costs for FY 2019 public safety bond projects.
 We have $407.1 million in bonds that remain to be issued for previously approved capital projects. We're keeping a pulse of our workforce and looking at various ways to address our vacancies, assist with retention, and minimize our health care costs on our employees.
 In 2012, of course, our 2012 quality of life bonds, of course, we continue to look at the future operating costs for those projects. As well as the unfunded needs that we continue to have, which include both our facility maintenance, the vehicle and equipment replacement that we've discussed, but not only affects our public safety, but also impacts other departments.
 for those light duty vehicles that we see that assist them as part of their work, as well as technology investments that can assist us both with our workforce and to assist in telecommunity and any additional capital projects that will be completed.
 So as we talked about, both our priorities, those cost drivers, and our fixed costs, we need to stop and look at what are those budget challenges. We continue to see unfunded departmental supplemental requests, as we mentioned last budget process. We have unfunded council budget requests, requests that you all have specifically asked for that still remain unfunded, as well as the
 the obstacles and challenges we're seeing in retaining and recruiting for our essential vacancies. We continue to see COVID operations and the impacts of COVID across the organization, with estimated costs still needing to be determined based on the current response level, as well as the aging infrastructures, facilities, and equipment that we have here at the facility.
 Another challenge that is very important that we mention is the limited annual revenue growth. And how is it limited? Limited by the state. State actions that have been taken that are limiting our ability to not only grow revenue but identify new revenues.
 So as I mentioned before, Senate Bill 2, or the property tax cap, is limiting our property tax increases. So where before we had a cap of 8%, it has been lowered to 3.5%. This does have an impact when property taxes are number one of revenue sources.
 And in addition to that, we have the state where median maintenance on St. Rose has been shifted to the city and the city was forced to take after defunding these programs by the state. In addition, the Senate Bill 1152, which impacted our revenue generated from telecommunications franchises, and of course the elimination of the red light cameras. All of these areas we have seen an impact to our revenue that was
 created by our state. So how do we address it? How do we overcome these budget challenges? And we've really seen a financial transformation in the past years. And so I'm going to go over some of those tools and actions that you have seen that have assisted us in this financial transformation, which includes the creation of set-aside funds or paid-go funding for our priorities that we've discussed,
 such as the residential street resurfacing, our public safety vehicle replacement, our park sports complexes, and economic development. Looking at a reasonable economic development strategy only helps us with sales tax growth.
 In addition, we evaluate service delivery of all areas, and we're looking to eliminate or reduce services that are no longer needed or improve them through continuous improvement through our Lean Six Sigma projects as well as examiner training. In addition to that, we're currently evaluating electrification of our fleet to identify the benefits that are available of that initiative.
 In addition, we continue to utilize the organizational chart to improve alignment and service delivery while consolidating positions and establishing a more efficient process.
 Strategically, we save money while increasing revenue. And it's important that we really reiterate that because a lot of the savings that we've identified over the past years through continuous improvement have allowed us to reinvest that funding, reinvest that money in projects where they were needed, in priorities that were established by Council and our community.
 We have increased reserves every year since 2015, and in March of 2020, of course you all remember, you established the Stabilization Fund.
 We've looked at, as I mentioned before, the organizational restructuring and the efficiencies and savings that come from that restructuring, as well as the existing debt refinancing, which created savings of approximately $46 million since 2016. In addition, we have our new franchise agreement that has increased the general fund revenue by $750,000, an additional $5.3 million for economic development initiatives.
 So our next steps and the next budget updates to come, we're working right now on finalizing the five-year financial forecast and we plan on presenting to of course the city manager and to city council as well as preparing to kick off the FY 2023 budget along with our China. And that concludes the presentation. Thank you. Council, again, I remind you, please no side conversations. Okay, Representative Rivera. I just had a couple questions. Ms. Gowdy.
 Thank you again for the presentation. And obviously there's a lot to talk about, and we still have some uncertainties as well. Relating to the $407 million yet to be released, can you talk about how that impacts, are we paying interest on that, how that impacts our budget overall, the $407 million yet to? Those that are, that $407 million that's referenced in the presentation are yet to be issued, so that's debt that's remaining. So a majority of that's coming from the Public Safety Bond Project.
 no we're not paying any interest on that we have not issued that debt yet so we're not paying not paying interest on it it's just it's it's there that we can use if we if we draw it down no those are those no we have not sold those offices we do not have that cash yet that's future future debt to be issued okay it's approved not not allocated okay so it doesn't doesn't affect the tax rate
 Yeah, they factor that into the calculation in terms of blending it into future rates. Just curious about it because I can see that, you know, there's an article that says we have 47. So these come from the 2019 CIP, the 2017, the 2018 CIP, the quality of life 2012 CIPs, where some of this is coming from?
 Correct. $246 million of that is in the public safety bond project. So a large majority of that is from the public safety bond project. Okay. I think for future updates, I think it would be good to have some sort of graph or slide that could show this yet-to-be-released debt. Sure. Just so, again, for the community and for others can understand this is what we sort of have in the pipeline. I have it in front of me if you'd like to see it.
 I want to be sensitive everybody's time we can maybe just email that to us or share it for another Robert just pull it up while he's still asking questions yep I do ask questions it's true no just keep going and he'll just pull it up in terms of the park the irrigation automation systems that were approved from council I know there was a pilot project I guess in each district which which parks are currently has they all been installed at this point or is there a part
 Representative Forspine, that's an excellent question. It's something that I know Sam wants to jump in as well. So I actually went on and visited the Street to Main Department last week. It's been really exciting. They're going to be bringing that back in the future, an update on that. They've actually been able to do more parks than they originally planned or projected. But I'll let Sam add anything that he may want to on the parts of that project.
 Yeah, Sam, as we just said, and Janelle was just going to say, Robert, that the last update that I received, we already installed four out of the eight that were approved. And as Robert said, we're going to be able to do more. So we'll send an update to council or when they come back, share with you what they're planning to complete on the schedule on that. Do you know which four have been installed and which eight are being planned?
 Not off the top of my head, Representative, but we'll send that out to Council. That would be four and four, Representative, of 9th Park Town Hall. Yeah. Because they already did four, there needs to be another four. Yeah, yeah. So four, the four that are billed, the eight that are planned overall. Does that make sense? Yeah, I hear what you're saying. I didn't want anybody to think that was 12. No. Four plus, the four out of the eight. Four out of the eight. I want to know which of the eight have been done. Got it. And what are the eight total that are going to be done? Yeah, got it. Thank you.
 we'll just show this later robert yeah that's fine we can all we can just present that in a later date just go ahead and email that to them and then we'll present in future uh budget and i think if there's a way to show that in future budgets as the different colors sort of yeah we can do that
 You know, not as a spreadsheet, but as a graph of some sort. I think that would be. Robert, if you could just include that in the next budget update. Helpful. Sure, yeah. And actually, this recently presented this back in November when y'all approved the most recent issue. And so I included that information as well. Thank you. Not only in the table format, but in the graph format as well. Okay. The NTMP program shows that there's 250,000 scheduled for
 uh the upcoming budget at least that's kind of what nicole spoke about a little bit i'm curious how many projects are still in the pipeline for the ntmp project and how we came about the 250 000 because that's a project that a lot of our districts our residents we hear a lot about it about their ongoing concern traffic management and the speed cushions and so i know that we're looking at 250 000 but i think
 that number we might want to that's really something i'd want to see is what we can do to look at having that number increase because i know that there is a big backlog for mtmp
 Yeah, what I'll say to that representative is that we're working with streets and maintenance to hire a consultant. The backlog right now is the traffic study portion of that. They've been working with a consultant to help us catch that up. We'll be sending an update to council when they come in and do an update for streets and maintenance. We'd be happy to share that with you, but I know they're looking at outside help.
 to just to get the traffic studies because that's that's where the backlog is right now for us and again that wrapped up yeah and and i'm talking to just in terms of the list of ones that already went through the process of a traffic study were approved they they qualify you know wanting to make sure that we have the funds to execute those as well um so that's just one item another one too is i know that there's a number of impact
 due to uncertainty related to the COVID epidemic and the fact that we're still pandemic and the fact that we're still living through the pandemic. But I know that a number of them were funded through hotel and motel tax. So I do hope to have a discussion about how to specifically the filming that was started the 18th. Those are the comments at this point, but I really appreciate the informative and thorough presentation today by staff.
 Hi, super quick, more for Sam Rodriguez if he's online. I'd love to have an update on the dangerous intersections. I know we passed money for it in the budget last year, so just with the next update, I'd love to see that. Yeah, absolutely, we'll have that for you. Just to give you a very high level, we're negotiating the Vision Zero design consultant cost, so we'll be bringing that to council. We're wrapping that up, and then,
 I think it was October, November, where city council approved a partnership with UTEP to help us analyze the 19,000 plus accidents throughout their city. As I understand it, they've been wrapping up a lot of the analysis and we'll be bringing back recommendations and an update to council on that for that safety, for the intersection safety and making good progress on that. Thank you so much. Thank you all for the presentation. Thank you, Nicole. Thank you. No other questions?
 Yes, the next item is number 40 and this is the Department of Aviation will provide a management update regarding air service development strategy. If IT can bring up the presentation for item 40 and also Laura if you don't mind meeting item 41 to the record because it will cover both items please. Certainly, item 41 is discussion and action on the resolution for the El Paso City Council to adopt the City of El Paso Department of Aviation Air Service Development Incentive
 Thank you. Sam Adria is director of the airport. I think covering this presentation. Yes, just waiting for the presentation. If you can go to the next slide, IT, please.
 Thank you. So the airport is part of the regional economy. We're very keen on what air service and the airport has to offer when it comes to economic development, tourism, just being able to visit family and friends, Fort Bliss and everything that it has to as far as the demands for air travel. So we're very keen on that and want to provide this update to council as well as the airport.
 I-41 is going to cover an update to our incentive policy to continue to be aggressive and attract air service to our airport. Next slide. The presentation is going to cover three basic items. Just looking at the pandemic and our recovery. I think as a region, we've done really, really well as an airport from a recovery standpoint. We've also been working very closely with the airlines and understanding what our community priorities are, one of which was the city of Austin
 You see the upgrades that we've been able to receive from the airlines as far as air service and the number of flights that we have now to Austin has been upgraded significantly. And then looking beyond the recovery, where we're going with it, and that's where you see some of the upgrades to incentive policy, but also the efforts that we have at staff at the airport to be able to continue our aggressive approach to air service development. Next slide, please. This is a really great slide that just highlights the impact from a passenger standpoint at the airport. The...
 The green is the 2021 traffic counts and pretty much from July of last year, we matched pre-pandemic numbers from a passenger standpoint. Very, very promising and good numbers from a recovery standpoint. Going into 2022, it's really going to be a good opportunity for us to continue that trend with the service that's been programmed by the airlines.
 Of course, they're being impacted, as you've seen in the air and the news, with staff shortages and the impact that they're having from the COVID impacts and missing pilots and flight attendants with cancellations throughout. So from our perspective here in the region.
 We've done very, very well. And what they scheduled for March, April, and into the summer shows very promising numbers. Overall, 2021 compared to pre-pandemic 2019, we were at 86%, 86.5% of the traffic. Again, just exceeding our projected numbers that we had budgeted for fiscal year, the calendar year 21. Next slide, please.
 This slide shows you the number of seats that we had in 2021 compared to 2019. So overall, we saw a decrease of 500,000 available seats for the region. However, when you look at the numbers and the comparisons, the load factors for 2021 were much, much higher. And those factors mean the percentage of the airplanes and how much they were full.
 compared to one year to another. In 2019, our planes were just over 81% full coming out of El Paso. In 21, they were over 91% full. So even though we had less number of seats, we're packing them in there, especially in the latter part of 2021.
 Overall, again, 22% reduction in seats compared to 2019. And again, that's mainly due to the impact of COVID, but we recovered very, very well. Next slide.
 This shows the low factors that I was speaking about, 2019, 2020, and 2021. And you see the 2020 in dark blue. You see there was a big impact at April of 2020. It was pretty dire. 2021, you see the low factors.
 very, very high in the latter part of 2021. Again, just showing that the demand was there and we're filling the planes and we're definitely rewarded by the airlines in terms of the service that we're able to receive and program with the announcements in 2021. Next slide, please. For the upcoming and what's been programmed,
 You see the number of seats. DFW continues to be our strongest market, and that's been programmed primarily by American Airlines, and the larger aircraft that they've put into our schedule and the frequencies has been very, very strong, and that continues in 2022. One of the things that you see on here is Austin now has the third largest number of seats.
 When you look at the pre-pandemic number, I think there was number 10th market in terms of available seats to Austin. That now has moved up to the third city in our markets as far as destination. Next slide, please.
 Our strategic plan has been critical to our ability to attract and make new announcements for air service. And that's been reflected in everything from economic development policies to our tourism to Fort Bliss and their movements and our ability to maintain the military presence here. And even things like
 You know, the Afghan refugees have definitely been an impact to our airport and demand, and that's been responded to by the airlines very favorably in making sure that we have new announcements. Overall, we've announced 27 new flights.
 since the strategic plan was adopted. 2016, we also had three new airlines, Allegiant Airlines came into the market, never before. So they started with flights to San Diego, Las Vegas and Orlando. Next slide, please. In 2017, Frontier as well, started new flights to different destinations. Next slide, please.
 Frontier came to our market with flights to Las Vegas in 2017. They've now since added destinations to Chicago as well as Orlando year-round. They've been very successful in our market as well. Next slide.
 In 2018, Alaska Airlines came into our market, again, the third airline. They started service to Seattle, really driven by Blue Origin and the demand that they have to connect to Seattle. They've been very successful to where they've now announced in April they're going to be upgrading the aircraft to a full...
 full-size aircraft is going from 70 seats to 159 seats in April again just showed the demand and the success that they had here and at our airport next slide please
 In 2021 was a very great year for us. Again, this is where Frontier started Las Vegas service. They also started Charlotte, even though that's temporarily been suspended at the beginning of 2022, it is on the schedule to come back in April based on staff and the aircraft availability. And you also see the Austin announcements where we now pre-pandemic, we have one duty flight
 And now we're looking at six daily flights, three on American and three on Southwest. They've been very successful and have been very, very high demand for this market. Next slide, please. This is our map that shows our current destinations, 13 non-stops to most of the major hubs throughout the country. And it also shows our top ten destinations that we're pursuing both nationally and internationally. And I'm going to go into those here in a minute. Next slide, please.
 Our top five target destinations that we've been working very closely with airlines include Washington, D.C. The market is there. Demand is there. And business case is there. And we've had really great discussions with United about the opportunity that they have to serve our community from Washington, D.C. New York as well. We had a great meeting with Jeff Blue at the end of December last year. But we're going to continue discussions with them as an opportunity for them.
 Really great demand, again, from an OND standpoint to connect to New York. And then San Francisco as well is another one that shows really a great opportunity, especially for the aircraft that is coming out with the Airbus 220, which is a great aircraft for us to be able to serve San Francisco. And then Detroit is one of the market areas.
 areas from an automotive standpoint to be able to connect that and open up a new market for us there will be very, very critical as we move forward. Next slide, please. I've also shared with Council and the community the leakage study that we completed in 2019. These are the number of passengers across the border every day to use the airport in Ciudad Juarez, primarily to Mexico City, Guadalajara and Cancun, as the primary destinations out of that airport.
 It's just a great number for us to share with the airlines, both the US airlines as well as the Mexican airlines, to really show the demand and the amount of passengers that cross the border and to make a case for us to have that international service here at El Paso. We're gonna be upgrading or doing a new study in the summer of 2022 to capture 2021 and into 2022 to validate in or get updated numbers to be able to share that story with the different airlines. Next slide, please.
 When you look at those numbers, these are the top ten destinations of where passengers from El Paso, when they cross the border, these are their final destinations. Primarily Mexico City, Cancun, and Guadalajara are the top three. And so out of this list, we've determined what our top five destinations are going to be for us to target. So we have really great discussions about Cancun with both U.S. carriers as well as Mexican carriers.
 Frontier and Southwest seem to be very, very interested in this route and have really great discussions with them about the demand being there and for them to capture the traffic before it crosses the border. Really making a case for the U.S. carriers that they're not stealing away from their major hubs, rather really taking advantage of the fact that folks are traveling here already and they'll be capturing this market as well as stimulating additional opportunities for those that don't travel into Guarani to go to Cancun.
 Chihuahua, great discussions with Armada and Todd as an opportunity for them and the connections that we have here in El Paso both for family and business. Just a great opportunity to continue to have really good discussions with them. Obviously Guadalajara is a big market as well. Mexico City, great discussions with the Mexican carriers there as an opportunity. And then Puerto Vallarta, we see as a key opportunity for us as well. There was no direct flight from Ciudad Juarez, so
 being able to capture this regional market from both sides of the border as an opportunity to be had by whoever jumps on that route. Next slide.
 So as far as our approach in aggressive, we've been very, very aggressive in sending information to the different carriers, sending them economic recovery reports, updates on unemployment, new announcements such as the Marmax facility or Amazon. Whatever economic activity we're able to share with the airlines, and we've been sending those reports out regularly so that they know and they keep up with the demand for our community.
 We continue to have virtual meetings with them individually with airlines. As I mentioned, the last one that we had was with JetBlue again in December. We met with 16 airlines in June of 2021 in Orlando to really present the case for all these airlines about our community and to share the opportunities that they have here with us.
 We attended the conference in Las Vegas for . And then we're scheduled to go to San Antonio later this month, again, to continue the discussions with the different airlines and the different, again, our top 10 destinations that we're gonna get non-stops for our market. Next slide. As far as what's next in our approach, we wanna continue to be aggressive, and you see that with the new incentive policy or updated policy that's part of item 41 today.
 We're going to be engaging in the leakage study again in the spring of 2022 this year to be able to update our numbers for the international. There's nothing like data to be able to present that business case for the airlines, and they've responded very well to it. Ultimately, what we hear from them is they want to set up and recover the network that they had pre-pandemic.
 In order to be able to capture some of these additional markets, we're going to have to be very aggressive again and be able to present those numbers to them. Next slide. So the incentive policy that's being presented to you as part of item 41 today, we see industry-wide incentive policies are very important marketing tool for us. It typically includes waivers and reduction of airport fees, as well as marketing support.
 Just to share with you, we do have to meet FAA requirements on these type of policies where we can't discriminate against any particular airline that comes into the airport. All airlines are eligible for incentives.
 And we can also, we cannot use revenue from the airport to incentivize any airlines, meaning that we cannot, from the airport money side, we cannot do any revenue guarantees to them. So it can only be based on fee waivers or marketing type of dollars. Next slide, please.
 So the incentive policy that we have, we did benchmark against many other airports, small and medium hub throughout the country. Most airports do offer 24 month fee waivers as well as additional rent abatements for terminal rents as well as marketing assistance. So that's something that we're upgrading our incentive policy and what we're presenting to you.
 For domestic services, so this is for additional nonstop destinations, we're asking for...
 an extension of 24 months of landing fees. So before we had 12 months, now we're asking for 24 months of free landing at our airport. We're also including 100 square feet of terminal rent space at our airport. And then marketing dollars, $5 per departure seat on year one, and then dropping to 250 departure for year two. The marketing dollars are on reimbursement basis.
 through it to help them market the route to ensure the success of it, especially something that we're trying to develop a market for. Next slide. For international, again, we're upping the landing fees to 24 months of waiver and adding the terminal space for them to operate out of. And then the marketing is $10 for departure seat and $5 for departure seat on year number two. Next slide.
 With that, Mayor and Council, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 This one is particularly important because we hear from this from the business community relative to additional flights, especially to Austin. So as you saw, we went from one to six, especially going through a pandemic post pandemic. That's a that's a that's very stellar work by our team. And so I just want you to see that just like we do across the city, we always work on a plan and then execute that and then get these kinds of type of results.
 the incentive policy that's intended to be more aggressive, we feel like we'll be able to go after some of those other flights that was presented today during the presentation. Thanks again, Sam, this is a really great presentation. Really, really enjoyed the amount of detail and depth of this, especially looking at the expansion, both nationally and also internationally as well.
 The targeted destinations make a lot of sense, especially with our alignment related to different economic industries, specifically Nashville being the headquarters of a number of multinational, country-wide healthcare corporations. Makes all the sense in the world with our focus on healthcare, as well as investment in R&D otherwise to have that, to look at establishing that. So really excited about those conversations that you're having.
 I wanted to go to, and again, I think slide 13, the top ten goal destinations. I think slide 13, the top ten goal destinations. I think that's a really powerful and illustrative slide for the Council and for the public to be aware of because, again, it shows our geographic proximity and destiny of being at this sort
 center of the U.S. and across both to Mexico and North America in general. So it's really great to sort of see that. I'm curious if you can let us in on a little bit more of the conversations, kind of what sort of concerns did you hear from some of these different airlines, both nationally and internationally, about setting up shop here in El Paso?
 Yeah, absolutely. So with the competition that we have with Jeff was an example. You know, they've been in an expansion mode at LaGuardia and Newark. So we really wanted to target them and see if, what the opportunity is. Understanding that there's so many passengers per day that go there already. Their biggest concern is what we hear.
 Most of the major US carriers don't like to overfly their hubs. They're in a hub-spoke type of system. So, for example, American Airlines uses DFW pretty much as the gateway to all destinations to the East Coast. And so to overfly...
 DFW doesn't really make a whole lot of sense to them, especially since they provide a service to Chicago and now to Charlotte, as an example. With JetBlue, their primary service connections are to the East Coast. They do provide a service to Albuquerque, so we made a really strong case to them. And they're definitely interested in the numbers that we show, as an example.
 For the Mexican carriers, their biggest concern continues to be overflying Ciudad Juarez, which is literally 11 miles to the south of us, politically and from a financial standpoint. To set up a new station in El Paso, which is, again, 11 miles north, they're really hesitant to do that.
 And then going south for the US carriers, some of the concerns that we hear also is about running all of their traffic through their hubs.
 in the case of southwest running them through davis love or houston uh hobby is definitely uh something that they're looking to do to make sure that they continue to run their passengers the case that we continue to make to them out of the 400 plus passengers that are going south most of those are crossing the border so they're not really stealing away from their hubs
 But again, the business case is there for us. It's really a matter for them. And what we hear is running them through their hubs, but also looking at opportunities while looking at bringing back their systems pre-pandemic before they can continue to expand into new markets. Yeah, and I think, again, I think there's a lot of value.
 looking and focusing on that international aspect, right? Somebody coming over from Juarez still has to deal with the bridges, whether it's over foot or through car. It's not a very attractive option for crossing, especially when we're talking about whether it's families for vacation or...
 executives or businessmen that are coming to invest or shop or live in El Paso or go to other places in Mexico it's much more of a dignified entrance coming through our international airport. Two other questions one is what is the process if say we had an award for
 for a direct flight to say Guadalajara announced next week. What is the process for our airport to become international? And do we already have like a sort of customs port of, do we have like a custom set up somewhere in the airport? Would that be something that would have to be built out?
 Yeah, so we are an international airport. We receive international flights every day. So we do have general aviation. So private aircraft comes into our airport from the south every day. There's Customs and Border Patrol for GA traffic, general aviation traffic. That's set up to inspect that aircraft. They come in and buy fuel.
 Each aircraft that originates in Mexico are required to clear customs at the first available port of entry. So as you said, we're still centrally located. Then a lot of pilots come in internationally, clear customs, get fueled, and are on the way to different destinations throughout the U.S. So we already have a lot of aircraft.
 a lot of international flights as well as cargo. There's international cargo that comes in every day. So our FTZ offices also house US Customs that inspect cargo with our law enforcement that comes in every day from Mexico. And then we also have our federal inspection station within the terminal that's located on the terminal
 and Terminal B under American Airlines. All our inspection services are already there set up. So if we were to get an announcement, typically announcements don't come sooner than three to four months. There'd be enough time for us to set that up and we'll be ready to go to process passengers at our terminal pretty much as soon as we get an announcement. So all the facilities are there, from a terminal standpoint, to be able to become operational for international flights.
 I'm keeping my fingers crossed. I think I've brought this up probably every single year that I've been in city council. I feel this year is the closest so far we are towards having that international announcement.
 My last question relates towards slide 16, which shows the top 10 El Paso, Mexico destinations. I'm kind of curious, one, if you could talk a little bit more about that total adjusted ELP passenger number. How did we factor that in? And then the other thing too is to understand a little bit more about
 you know, the top five in terms of ranking of passengers versus our target destinations and why there's a little bit of a discrepancy there. Mexico City, Cancun, Guadalajara make a lot of sense. I'm a little bit curious about not necessarily and Chihuahua makes a lot of sense, but I'm wondering about Monterey and Guanajuato. Guanajuato in particular because of its importance to supply chain.
 economy relating to the automotive industry and where El Paso sort of and Juarez sort of figure in on that sort of supply chain.
 Yes, so the way we came up with our top five, really understanding and looking at it and really hearing the feedback from Council. We heard Chihuahua, as you stated, is very critical from a business standpoint, friends and family, tourism. It's a really great destination and one that will make a whole lot of sense. And when you look at the airlines that we've been talking to, they really have a smaller aircraft, so it's tight as well as outside.
 There's two airlines that have the opportunity to go south. In addition to United and American Airlines that operate out of Chihuahua, both of those airlines bring in regional jets to our airport that typically sit overnight. So being able to take a flight down to Chihuahua is a great opportunity for them, especially if the aircraft's already here for the night to be able to take a trip down and back.
 as they wrap up their evening. So again, Chihuahua to me is from a, because we have to do, every time we meet with an airline to target market, a new destination, we have to come up with a business case for them to make sure that we know or the information that we present makes sense for them to operate it and start it back up and start up a new route. So that's the reason we chose Chihuahua.
 When you look at the numbers, if I can bring back that table, Fort Leon, Guanajuato, as well as Monterey, the number is about 20,000 naps per year. It's not a high-demand type of situation. You will require a full-size aircraft to go down there. It would not be a regional jet, so it's definitely a bigger challenge for us to make a business case.
 However, with Puerto Vallarta, we see that as an opportunity from a leisure standpoint because there's no direct flights from Ciudad Juarez to Puerto Vallarta. So everybody that's going to Puerto Vallarta is connected to the Mexico City or Guadalajara. And so we see that as an opportunity for us to really stimulate the market to a new leisure destination because –
 Cancun is already served from 2,000 hours direct with a direct flight. Being able to provide a direct flight to Porto Alegre, we believe the demand is there for leisure, for leisure market, to be able to go down there two, three times a week and be very successful.
 And this last question, so those El Paso adjusted numbers, these are by and large people that are traveling from the U.S. into these destinations, or these are that in addition to El Pasoans that are traveling from Juarez into these Mexican destinations?
 All these numbers are folks that cross the border and go into Mexico and fly out to Nahuatl. These are the folks that are flying from our airport to Mexico. These are folks from El Paso that cross the border and use Nahuatl's airport on a manual basis. This is all 2019 numbers.
 And I think that's a powerful number, too. It just shows how truly interconnected both of our communities are, both culturally and economically and otherwise. And so really great presentation. Thank you again. Again, I'm feeling lucky. I'm really thinking this is the year that we're going to have it. Congratulations and thanks again for all the hard work from you and your staff. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, Sam. Thank you. I definitely want to reiterate what Representative Schwartzbein said. I have a few questions about kind of the implementation of the, I don't know why I can't think of what the correct words are, but just the implementation of the program, I guess. So these are going to be for new flights, either with current airlines or new airlines?
 Correct. So when you look at the incentive policies, whichever line, you know, let's say we get a...
 JetBlue that wants to come into New York, as an example, they will be eligible for the incentive policy. Frontier has a new flight to Cancun because they have a big operation there, so we've been talking to them about that. They will be eligible for the incentive policy. It's available for existing airlines that serve our airport or new airlines that come into our market.
 Okay, and I just want to be clear. So you said based on FAA law, you can't signal out an airline. So does that kind of open us up if an airline has not added any new international flights? Can they kind of file a complaint that they're not being given the same consideration?
 No. I mean, anybody can file a complaint, but the way we apply the policy literally is, and it doesn't have to be our top ten destinations that we're going after. We believe those top ten have a great business case. We have a great business case for them to start a direct flight to those markets. But if they come in and they want to fly to New Orleans, as an example, they will be eligible for that policy.
 for that, for the incentive. It's not restricted. That's part of the requirement for the FAA that it's available to any airline, whether you're operating at our airport or not. Okay, and you mentioned that the funds are reimbursable.
 Yeah, the marketing dollars are reimbursable. So we don't, you know, when a new airline comes in, and Charlotte is an example with a new market, so they're eligible for marketing dollars to help market the route and help it be successful. So if they show that they've spent $100,000...
 you know for billboard or mark or magazine uh you've seen some of the marketing spreads in some of the airline magazines and whatnot they're spending dollars on a market that would be an eligible expense for us to be in bursting for provided that they provided a number of seats that would capture enough money to get them the money that they reimbursed hopefully that makes sense
 So whatever money they spend, as long as they have enough seats, times the $5 per seat, that will be a knowledgeable reimbursement to those airlines. Okay. And then I guess you said you cannot use airport revenue, and I think you probably touched on this. What revenue will you be using for this? Or what, I'm sorry, source of funding?
 So, the marketing dollars is airport revenue. Obviously, the fees that get waived, it's lost revenue to the airport. So, it is still all being driven by the airport. The point that I wanted to make and I want to make sure that we're clear on is that the airport cannot do revenue guarantees for an airline.
 So if we were going to do a flight to Chihuahua as an example, and the airline that comes in wanted to do a revenue guarantee agreement, the airport revenue could not be used to provide that revenue guarantee for that airline. However, other airline partners, business partners, whoever within the community could literally provide that revenue guarantee to that airline to entice that airline to provide that service. But airport revenue-specific,
 could not be used to guarantee revenue for the airline. Okay, great. Thank you so much for the clarification. This is a great program. Thank you very much, Senator Novo. Representative Molnar. Thank you very much, Mayor. Mr. Rodriguez, great job. Thank you very much for that presentation. Just a couple of questions. What is the largest aircraft that El Paso International Airport can safely land and take off in terms of, let's say, runway length and things, or weight limits?
 It's available for all classes of aircraft. I think the only aircraft that would not be able to land here would be the Airbus 380, which is the double-decker aircraft.
 our taxiways, our runway would be able to handle it, our taxiways would not be. But we're pretty much, we have all types of aircraft, 747s, the Airbus family is all able to land and operate our airport. Our biggest aircraft that we have right now from a passenger standpoint is the Airbus 221 that's flown in by American. And then of course the FedEx and cargo, DHL and UPI's band big aircraft as well, and pretty much daily.
 Okay, so an Airbus 380, for those people who don't know, that's pretty much a two-level plane that seats a lot of people. And pretty much the different markets, let's say San Francisco, Los Angeles, Miami, they can handle that. And there are also modifications to their terminals. Do we forecast anything like that coming into the El Paso market? Okay.
 No, Representative. Our numbers and the frequencies, you know, it just would not make sense to bring that kind of aircraft in here. The 321 is a pretty large aircraft. We're looking at 180-plus passengers already on that aircraft. And it's probably the biggest one that you're going to see in the foreseeable future at our airport. Most of the airlines operate the 737. The Southwest and American, that's what they're bringing in. And then, of course, you have...
 Delta bringing in the Airbus 320, and then United is bringing in mainly regional jets. And I mentioned in the presentation that Alaska is actually upgrading the aircraft from regional to mainland to 737-800. So that's really primarily our size of aircraft that we have at our airport is the 737. All right, sir. And how many currently right now, how many fixed-base operators do we have?
 We have two fixed-based operators operating at the airport. We announced the reopening of Billionaire in 2021. We're adding a facility out in the state of New York. Two very, very capable FBOs that operate our airport. Yes, and I personally have taken a tour of the Billionaire FBO, and it's great. Do we have any updates? Does your presentation include any updates from fixed-based operators?
 It does not representative from the folks of the presentation was air service commercial air service for for the airport. I did provide an update to council on the airport in general. Where we were and I'll be happy to send that to you. That covers pretty much everything from our development side of the house as well as the traffic and FBOs.
 All right. And the only curiosity is on the, let's just say the FBOs, if we are seeing an increase in traffic. There's also times, let's say, when the Sun Bowl game is in progress, right before, during, right after, there's a huge increase in that. But I'd be interested to know what the other, the daily flights in and out would be. But thank you very much, Sam. I do appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say, Sam, that's a great presentation. I'm excited to see all the progress. The numbers don't lie. They're only getting, they're only increasing a lot of the, what the community has been asking for. So I will have to say, Representative Schwarzbein said, hopefully this is the year that we could give that announcement of international flights. So just say I'm excited and thank you for all your hard work. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez, for the presentation and the hard work.
 Council can consider item 41. Motion approved. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve item number 41. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez is not present. I'm sorry, Council. I'm sorry.
 I don't think everybody voted on that one. No, they only had six votes. They only had six. May we have a motion to reconsider? There's a motion and a second to reconsider. Motion to approve. Item 41, all in favor? Anyone opposed? We're back on item 41. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez. Is there a second? Seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 41. On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you. In the voting session, Mayor Pro Tempore. Your vote, sir.
 i'm voting yes on this ma'am thank you thank you for some reason he's not showing up on my list very excited about this thanks again sam i'm here
 to approve items 42 to 44 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative hernandez has left the meeting that brings us to item number 45 this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1445 grandview and nolan richardson recreation improvements rebid to aztec contractors inc a motion and a second
 there's a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative molina to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 46. is there a presentation on this one this is the award of solicitation 2022-0306 ted houghton street reconstruction to allen concrete llc move to approve is there a presentation on
 Yes, there is. IT, can you bring up item number 46, please? This is Jerry DiMero with the Capital Improvement Department. So this project is the reconstruction of Ted Houghton Street. Next slide, please. Its location is Ted Houghton Drive from Double J Drive to Rancho Trail Drive. It's in District 6. The total construction budget is $1.8 million, and it's funded by the 2018 Certificates of Obligation. Next slide, please.
 The project details is remove and replace asphalt pavement, concrete sidewalks, concrete curb and gutter, install new underground drainage systems, install new LED light fixtures, and make repairs to the retaining walls. Next slide. This is just an illustration of the area by which will be done, again between Rancho Trail Drive and Double J Drive. Next slide please. These are the existing conditions. Next slide.
 And again, this just shows the project limits, remove and replace the existing retaining wall, remove and replace the existing sidewalks, reconstruction for section for sub-grain, which is shown in blue, and an overlay section shown in purple. Next slide, please. Scope of work, removal and replacement of existing pavement, removal and replacement of curbs and gutters, removal and replacement of concrete sidewalks, and address subsurface drainage, sub-grade problems, and mitigate retaining wall issues. Next slide, please.
 This was a low bid procurement. The solicitation was advertised on November 23rd, 2021. Three firms submitted bids. There were three local vendors, and the recommendation is to award the contract to Allen Concrete LLC in the amount of 1.3 million. The construction schedule will start this spring and it'll end up in early 2023. Next slide. And that concludes my presentation. Does anyone have any questions? There's Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you. So just real quick, just because I know I'm going to receive questions about this street. People are going to be concerned. They're going to see that only a small portion of it was finished or done. And they're going to say, hey, how come they didn't do my side of it? So my I suspect that we should have clear results when when that what is it, the test or the the the PCI, when we get the results from the PCI.
 Jerry, I can answer that question. So, um, when you saw the picture of the pavement, the pavement is actually not in horrible shape. The issues that were addressed with the reconstruction, the reason it got included into the 2018 capital plan is there's some serious upgrade issues in this segment of the roadway to where the retaining walls, as Jerry mentioned, do need to be addressed in the adjacent homes.
 And so it's all really driven by this or the failure that's happening at the separate level within this segment. But the actual service is not in horrible shape. The road is basically failed underneath, and specifically in this segment. That's the reason that it got included in only specific Google segment.
 Okay, and I would anticipate that we would have a pre-construction meeting with the public before we move, before we start construction on this, so we'll be coordinating with your office on that as well. Perfect, yes, that's what I wanted to do. Also, you know, and the reason this area is of concern to me is because I have received a lot of calls where people have told me, I have lived here for over 20 years and nothing has been done to my streets. I think you're absolutely correct in that picture that you all showed that the streets aren't really that bad.
 but i think it is important to to communicate to them that while we are doing this portion it's not necessarily because the street needs to be surfacing it's because the other infrastructure needs to be brought up to date um so i look forward to having that meeting with you all and my constituents thank you you're welcome thank you mayor uh thank you again for the presentation just one question is this project being funded with non-voter approved debt yes
 Thank you. Certificates of obligation issued in 2018. 2018 certificates of obligation? Okay. This seems to be a very important project, and I'm glad that this council can make those kind of financial decisions on behalf of the community. Thank you. Without Ms. Prime, we have a motion and a second. Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Council, the voting session is open. In the voting session, we have a motion and a second. Seconded by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative
 And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Hernandez-Lizarraga not present. The next item is number 47. This is a public hearing on a Nornan changing the zoning of several tracks
 from our MU residential mixed use to R5 residential, from R3 residential, R5SP residential special permit and RU residential mixed use to C2 commercial, and from R3 residential to C3 commercial and imposing conditions at the property generally located north of Trans Mountain Road and east of Interstate 10. Council, once again, I'll remind you, please no side conversations during the meeting.
 I believe Mr. Garcia has a floor amendment to read into the record. I motion. Yes, thank you Ms. Dorff. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, and Relegation of Fine Inspections. I do have an additional condition to read into the record. That will be adding condition number 4. And condition number 4 shall read that prior to the issuance of certificates of occupancy for Parcel 1, 2, and 3,
 The rezonings for the properties identified as future commercial on exhibit B be submitted and processed by the city. And again, that's just adding an additional condition number four to the ordinance. Mayor, I can say that this was an item that I asked to postpone. I had some concerns about the rezoning there. The intent of the previous rezoning was to have it as residential mixed use.
 the with the current conditions and after discussing with the applicant or city staff over the last month we're able to still keep that intent looking to ensure that areas are currently going to be developed as residential areas with clearly defined residential commercial uses as well which is extremely important in this area that's quickly growing and so with that i'll be able to make a motion to approve today
 motion made by mayor kirkton-shortzline seconded by representative rivetta to approve on that motion call for the vote i want to thank staff and the applicant for the patience and the hard work and kind of an agreeable solution for this in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representatives anello and his numbers not present mayor items 48 through 60 are all related there's
 Would you like to take them together? I would like to do that. Okay, items 48 through 60 are ordinances granting renewal of non-exclusive franchises to operate and maintain a solid waste collection and haulage service within the City of El Paso to A1 Disposal, El Areal Corporation, Anvil Corporation, Damcom Disposal Management LLC, El Paso Disposal LP, El Paso Sanitation Systems Inc.,
 GCC of America Inc., Heist Disposal Inc., JRG Disposal Service, Loretto Investment Corporation, Moore Service Inc., Sandoval, Capital Inc., DBA Bronco Disposal, and Southwest Disposal. Approve. Motion to the second. There's a motion made by Representative Lizada, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve.
 There's no public comment on these ordinances on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 61 is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to execute a memorandum of understanding with the International Economic Development Council, IEDC. Move to approve. Second. Motion to second. There's a motion made by Mayor Clayton Shorthwaite, seconded by Representative Spice-Steagall.
 to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 62 is discussion in action on the award of task order number 1b-1 fire station 20 fs20 bay edition for solicitation 2021-0811 job order contracting and facilities construction to release company llc
 motion Item number
 Is discussion in action on the request from Florence Cattle Group LLC for City Council to grant an exception from the prohibition of the sale of alcohol beverages within 300 feet of a public or private school for a restaurant and grocery meat market requesting to sell beer and wine for the property located at 6415 North Mason. Move to approve. Is the motion made by Mayor Kocan Shortsline seconded by Representative Zadigai to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 64 is discussion and action that the mayor of the city of el paso texas be authorized to sign resolutions of support and or resolutions of no objection for 2022 nine percent regional competitive low-income housing tax credit applications to rich stone senior seniors and ds at a ghost is there a presentation yes sir yes ma'am that would be yes ma'am
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Mayor, I just want to make sure that I understand correctly. Would the Council like us to give the presentation or not? Yes, ma'am.
 Okay, great. Thank you. So good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Nicole Perini, Chief Resilience Officer, Director of Community and Human Development. I'm pleased to be in front of you this afternoon to introduce, although most of you know him, Mark Webber, our Community Development Program Manager who oversees our housing division. He's going to talk to you today about the annual Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Competition.
 and the discussion surrounding support, no objection or otherwise for projects that are submitted to us through the council approved application process. So with that, I will turn it over to Mark and I will take it back up from him at the end of the presentation. Go ahead, Mark.
 Okay, thank you. Good afternoon members of the city council. You've all been briefed on this and so I'll quickly run through the three projects that remain in the hopper for resolutions of support resolution for resolutions of no objection. Those are the three projects from investment builders Inc. The first one is Ridge Stone seniors. You see it here.
 It's 40 affordable units specifically for seniors.
 You may recognize this property in that several years ago, council gave support for the development of Ridge Stone Estates, which is the lower two thirds of the property that appears vacant here. What the new proposal is for that northern third of the property, at the time that council gave resolutions of support for Ridge Stone Estates,
 Part of that support was predicated on the evaluation score, which also received a higher score because this property was presented as being future light residential commercial development that would serve both the surrounding neighborhoods as well as the Ridge Stone State
 and would serve to sort of bring those residents together. At this time, it appears that that will not be happening and instead is targeted to be development for 40 affordable housing units for seniors. One of our concerns with this property is the lack of traffic control for ingress and egress out onto Montana Avenue, which is a relatively high speed highway. Next slide, please.
 The second proposed development is Sunset Vista Seniors. This is another 40 units of affordable units specifically for seniors. This is located around Zaragoza and Rojas Drive. You see the property there outlined in yellow. It is adjacent to existing multifamily development.
 However, that is the only residential development for quite a ways. On the far upper left, you can see some single family development and actually on the far right along Don Haskins,
 is also where some residential development begins. And so, again, a concern here is the isolation and the fact that these seniors would be living mostly surrounded by, in an industrial area. Next slide, please.
 And the final of the third is along Zaragoza Road and Augusta Drive, not far from the intersection of Montana and Zaragoza. This will be 70 affordable units, not specifically for seniors. It would be open to, you know, not restricted to seniors. The ingress and egress is out onto Augusta and not onto Zaragoza.
 And you see the split between the 30%, 50% and 60% AMI for each of the proposals. You can go to the next slide. As you know, in previous years, most recently 2019, council has established priorities
 for giving resolutions of support, resolutions of no objection for potential low income housing tax credit, nine percent competitive low income housing tax credit developments.
 Among those priorities is location with the Tier 1 locations coming out of the regional housing plan, that being Uptown and MCA, but also with a second tier, and that being any location within a quarter mile of a Brio stop because that does create access relatively quickly.
 quick access across the city for those living in the developments. The three yellow stars are the locations of the three developments, and you'll see that none of the three occupy either a Tier 1 or a Tier 2 area. Next slide, please.
 And so here you have the evaluation results. These developments were evaluated by the planning department, economic development, or the planning division, economic development department and our department.
 On the evaluation rubric that we've created, in the last couple of years, we've talked about it almost like a grading scale. 90 to 100 is an A, 80 to 90 a B and so forth. And that we're really looking for and think that El Paso is delivered A and B projects. Unfortunately, at the end of the evaluation, what we have are is B is an adjusted scoring of 66,
 Sunset Vista Seniors, 57, and Bridgestone Seniors, a 52. Next slide, please. And now I'll turn it back over to Nicole to talk about the options for staff recommendations. Thank you, Nicole.
 Thank you so much Mark and I just want to take a quick moment to thank Mark and the entire team and community and human development that works on this review process and frankly all of our partners across the organization and the other departments that Mark mentioned. Staff puts a lot of time and energy into really making sure that we are evaluating these projects based on priorities that this council has indicated to us over the last
 almost five years now in terms of the development of the rubric that he mentioned. And so when we make our recommendations on an annual basis, we very much make them objectively based on that criteria, those priorities and that process. And so in light of the
 Most scoring projects that were submitted in this cycle at this time staff is recommending that the city council not support any of the proposed 2022 light tech development as none of them scored above a D. And frankly, we had one D and three apps.
 There are options for the council, should we like to have that discussion, but at this time staff cannot in good functions recommend support of projects that do not meet the identified priorities of this council. So I'm happy to take any questions that you all have at this time. We have a few here. Representative Messaria followed by Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you, Mayor. Nicole and to all your staff, I just want to say thank you for all your hard work, for your excellent execution. Always, we are never disappointed in your work. With that being said, I did just want to share some thoughts with everyone on this dais.
 affordable housing is something that is very important to me. Over the past few years we have really improved the city's processes for reviewing the 9% low income housing tax credit applications. We have very transparently shown what our housing needs are.
 We targeted specific locations based on objective facts about access to key services and transportation options. We have made it very clear what a project needs to accomplish in order to score well and receive our support. As a result of these changes, over the past few years we have gotten significantly better project proposals
 And we have ultimately chosen to support some great projects that have added high quality, affordable housing stock in our beautiful city. The stark contrast against these quality project proposals from recent years is why I frankly am disappointed with the proposals that we have received this year. None of them are located within the city's targeted areas.
 And all of them disregard very many of our criteria, including, importantly, the number of units proposed. This ultimately means that we end up with a smaller amount of affordable units that also do not best serve the community. I know staff's recommendation is to provide no support for any of these proposals.
 While I do feel some reluctance to possibly lose these affordable housing dollars to outside of the city, I keep returning to the thought that we need quantity of units, but we also need quality. And it would feel like a disservice to give my support to proposals that score an F on our scorecard because they don't adequately provide for the future residents who would live there.
 I don't want to send a message that we will accept whatever is proposed no matter what it is because we have no choice. That is a bad precedent to set and we really want to encourage the development community to bring us high quality proposals in the areas we have targeted.
 For these reasons, I am inclined to follow staff's recommendation and to offer resolutions of support or of no objection to any of the projects. At the same time, I understand that there are difficulties caused by the pandemic. Our current situation means that it is more difficult for the developers to make these proposals pencil out. I have sympathy for that.
 It also means that there is higher demand than ever for new affordable units.
 While I still just don't think I support F-grade proposals, I would possibly be willing to offer a resolution of no objection to the highest scoring proposal, only the VIAs at Augusta, which scored essentially a D-grade if my colleagues are afraid of losing out. That is the only option I can get behind aside from offering no support to any of the proposals
 which is which as I said I would also be more than okay with if my colleagues prefer to do that regardless of what we decide I think the message needs to be clear that the proposals this year were simply not good enough and this will not be tolerated in the future thank you thank you representative Sadegast representative Rodriguez followed by representative
 Thank you, Representative. That was very well said. You know, I want to echo all of your words and say, you know, I was
 essentially hired by my constituents, by the people, and I promised them that I would fight for them and give them quality projects. And they deserve to have a good quality of life as well, which is the reason why this scorecard was created. And unfortunately for me, a D is, it's not okay. And it sets a really bad precedent that, you know, in the event of a pandemic or in the event of an emergency or in the event of whatever,
 We're willing to make the exception and say it's okay because we're going through something. So with that said, Nicole, let me ask you, what have, in the past, what are the types of scores that we have seen from these developers?
 So we've seen a wide range and I'm going to defer a little bit to Mark to just jump in and correct me if I'm wrong, but in the past five cycles, what we've seen is everything ranging from a project of which we've probably
 issued resolutions of support for. Last year there was a fantastic, or I'm sorry, it might have been a year before last, there was a great project in the uptown area known as Nuestra Senora. That was a project that basically hit every single benchmark that we asked for, and so it scored very, very high. That's probably the one end of the spectrum. We have seen over the last several years a few of the other projects that are not in the tiered
 tier one or tier, I'm sorry, the tier one area still score because they are located near public transportation. We saw at the beginning of the year, we saw a lot of
 actually a project of the ridgestone project, ridgestone one, that we actually offered support for a year or two back. That project scored, correct me if I'm wrong, I believe it was a B. And part of the reason that that project scored the way that it did is because there was a commitment to build out a commercial amenity in the future, as a future phase of that project.
 That amenity has unfortunately not come to fruition, and that property has now been submitted this cycle for a housing proposal. Go ahead, Mark. Go ahead.
 is, and I believe that those that are signed up to speak could clarify whether it has been developed or will be developed. That's the bottom two thirds of the property. And so that still is what will be developed now is that top third of the property, the Front Montana. And it was under that proposal that was supported several years ago that the,
 the portion of the property that we're looking at now was going to be neighborhood serving commercial development. All right, Mark, thank you for that clarification. So the bottom line answer to your question, Representative, is that we have seen a wide range. We have rarely seen D's and F's the way we have seen in this cycle. And that's why we have, as staff, based on process, policy and precedent, made the recommendation to not support any of the application. Okay, and so
 seeing that we have a d and two s and how representative is suggested um to maybe potentially just offering um offering support for one project are we is there room or is it possible for us to cherry pick so because ultimately the way that we have set up this process the decision is ultimately that of the council you all are um
 to move forward in any fashion that you choose best for the people of this community and for your constituents. The process is intended to inform you and arm you with all of the facts objectively regarding evaluation and development. I believe if I understood Representative Nizarga's proposal correctly, she is proposing to
 to provide a resolution of no objection to the highest scoring project, which to some extent there is precedent for, particularly because she's suggesting no objection. So it would be more cherry picking to your point if there was a project somewhere in the middle, one of the X, but because we're saying the highest scoring project, I feel like that's just within the process.
 Okay, and then how long ago did these evaluations occur? When were the applications submitted and when was the process started and finished?
 Mark, can you go over here with us, please? Yeah, the applications were submitted in November, and the evaluations took place throughout December and January, or early January, and when the evaluation process was complete, that's when we began scheduling our one-on-ones with the members of City Council. Okay, and throughout the course of the evaluation,
 Were you all communicating with the developers and letting them know, hey, you need to fix this. You're not going to score high enough. No, ma'am. That is not part of the process. And quite frankly...
 And again, those that are signed up to speak could correct me, but with their pre-applications being due to TDHCA in the first week of January, by the time we're looking at the proposals, they're, and again, correct me if I'm wrong, but they're generally locked in to a certain
 The only other thing that I would add to that, Representative, is that it's important to understand that we are available all year long to have these conversations with the development community. We have it with the Fair Housing Task Force that we oversee.
 regularly. This is a process that takes about a year of planning before you actually get to the application process. So to Mark's point, for us to have those conversations with the applications are in is a little more difficult, but we are absolutely open and our housing strategy actually indicates that we are open to the application process. So we're going to be able to do that
 that we can have these conversations about appropriate areas, particularly with the challenges of developing based on the criteria we have. So we're happy to have those conversations, but unfortunately, they're not occurring. And I can also add though, that both Sunset Vista seniors as well as Ridgestone seniors have been submitted in the past
 and received i'm looking at it right now and they both received f scores as well and so they have been scored at the f level before this year you know what i'm sorry representative i just wanted to add one thing and you and i had this conversation i've had this conversation with several of you you know one of the things about the process that we have set up is that it's predicated on the idea of competition
 It's predicated on the idea that we can drive development to innovate and drive development to deliver based on the priorities set forward by the council and ultimately by the community. But it's difficult to see that come to fruition when we have so little competition in the
 an implicit agreement amongst developers about, you know, who is going to apply in which cycle. And I think that some of those things, you know, undermine the process to some extent, and it's why you're seeing what you're seeing today in terms of the DMFs. Nicole, so let me ask you this. As far as the scale, the grading scale goes, is this typical of other cities in Texas? Is this a standard one, or do we have our own here?
 So we have our own process that we have built out over the course of the last five years, but it is not unprecedented. Other cities go through their own version of the selection process, and frankly, this is where it goes back to what I said a moment ago about being predicated on competition.
 If you take a look at major Texas cities, El Paso, based on the number of developers per capita, has the least amount of competition in the market. You may have, and Mark can absolutely correct me on my numbers here, but if you go to a market like Houston, you may have 10 different projects that may be awarded and tripled.
 Yeah, and triple that number of developers, right? And so you start to get a lot more activity, and the market pushes that innovation. And that's what makes our market different than others. But the basic scoring process and the evaluation process is something that we actually vetted through the Texas Housing Group, which is myself and my counterparts from the big six cities across Texas.
 So would you say that our skill is on the more lenient side or on the more difficult side to me? I don't think that it is. I'm not sure that I could answer that question, is it difficult or is it lenient? I would definitely say it is not lenient.
 It definitely holds the applicants accountable to specific priorities set forward by the council. But I would also say that it's comparable to what we have seen other cities really drive towards so that the requirements that we're asking for are not
 But they are certainly not lenient. We have established priorities and we've asked them to live up to that. The only other thing that I would say to clarify about this process, because I think it gets muddied sometimes because of the context process. We are talking about city support, which equates to a number of points.
 in a developer's application to the state. Ultimately, it's the state that will make the decision about where tax credits get awarded. In a competitive arena, the city awarded points are extremely vital. They will make or break a project. In this scenario, we're not looking at that, again, due to this lack of competition that I've mentioned a couple of times.
 Mayor, I know there's some members of the audience here that like to speak. I don't know if Mark keeps adjusting them. Let's cancel. Since you guys are up here to speak, let's allow them to speak first. Okay. Well, right now. Then we'll let the yesterday you've been.
 them speak um i'm gonna let um the council go ahead and speak and then we'll take public comment okay so i'll go ahead and reserve the rest of my questions for them because they are for them thank you
 Yeah, I mean, I thank my colleagues for their comments, and I thank you, Nicole. I really respect what Representative Lasada said, and I really appreciate her trying to make an exception for one. But the reality is we passed a policy.
 And we now see these two individuals just ignoring it. And I mean, listen, we've been dealing with this with cell phone towers. And now here we are with public housing. And it's like, I just,
 And I'm going to be totally honest, I did not support the policy that we have in place, but I respected it as what this council decided. And I think that it, in my opinion, was lenient to these developers and they consciously made a decision to ignore the policy.
 the policy that we worked with them on, that we compromised with them on. And I just, I think it would be disrespectful to everyone on this council, to everyone on staff who have worked on this policy to make any kind of concession on these. And so, you know, Nicole, I'm gonna support your recommendation. And I thank you and my colleagues for the comments that they've already made. And then I thank you for your work on this. Now, Nicole, is this,
 I don't see if that's correct. No support is 16 points, support is 17 points? So no support, nothing, if we take no action, there are zero points awarded to the development. If you issue resolutions of no objection, that is 14 points, and resolutions of full support are 17 points. Okay, thank you for that clarification. Mayor Prokofian, followed by Representative Salcedo.
 All the things we talk about, sometimes the most dynamic of conversations happen with these low-income tax credits that you can almost time your clock to it. I'm curious about this because I think, obviously, we have these dynamic conversations because there's a lot that goes into these projects. So I'm just curious, just again for recollection, the goal of our policy is to do what? Or the goals of the policy is to do what?
 the goal of the policy is to establish clear priorities that developers can then identify early in their process that was one of the main concerns that we got from the development community is if the city wants something specific you need to tell us what that is and you need to tell us real quick and you can't be changing your mind all the time and so our primary goal when the system was set up was to create a clear and present set
 that developers could follow. Secondary to that, those priorities were based in the plans that this council has adopted, everything from the comprehensive plan, Plan El Paso, to the strategic plan, to the resilience strategy, and so the different,
 quality benchmarks that were established in those bodies of work were embedded into the scorecard as part of this process. And that's also part of why we have so many departments participate in that scoring process because of their expertise. But the bottom line, Mayor Pro Tem, is that the goal of the process is to select the best
 that fit succinctly within the city of El Paso's strategic planning for economic development, affordability, and community vulnerability, and provide for our constituents, your constituents, based on what priorities you see. And so like, again, if I'm understanding the idea is that we encourage development in existing areas, ideally within a sort of,
 sort of interior of our community, but also looking at other areas that might be served by mass transit, might have locations close to commercial areas, perhaps where somebody can live there can be close to a place where they can work.
 And the feeling, I guess, from staff is that these projects really don't address being proximity to mass transit, for example, or proximity to commercial or schools, for example, right?
 connectivity, these are all major components of the scorecard. But there is also a heavy weight in the scorecard in terms of number of units, and that's something
 Number of units does count. So to Representative Nassau point early on, quantity does weigh. It just doesn't get you all the way there. Those other qualitative factors that you mentioned that align with our plans are what gets you over the finish line to that A and B score. And so one of my concerns is looking at the condition and looking at what are the goals or some of the goals of
 of our initiative our policy right and that is to go in and have these affordable housing developments that can be close that can ideally be within an interior of our city or at least they're not directly in the interior of our city be in an area that's close to education commercial or mass my concern is that by taking a very
 whether it's an appropriate or not, but a very aggressive stance towards not giving any numbers or not giving any support, is that we're gonna essentially push these developments or the opportunity for developments in our community as a whole
 out into the county into areas that have less access towards mass transit, less access towards education, and less access towards job sites as well. Because, again, of taking a hard line, and not to say that these projects don't align with the criteria that we've established, but my concern is that we're going to have
 By not awarding any sort of points here, essentially reward those projects that are gonna be out in the county that are gonna even have less access to those things that we are concerned about. And the other thing too is that
 It's a different sort of conversation for these kind of developments when you're dealing with an area that is mostly developed like an inside, like the Nuestra Senora project, for example, the price per square foot from what I understand for that development is close to $20 for just the land itself. Do you know, Mark or Nicole? I couldn't quote that. I wouldn't want to quote that on the record, but we could get that information for you.
 This is where the complexity of housing development comes into this, and I think that there are a number of ways to fill the capital stack that makes a deal possible. And what we have heard, I think, over and over again over the years is that there is a business model, which is one way to approach these types of developments. And that business model is not – our scorecard is not necessarily conducive to that business model.
 But what we have said and what the council has directed staff to look at is how do we push and innovate and innovate even in terms of that capital stack to make those deals pencil and that's what you're seeing with some of in some of the other cities. And frankly, I'd really like to see here in El Paso and I think that you see a lot of
 a little bit of that with some of the kinds of developments that you're seeing, like the Northwestern Rota development. That's one example. But, yeah, I mean, there's definitely – it definitely requires more work. And something I've said many times is that it is harder –
 Well, I just think if we're going to look at these projects and we're really going to commit towards this, I think we also have to understand the market realities, right? To go and develop in some of these areas in other parts of our cities that may not necessarily be within the sort of inner core, we're looking at a price maybe $4, $3, $4, $5 a square foot versus something like Nuestra Senora, which is in Uptown, which is probably closer to $20 a square foot.
 These are costs that a developer has to incur and factor in. And if we're going to be committed towards this vision of wanting to have affordable housing towards it, then we need to also have a conversation. Are there ways that we can use chapter 380 incentives or otherwise to help to get to that product we want? Not everybody has that same ability to... I'm sorry, I got distracted. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I think you're right, sir. I think that what you're talking about are some of the creative vehicles that the one you mentioned is but one. There are many. And like I said, I think that what we are doing is we are trying to push from a policy perspective for innovation. And I guess my- And there are ways to do it. Yeah. Sorry, I was distracted. But I think ultimately, the challenge, there is an opportunity
 an ongoing challenge of how do we deal with the cost of land. You know, the Housing Authority has a different business model than our developer community, I think to not to not acknowledge that I think is just kind of kind of just wishful thinking to a certain extent. And
 towards this wanting to see infill development and wanting to see these kind of affordable housing projects we need to be addressing that as well. My big concern here is with the staff's recommendation is that essentially we're going to be rewarding sprawl because if we don't go and give any numbers to this whether it's a resolution of support or otherwise we're going to be going essentially and not getting any support
 If so facto, we're going to be encouraging these developments to occur in our county, which absolutely has less access to mass transit, educational and retail and job opportunities for our community. And so I'm not sure I can support staff suggestions today. I'm trying to understand what Representative Lozarga is doing. The resolution of support for these three projects would award 17 points if passed by
 i believe representative was suggesting that you issue a resolution of no objection to the highest scoring project only um one thing i do want to clarify because i think this has been a miscommunication and misconception is that particularly in this cycle because you only have two developers competing in the entire region and we know that because we have access to the
 The developers do not stand to lose out on these developments simply because the city council makes this statement about it not aligning with their priorities. There are several projects proposed in Socorro and I feel obligated to make sure that the council is aware of that and we made you all aware of that in your briefings.
 But I do also want to suggest that those projects, a couple of them are literally a mile up the
 matter of a mile so i just wanted to make sure that that was clear and then frankly just based on what pre-applications went in whether you issue support or no objection or take no action at all frankly these developers are in the position to do as they please thank you mayor putnam and i think it's important that if we compromise and accept meteorocracy then that becomes a new standard and if we're worried that things are going to go outside
 the city limits because we're not accepting what they're bringing us and we're accepting mediocrity then that will be the new standard and we need to make sure that's what we follow moving forward thank you mayor and uh thank you to my colleagues for sharing all those comments um i'm trying to look at you know the scoring here and i'm also taking in consideration you know the challenges that we have right now with covet
 and also the cost of goods and services and you know getting the material there and i know that the scoring here is you give scores type on how many units right so that's a direct um correlation to you know covet affecting that um so i don't know if we're looking at these scores kind of with um the eye of what currently is happening um and are you giving
 a point of leverage there are you are you adding some points for that i'll let mark answer that question but i just want to say um if i understand you correctly uh representative there is no code in the scoring system so it is as it has been but mark if you can explain the how that works
 It's a proration formula that actually is immune to market conditions like we're experiencing right now in that the proposal that proposes the most units, regardless of what number that is, gets full points under that number of units criteria. The same points do it if...
 If 140 units is the top number of units in a proposal, that gets full points on our scale. So, VIA that Augusta, with the 70 units, got full points on our scale in terms of number of units. Okay, got it. So, I just wanted to understand how you all calculated. And the reason I do say, and I like how you framed it, Nicole, the COVID curve.
 I think it's very important to look at everything. COVID is currently still happening. It's not going to go away. And actually, there's going to be a new normal. So actually, I think it would be a great opportunity for us to revisit the way we're identifying the priorities moving forward. I think Representative Scherzang mentioned about real estate costs.
 building infield, coming out with more creative ideas of how we can partner. I mean, I don't know what that would be the best solution, but I think it warrants to have another, I guess,
 direct city manager to convene a committee, or we all work on it together, but I think a lot has changed, and I think this is the perfect opportunity to look forward and what our community needs moving on forward. So I think that's something I would like to actually suggest today. I don't know, that would be a motion to direct city manager to come up with the best solution so that we can revisit all these metrics.
 and make sure that it you know makes sense on what we're currently going through right now i just want to add that any scoring criteria that we have as nicole said before is going to be predicated on competition which there is a serious lack of thank you i apologize i apologize i was on mute i just wanted to add to that i apologize um i would ask
 You know, staff is always pleased with the opportunity to take a look at process of person. It's what we do every day. It's who we are as an organization. And we get very excited about it. I think what I would really seek to do is follow up with you all to make sure that we clearly understand who we are and what we're doing. And I think that's what we're really excited about. And I think that's what we're really excited about. And I think that's what we're really excited about.
 BASING OUR PRIORITIES ON. AND IF WE ARE TO TAKE A LOOK AT THE SCORING SYSTEM, I AM PRESUMING THAT THE PRIORITIES SENT FORWARD BY THE CENCIL WOULD REMAIN IN TERMS OF COMMUNITY BENEFITS. AND I THINK THAT'S REALLY, REALLY IMPORTANT IN TERMS OF HOW THAT PLAYS OUT. THANK YOU. COACH ELLIVA? THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU, SIR. I BELIEVE WE WENT THROUGH THIS WHEN WE FIRST CAME ON. IT WAS A LONG, LENGTHY DISCUSSION.
 We even had outsiders that you invited, I believe, right, Ms. Freeman, from Ob- Yes, sir. El Paso, and they couldn't believe the pity arguments that the competitors were having. We as a council had our own conversation with staff, and we came up with that solution. And I think Representative Romero, who admittedly voted against it, said it best. If we get concessions now,
 it just what does it say to our policy what does it say that it's not worth much they knew what they knew what they had to come with they knew what they had to bring they knew what had to bring to the table and if i recall right representative of mayor pro tem you were one of the ones uh talking loudest at the time when it was going to stretch out to your district as well as across the city of el paso so the thing is that uh the mayor also made a great comment
 in the fact that we started accepting mediocrity, then that's gonna happen for the rest of, even beyond our terms here. And that's one thing we were trying to fix as a council. We don't settle just for anything. We don't settle for a bone. We want the whole meat with that bone. And so the thing is that it's not like they were not aware. It's not like staff hadn't,
 board council had made these regulations part of the deal in our vote so the main thing to say was that definitely public transportation some of those people that live in affordable housing don't have cars they don't have families that can go pick them up they don't have they either have to walk to their destination or take public transportation as you saw none of these projects had anywhere near the public public transportation that's much needed to
 I feel that we weren't the city wasn't provided with any really viable project to vote on and I I'm really disappointed that because I didn't expect that from from the competitors the applicants and so I I'm really sad to say that this
 our rules have to stay in place and they have to be abided by the the people in competition for these points from the city and I have to agree with what was said we we concede to this one we have to concede to the next one and the one after that and the one after that and so if we have to accept a poor product like the mayor said then we have to accept the next one over and there goes our our philosophy on council to make El Paso great
 and provide nothing but the best products for el paso and so where people can come in and say this town has its act together so with that um i'll make my decision and mayor thank you very much for letting me speak here thank you very much for your comments and with that yeah i would just like to make a motion um to follow mrs farini's recommendation to not write any letters of support
 there's still public comment so we do have a motion in a second no go ahead go ahead sir we do have mr dayu that's kind of to speak he'll be followed by mr ray lopez good afternoon mr day you do have three minutes sir good afternoon laura thank you mayor council thank you so much for your time thank you representative rodriguez and salcido for meeting with us
 for sharing with us your concerns peter as well as sissy thank you and henry i appreciate your input and your comments i'll try to be as brief as i can mr lopez will be speaking following me so for the record richard dave thunderbird management consulting representing investment builders i just want to point out a couple of things to you the ongoing and consistent challenge that the affordable multi-fund housing developers continue to face
 is the cost of land in the preferred infill development designations in the city. This applies to both for-profit and non-profit entities. We spoke about that a moment ago, and I can verify that, in fact, for the New York de Senora development last year, that Mr. Sichon did with Home, now Home, was $20 a square foot. He was able to do that and still struggling because it is a non-profit organization.
 For-profit companies simply cannot make it work anything above $4 to $5 per foot. That's just the reality. That's not going to change. And to the point about competition, there is a lack. There is a reason why we don't have competition in this market, and that's our average median household income is so low that outsiders who compete in Houston, like was an example by Nicole and Mark,
 their numbers are much higher so they have a lot more room for the float to work that deal and that's the challenge they face when they look at our marketplace as well so we're not satisfied with mediocrity mayor i promise you that but we do have some realities and those realities we've already talked about the cost of real estate the cost of materials etc covert or no covid our market is exploding we see that everywhere people are paying more for property apartment complexes
 both in the in the market rate as well as in the affordable have wait lists for them that's not going to change in the near future i like representatives i'll see those recommendations and i'll make a commitment on behalf of all my clients to sit down at the table and work with you and talk these things through try to find some viable i don't want to use the term compromise but finding a ground a base for all of us to work together so that we can
 achieve what we need which is more affordable housing all three of the companies in this region are doing this right now my client is before you today investment builders is the only developer that does affordable senior communities in the community period for profit i'm out of time unfortunately but mr lopez can come up and cover some of the other points that we spoke to thank you for your time thank you for being here thank you for your patience good afternoon mr lopez you have three minutes mayor council
 I do want to say a couple things. One, to Nicole's point that there is no competition. I can't do anything about competition. Our competitors decided to submit three properties, three developments in Socorro. We decided to submit in El Paso.
 The housing authority decided this year to submit in Clint, a rural area. Again, they decided not to submit anything in El Paso. That's not our fault that there's no competition. We submitted three deals in El Paso. There's nothing mediocre about the deals that we submitted. We have two senior developments.
 that are mirrored after the Metro 31 project in the Northeast that the city supported. It was the only deal the city supported three years ago. These two senior development deals are just many Metro 31 deals. We decided to do two senior communities because there was such a demand when we did Metro. We finished that at the middle of last year. We have 95 units and in 60 days it was fully leased. So there's definitely a demand for senior housing.
 Again, and I've mentioned this to Nicole several times and to Mark, we cannot buy land at more than, and I'm going the topside, $4 and make the development work. It will not pass underwriting at TDACA. So why am I going to try to submit something in a Tier 1 area and pay $10, $20 a square foot and know that it's not going to get approved by TDACA? Those are realities. I cannot submit anything in the Tier 1 areas.
 Regarding bus stops, Bridgestone Seniors, there's a bus stop right next to it. There's a bus stop right next to it. Your maps show it. Maybe Nicole's map doesn't show it, but there's a bus stop right next to Bridgestone Estates. Down the street from Sunset, there's a bus stop right there. Yeah, it's not a BRT, but there's a bus stop right there. There's amenities all around there. There's parks, there's walking distance to parks. There's grocery stores.
 so again i'm uh i'm lost to say why these are mediocre projects yes they did not score uh first of all i'm surprised that i've gotten you know i've never gotten enough in my life so i'm not sure why there's an f you know we've got enough on these deals i mean i'm passionate about affordable housing we've submitted three deals uh two of the properties we own the land
 The other, Augusta, we had to land a new contract. So these were the best deals this year that we could submit. There's only enough credits for two deals to get awarded this year. There's not going to be any more than two deals awarded this year. I'm open to questions. I'm passionate about our projects.
 Yeah, I wish you could get support from him. Thank you. Without any support, our deals will not get awarded, obviously. Thank you, Mr. Lopez. Thank you for being here. I think we need to call the question. Mayor, I have a question. We're going to go ahead and call the question, Mayor Potem. I want to second Representative Salcedo's motion. Pardon me? She did make a motion. Mayor Potem, I'm going to go ahead and call the question.
 there is a second there is a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative rivera and this is to follow staff's recommendation to not support any of the proposed 2022 low income housing tax credit development mayor still would like to floor we've only spoken once
 I'm going to call the question. We're starting to lose everybody, you know, and they have to go, and I want to make sure people have the opportunity to vote on this. So go ahead, Ms. Pryor. Call for the vote. The voting session is open, Council. And this is to, again, can you read the motion again? Yes. This is to follow staff recommendation to not support any of the proposed 2022 low-income housing tax credit development. In the voting session, the motion passes with four affirmative votes.
 representative short spine so see the voting name representatives molinar and is not present the remainder of council voting aye the motion passes motion to adjourn there is an executive session item you want to make an amendment to that motion but after we take i'm sorry we um you want us to talk now no it's already passed yeah we had a second i seconded her her motion item on the agenda you can post
 Yeah, and it was seconded. You were making two main motions. The motion that Representative Anello made was seconded first, so we'll take that main motion first. But hers was not a motion relating towards approval of the separate motion. There were two main motions on the item. The item was? It wasn't an amendment. Had it been an amendment, then it would have been taken first, but it wasn't an amendment. I didn't want to interrupt you. She's meeting with the executive. You don't need to go into the room.
 just remind council that we all were elected here no matter how long we have to be here in council and if we have conversations and things are brought up we should have the respect for each other to handle those not talk over or silence others motion to adjourn so there's no action on ex1 there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, February 1st, 2022 is adjourned at 429 p.m. Stench. As I got closer to the building, the stench was overwhelming. Once inside the building, the stench was so horrendous, it took all of my strength not to puke in the lobby. This person said horrible puppies moments before. No cleaner and sanitizing of these kennels and crates. When I addressed the staff about this, they laughed and said, they're all going to die anyway, so no need to clean and sanitize.
 And then there was this person. In all my years of going to animal services, this is the absolute worst animal services I've ever been. It's like being in the depths of hell. I sat in my car and cried for all...