This is a meeting of the Apostolic Council from T.C. William A. Serra, ex-president of the Presidium of the United States. Members, I would like to give opportunity to the members of the organization to have a word. I have a question. I have a question. Master, the members, members of the State Council, we still pronounce this as a resolution to make the laws and decisions for the citizens of our country, which is the numbers that are not received with justice. This is not only a single responsibility, as is stated in the first clause, of the structures that we need to serve as a society. And I think this is a very significant investment that the science student has described in this example. So it is about this individualized, not in faith, neighbors, guys that have been deeply left as their own partners by our circumstances, those who are partners, but with the faith, also, to give strength and beneficence to the practice, to inspire us all, and if we care for our peers, for society, experience. So it's a big day of life. Strength. May it just be a very nice package. Silence is for all first responders to get up. It's always the departmental assistant, the tech department, the service department. It's the international department. I've been here a long time. You're a student. And you're a student. And before we start speaking, let me just tell you on the fourth, I want to thank you for everything that you've shown them. That we've been doing and how passive they are, and so they're going to use that some of you, like the Canadians and most of you, I know, but those of you who are private people, now have to explain the best Mary Bosco's you've ever had, say, to the medical because you need so much things that were important that really wasn't in your prep of the case. It would be a cost of time to infotain, but I'm going to say it well, cause it was very, very bad. So, there's the Spanish award, a Canadian initiative, the City of Bosco, a C.C. grant, and the service as a grant. I think it's a very similar path for organizations who are always working closely with us. I can't, I can't, I can't hear a friend that says, come on, I was not listening to a friend. I would say, I'm listening, but I'm not listening because I'm not here today. So, anyway, it's a little bit like that. I understand this is a lot of work. It is a little bit like this, I think, as well. It's a big thing, but what's interesting, because I was curious at first, when is this not certain? It's really difficult because it's a new world, it's a new environment, it's different. I was going to say that in 1965, the people of Seychelles and the nations of the United States, of course, the nation of the New Yorkers, the United States, as an empire, and the first things to do as a part of the state policy, were to eliminate the nation of the Arabian Natives, but I think this is an important legacy that we should be taking. So, I thought, I was going to say, so I know I had a case, and I was going to say, I was going to go to school, and I saw the return of people of the Seychelles, and I think that people should be saved, and I was going to say, I'm going to protect them, and I'm going to protect them. Desi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, oi, o o sarilo importase, etc. San Fortunio, a maesima perus, in agrèsio sed, iam simpus a a ralhaisis et fiscumus incus terrestre, i est caes in nivare acuem par soparis et immunos coris, in san agrèsio. Est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acuem, est, acu I'm a student of the East Coast of Minnesota, who's been on the map to have access to sports for all girls and women. And one of our schools showed me a web-asset report in St. Christine's, a webinar sports thing, to provide fashion to my applicants in the out-of-school teams. And I was like, oh, yes, do this. And it's an app about athletes that can't grade, but know how to practice. They state you can work through a website, but it doesn't have a comment in sports. And I think it's to the magic of the ethics of knowledge. Publics mean sport, and it wants to describe to their students how important it is to be ready for any sign point So they were reminders to him that we have a lot of sports, especially children, so they were working on sports. And this is an example of what sport, because she started sport when she was young, and this is a child. Sports is a thing she experienced, by the way. You know, it's always important that people would respect, also, I think it makes a congratulation to her, and also a big congratulation to her, and a congratulation to her always Yes, police officer also. Yes, police officer. And the county police service. Our purpose is to promote social innovation, which is to make some education available to our local district and community. Our community city of El Paso, Texas, where as February 8th is celebrated 24, 2024 is recognized as national. We can integrate nations into national because of the knowledge, skills, work in our society, so we can establish very diverse and well-educated people. Using network works, increasing understanding of, and intercity in England, whereas the Passive Electric has a family of inter-employees, two units dedicated to serving the communities where they live and work, and a responsibility to one of the group's 460,000. The Passive Electric understands the proof of role that engineers play every day in their team landscape, in partnership with other team members. The Passive Electric engineers have designated teams for every week, in class, 23 professional engineers, and the textile passive district are entering each aspect of the agency's work, the design, planning, the fact, maintenance, and construction of that apartment across Texas Statewide is safe, reliable, and to get to 60,000 people in units. And whereas, in the case of college, every 29,400, 600,000 graduates enrolled have all been the student ambassadors in the May 16th master's degree, and six adopted in May, that could be the 107,000 to 8,000 engineers last year, many that have been Spanish in perforation, and many that graduated placed at the rest of the level. There is also a large re-entry, which is meant to configure the research expenditures for the university, that's what's sustained to sustain. Universities are linked status according to the chronic classification system plan, whereas engineer service role models are sources of inspiration to our students and community to realize the power of their knowledge into the engineering workforce. The group has partnered with the Gumbelman-Steen Research Competitory since 2021 We recognize these units with the item of RADA 424.24. So, I'll be known as National Unit of General Passive Electric, Texas Aero-Pastor Community University, Texas Aero-Pastor, and I'm a CIGU Aero-CIGU representative. For passive use, we are the first to be at the level of CIGU units. As far as effective use and leading to use, it's a problem of importance. It is the solution that is needed to save the units, to save the use of the service. And so we can be a preferred support I'm proud to be a tax idol by insane importance, and I see it in the entire city, for being leaders of the military world, absolutely the best people to serve country, and I just want to thank you. Let's go to the most important piece of the topic. As a student, as a, as a, as a citizen, as a resident, as a public, or a resident of the university, I think it's the most important, the most, not just for the technical attention of the student, but as a tax person, as a student, I think that you should take credit d'un fait simple et simple, et, comme les étudiants, ils se sont rendus très concrets et très profonds. Et, comme les étudiants, ils ont été très concrets et très concrets. Et, comme les étudiants, ils ont été très concrets et très concrets. Merci de nous avoir reçus. Merci à nos partenaires, à nos étudiants. Je vous souhaite une bonne fin de semaine et à tous les étudiants. Et chaque année, nous vous donnons des expériences, des expériences, professors, 10% we offer AP to popular school and we are also a diverse group of AP students, community students. And so we are a little bit of a support unit, not only as school students, but as student community as well and an opportunity for us students to do their jobs in the consumer representation field. Thank you. First. Well, I hope that is perfectly in line with the circumstances we've been discussing. I'm going to give a little bit of a hint about the school system you've presented. I mean, so it is the amazing thing is we're really in the business of that 20th partnership because it's really as awesome as it was and also doing it as soon as it was. So we had about 10,000 students at home, so we've got opportunities to check games. How's it going, Tamina? How are you coming? I just want to introduce ourselves. Sometimes I say we're a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very I'm going to start with a citizen-based conference. Professor Nassau, we're really excited to see the first members of the University of Minnesota. pediatric specialists and now there's over 20 specialists led by well-known physicians and medical experts with whom they use their families in El Paso for specialized pediatric treatment in the city of El Paso and where on February 14, 2024, March 12, either CISA, hospital's brand opening in Canso or the city of El Paso, on February 13, 2024, so we know that's El Paso. So since hospital came by, we asked that we submit six numbers as well to the hospital to see if it's safe to It is a special activity for the community. So the Jewish community here in Riyadh is very grateful that they've been kind of forward-spoken, city-represented, and those two individuals who have been especially critical. Most of the recent activities have been actually sort of specialized in tracing foreign waste in the hospital as well. Services that we've used as specialists, external services, has been a lot of the internal impact of weapons that we've used in the direct report. It is very expensive, special options, This is 26th edition of the hype. Our first multi-specialties coach, Lucy, that I had to speak to, just had a conversation with a new white person who had been in the history of my career and some type of experience. And on this, it's just that it's a particular having you on today. I'm going to give you a little bit of a past of having seen you all. We're not looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at you. I'm looking at I can order a custom-made headset and place it the right way with the right to save lives. So, thank you. Thank you. It's a good issue. My problem this way is keeping the editing private, although I'm going to start reading into the records. They're talking about some of the extreme dignity lines, strangers experiencing sinful, physical, sexual, and suicide, and are much more likely to take abuse. In conclusion, if it's an experience made to stop normal self-esteem, whereas losing use of persons prevented from eating and drinking, the Center of Inception of Alcoholism, the Area School District's Ways to Eat Rewards, and provides training for teachers, counselors, and school staff to help these others make a change in their life that benefit the entities they're trying to receive. Help them from abuse. And we're thinking about this third part towards ending eating and drinking. There are ways to fix it. Assisting victims and assessing information through supported services and more resources for the campus and the public-to-school A conveying discussion with the family member about awareness and demands, Karen has over the same time and has team and head of a group that will be taking students on a local-specific, I don't say significant, but in terms of what's included in that learning as we see it's what's new since our education, what's new since our curriculum, does it really feel like this exists? If you work with specific community work groups and other nations that begin in the sub-Saharan India, can you help us to create the type of synchronicity that makes it so that coaches I think I see that these two are looking to change and maybe they're figuring that they should have more of a community-oriented relationship. But can we also take advantage of these conversations with the church group and help them to control and enact this situation? It's not a very political situation. It's also important that teams have somewhere to thank you. So thank you for making sure that these services are being 24 was successful in recognition? I would appreciate that, ma'am. Thank you. Item 24 is discussing a motion to approve a regulation that recognizes advocate efforts to provide tips, like 30 years to 2020, at least to pandemic-dissent, record-free, white-based, calendar packages for essential workers, to essential workers with over 250 non-profit-oriented citizens, sex workers, and residents. And we're asking this interest to be a different type of discipline than the ones that are they are looking, witnessing, and holding the sign as though for food as the total reason for this. And we're asking response as well what homelessness is, as avenues turn our way to a progressive interest in feeding, and utilizing the attitudes of the local community. But Janice Mehta prepares new rules for it. This is not your last supper. We're looking for waste less, one state. El Paso is 2024 and is stintively 13 to 10. resolved by the sort of kinds of undistinguishable puzzle, that we recognize it can be more wicked for the significant efforts to promote the cycles that are meant to be continued, or can be used to continue for years and years to come. So, for our work to do that, do not have a conclusion to it, then that is so important. And that's, thank you for, you know, putting some things on us and what's in the pieces. There is a notion that, not being student-educated, not being this, but not being this, is a very good resolution, and I think that's a very good sense for them. representative of the host, the organization, and the agency process, and the agency. There's an answer in the second to this as to what is going to happen in the year. There's an answer in the second to repeat whatever the city council is now in favor of the administration and there is an answer in the second. And then we'll turn over to the interpreter's question. We have an answer in the third. In the two-year district, basically district opportunities or if you can spell opportunities or both cities, the two-year source of opportunities. There is an answer there by the deputy I think it's the process. So I think that's the same as the engineering resource department process. So I think it's a limited within, you know, within the city and also within our own city. I think it's very important that we don't lose the job. And at the end of the day, I think it's a very important thing that we're doing. And I think that's the key to success. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's a process. City Council still has to help to make the system and city council, we don't deal with certain cities. It's a matter we like to move on. It's so important that Margaret, the friend that in itself, knew he had the best interest in city planning was to make sure that the pride in our city was within ourselves. That Ms. Kelly, or someone I like to know, talking about ourselves, took the risk of taking the site. I think it's, it's a lot more driven if you go, you know, I'm sorry, I'm not good at the world, but I think that the knowledge of the interest that, that I have, you know, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be still in the community, but it would be a tool that's also, you know, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not classed as students, so it means to me that we're in a place where we're students. There's some other kind of purposes as well, but I guess I would be able to do it process educationally, so. that's a particular topic that we see sort of changes in the transition time, spending for the region, so I guess we see it continue to process. Will those, again, if the organization wants to be a part of the decision, I should know. But for us, I don't. That's a nice idea. So, if on this item, there are a few things that I'm going to stick around to, so the first one, I'll tell my sister. I'm not impressed with the system, that search system has been doing stuff for this entire director of the CMO Office of Things. So this is more than a CMO research session. This is our effort to contain and inform our staff. What we need to do next is our CMO research and we want to present that to the CMO in another context. But of course, we wanted to open that up in terms of, we owe it to the public to make sure that our process is doing what it is we're doing, so it's going to be a state-of-the-art process of having a business or something that will continue to be a CMO. And that's not just so high I know that this process is going to be a bit somebody else. I do that just to make sure that what's in the end is doing this. And this is where I'm very focused on the rest of the seminar discussion. And this is from last year. And so the fabric is not there for me. And so we have seen that. So some websites were very close. This is not close enough. I think that's where we should go. And the answer is, this United Council really needs to be able to think across its own different comments. to be fair, I think that's really important because we as students have been at the US campus for some time, so answer those questions. And so, not necessarily one of the things that the applications we sit out sort of didn't get the search for advice from. Yes, they were categorized in different areas, but we absolutely see everything that was there. And for me, I think the first thing is there is not a guitar in terms of grammatical errors or anything that is already out of the way of the person. And when we're So that's really important. It was amazing to me. It's also really important. So to summarize, I had known the places, and then I think I want to go to the 6th grade. I think 6th grade is the best. So I had a question to a computer with HR, and I wanted to make sure that internal, external, and external scale were the best of both worlds. So it's very easy for me to say this stuff, but the entire process of coming up to a restaurant, a cell, the city, to not be from New York and all the rest, we get excited that I was going to move in the city. It is very important that we think about giving the city of Madness a chance to get the same image in the whole house, the house on the other side of the road, getting the city heat with the house out, which is so important and important. And we need to spend a lot of money on ourselves, and that's about me, so it's also important that we finish the Madness and this is investing in our community, we're being invested in our community. So I'm going to be clear, so it is selling well, it's not just boys at the city, but the current city of Madness, And it shows how people who were established on the side of the ground, in the city of Olympus, or the city of Olympus, would have just as few branches of them, so for example, so a woman in the garage to sit would be just as close. That's what is the inflection of the news. The message is what time it takes to get it to sell soon. It's only going to mark the six. It's important to have a projection. Understand that these are important to see, but a lot of projections, the government has proposed in the signs of the civil, the Senate, and you have to suppose to prepare more cold applicants so now it is in my mind like 10x slower and everything was in the backup to manage it to local candidates that it would have been really easy to know or sell over on a house maybe who worked in the city from their constituent year but has since seen what's the success and then accepted the primary office I think taking that at that point would be appropriate I think the process needs to be there and just limits the quality of payment that we get a popular issue from the media announcing that they'd continue the process for two weeks. But for that, it seems to me that the only thing really about this that's, you know, to ask the applicants, don't take away the understandable news that these old deaf figures into like this, put victims in bed and then take off their experience to their own, to get students to their position, I guess, and so have something like this out there that makes a significant concern about one specific way they're called sick. customers who need to be in resources will follow through with the questions and provide them to the mayor and to the council at the bottom of the tab. If they see that the city council, by the resources department, will make it so that the city mayor can receive a meeting with the city manager, and according to his own last questions, an applicant can proceed to make applications to respective districts instead of having some sort of standardized service practice expressed through a match to in the process those services in the national search line and set the scale of the amount of staff needed for the adjustment of the stock of the finance. I've collected and advised the results of the procedure two weeks ago. I have one more week with councils. Here is my line from central. Like I said, I'm going to be meeting just one more week. I'm going to extend the expiration of the bid so that the CMP gets respect over all the services and the storage companies that are going to visit us in the future. It feels like a new year. doing processes. And that's changed the direction that we've been in since that. We don't get to waste the money. Money we've relaxed and we have been showing the common task place that we've stated all these past one days. Process question in the background. I mean, I guess the initial context, when it, see, the people inside in the city, and only people inside in the city, I think that's incredible now for a class of one or more in a city like this. Thank you, sir, for your comments. And, you know, for another two, eight, nine years, followed by a representative also with a B. I see how, well, we could... I'm not going to make it more specific, but I thought that's exactly what I meant. I'm not so specific to that, but that is exactly what I meant. Yes, sir. Do you want to take some time? Yes, I will. Would you like to make a comment on this? Yes, I would like to make a comment. It's, this is just a series of employees who study in particular guidelines and practices. First of all, you can have a profile that is about the same size as the width that I consider that to be where the width is pertinent. opportunity that was the perception issue that we're doing. We talk about president. We're staying till nationwide search. James Wilson was hired over the United States. Wilson was hired in the nationwide search. Which, when it leaves your side of the search, we do a nationwide search. Well, since I was in this process, the thing was the poverty situation, the governance, the way intentions were, are those. It is not against every policy, every secretariat in the city of Canberra, nationwide search, every research. So like I said, we need to consider this process. First, outside companies to, we can, we can do that. And this emphasis on what is candidates, we can give them preferential plans. Consider something they said, is having internal candidates, do you have any, do you think they can all come to the top that we consider that top? Do they have any person they can find? My concern is about process, and my concern is about overweights. numbers appeal so and to explain the tablet. How much it should be considered and how to insert. Since Mark had asked to hear, I said, can you call and represent the minute? I said, the decision should be made in the morning. You're so correct. The best time to reflect on yourself and then if they're not, make sure that you filled. Do you want to understand them? Yes, I do. You can start this way. As you basically said, it's, you know, I'm performing the study. If they all feel it's been so bad, say that again. I'm not saying that's a huge or a huge amount. I'm not saying that's a huge or a huge amount. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I feel like I'm missing the word process. I just going through the entire process itself, that's when you're in the superintendent. And that was my initial thought process. The entire process was about four to six weeks, so I think it was in the end as well. Because in a process, you can't have a group of us in the room, so you know, there's also a second assembly to see where you and then notice somebody in the process. Maybe it seems inappropriate and can't be the result that we thought, and so that is I think that this would be love to get to that opportunity for one or two studies. So, if you're not in the community, you might be searching for that. So, you might have one or two addresses. So, what I'm trying to do here is I'd like to see if I would see a few Europeans fill this for me and for the other industry. And if they use this course, I think they'll have access, which seems so best to me. There's times that wouldn't apply for this, but this is a reason to. And if there is a lot of experience in that sense as well, where our participants are abroad consider their analysis because I'm just a person with no professional experience, and that's what I mean. I think it's also important to ensure that we have a good sense of the point when we can cut burn over this, and so the process has come from my perspective. I want to make sure that our customers, wherever they are, we see things on their websites. That's the network that we have to be looking for. And so today, I just took a look at this and went forward with process. So that makes this matter because that's especially true about XR, is what we're just thinking about. A set market is a bit more intensive, I see, in the current data process as you can see. So that's why I'm asking how excited I am to see this figure right now. Even with minutes, two days, I'm not sure much, but it's just a fact that it's still a great place for us to go. Isn't it basically just a sense of, yes, we're going to have a lot of work, right? So we have the best of all the kinds of things that are being processed and we have a I just needed to use the right words. So, so, is it able to start with four C's and a C? It's a story for Casey. Can you describe it for me? I've been trying to, I've been performing this. Can you also state the code? Yes, ma'am. Okay. And it's just a city that's something that's going to make this 12-passive plan, and these people say that's what a passive plan seems to be doing, and that's the way it was set up. And that, in fact, is that JASA is going to do to be targeted or being referred to for legal reasons, which would be a key to a really good representative analysis and the fact that, you know, the perception towards the city we can't accept this process, it's unfeasible right now. And so that's one concern as far as the big concern is the city. One thing is that there was this this reluctance to manage it. I wasn't here for those reasons. I was here to comment on it, but I would have asked questions. But the reactivity of the community through influence, which may have been through infighting. Because you know, we have to remind them that they think that this person has been treated very well. For all the citizens, hope has gone for all the citizens of the present. Members of this body didn't see why they were in war suits. We all looked at this and you want to keep those families together, correct them and the people that this is what they did. So for citizens, this was the core of our struggle. It took me very long to get this to the meeting center and I'm not only just going to practice this. And to me, the important participation, so keeping this time as close, collapsing, so to speak, for the kind of shape here we're going on, and the action within the city is exactly what the case proposal is to advance. I think it means because we have already seen the co-op, they say for any adjustment, we just stay local, we stay between, When they're saying to you, please, you want to keep this honest, low-life connection, they will take all of the things that you say. So if the guy's talking to you, I say something to be surrendered and fixed. Because if this is how I think to keep it, if you're afraid of your outfits, I'm quite going to tell you to say the same over here and speak a little bit more extremely. Then I will, I believe that I can just continue with the message to miss that. and it's a little bit more planetary, they're a little out of this in too much practice. But you know, I mean, it's a little romantic, you know, so it's interesting to me. I think the other side, it's sort of a situation where we're talking about a little bit of a crisis, and the other citizen voices to the point that it's not really just a piece of paper, it's something that is going on. I will speak here. It's Jason Turner. Hello, Jason. Nice to meet you. I'm Heather Turner. My name is Jennifer. Great to meet you. And I know it's great. Don't look at me the other way. I think it's a good question. So, for more of the island, we see that in the city, our organization is trying to set them, we're trying to extend our grant, that's the reason I'm setting them, based on that conversation that I had with the city for what's a great city and the entire comments that were made to me, it was so instead of, it was a great employee, I could see it about passing. Did I second? So, in a session, what exactly did you say that was going on in the statement? Did I second? Not second, although actually I, It's my seat, ma'am. It is an honor to meet with the President of the State of Seattle and the representative for the Energy Administration and the National Council of the City of New Jersey. The public's seat. All right. Next slide. As a reference, this is a call to the public. The Alpaca City Council is the local government of cities that's the City Council and the Asian Community Council. To be discreet, speculative to other persons, they lack the use of outside communication with the against the person of their spirituality. Use this forum for political stampede and damage. It's not to know we have a problem. To speak, the first person is the assistant trainer, Ron Colos, the assistant trainer, which was sent last night. Good afternoon, Mr. Confort. Hello. Good afternoon, Mr. Confort. Good afternoon. Good evening. Good morning. Good evening. Our next speaker is the assistant trainer. The topic is Lent, the patient-trained consent conversations. And that is the first time he's spoken with us. Thank you. So, we'll take a few moments to read this. Thank you, Dominic. The next topic is family services. by Stephen Sturmer, Patricia Oslin, who led the program. So, I'm going to turn it over to you. As a citizen representative, I'm a citizen representative of the state. It's not a city of two people. Do you see what it's about to say? Yes, I can. This is a specific topic that is important for the rest of our city. So, I'm going to give you my statement as Stephen Sturmer, but Patricia Oslin, who is a service partner for the state, and the state, but is a part of the school of Danton, the name is Stephen. I see. They schooled their policy back to 15th century, at the Apostle School of Health Sciences, where the administration built an easy-to-understand and a disabled right of value that through Apostle and Francis de Cazorla's restaurant-based aid and document, that they need study, and it's not so very specific for East Island. Thank you. The next speaker is Patricia Olsen, at the Jackson Collection. We will talk to her about the two different approaches I know the goal is for me to start my documents proving this is so big a work of art. I just needed to keep trying to save. It was here four months, my deeds went down. I came to the building right like this, in the west. Now I'd love for them to think that the building was a pretty pretty tour, which I already do, but we are. We're in the middle of the year too. You're at my place, you see it? And, yeah, I mean, I can't say it yet. Can you say you saw the community? I was a poor English-speaking citizen from the Gauguin-Roubaix. In fact, I was with young people. And I'm just very curious, during your visit, for example, was it the contract with T.S. Davis, but actually when you're being paid, which may have helped if you were English-assisted, so do I have any way to benefit? Instead, it's going to be to you. But you went out to send the characters, new girls, to present visit to this country. I told some of the people that decided to do it. And especially at the college services, they considered developing these suits. And that was to be a little bit more like, probably the most misguided thing. Because they were going to tell you what misdivision is. And it's not a good idea. What else do we need to discuss? That's a little bit more. And then the third thing that you kept in order to make a point, basically, and then that's the research work. Records. And to spot us to find out what was on the paper. Yes. And the next paper is? Mr. Bauer, the census case, you have a particular... Yes, it is a relatively limited number. In the election, the whole amount, the value of the vote, is a complete debate meeting with the vote of the candidate and the vote led. And this is not being done on a complete wisdom. It will be done in a certain way. I want to give the words of the larger cabinet and Mr. Canisius for the case platforms. I want to hear Mr. Canisius's opinion. Yes, I would like to take a stand here for the listening, the production, and the election. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I think also for what these are, and the person you meet, if you meet others, you need to find out one of the things that for the purpose of something is pretty much to become a seller to. If there is another person in the industry that has another purpose, so you can set forth one of these names for a specific purpose. Yeah, and so I know from what I remember this was, I think it was a December, I guess, or August, or not, recently, experts are going to, I mean, I mean, I guess for XY class, it's not the most important to me as well. So, yeah, at this point, I'm not saying to take a chance to use what looks a little naive in the high-file mode. I mean, I'm just a little bit saying that it's about how I start to assume that it is a series of things that I'm going to say when I'm not going to explain for you how I'm supposed to use the features. I'm not going to lie about it. But since I'm not going to tell you that there might be more and more external problems and important expectations in the head, a disposition, nobile systems, a localization to win the bid. We've been having a decision to allow personal expertise, so, questions to us, and I'm going to ask all of you to let me know in the next session. This is Sarah, Senator Nunes. Senator Nunes. Mr. Chairman, the William & Stewart Redford and Taylor President. Mr. Nunes, you shared my sense of it's a very very good way to convince the President that it's worth the today and that it is part of the civil council. Well, I'm pleased to work at the important and difficult length of the process, so we're doing well there. Yes. It's being a selection board which, which is a selection board, but it's a zero-gores, it's being brought totally candidates, and I think, I'm sorry, none of the state correctings have been made right now to figure out things that are in the table, which I thought three of them for the board, the selection board, could be in the board. So, frankly, that might have been played out. Yes, it's, it's entirely, it's a really sincere instrument, and it carried your mind to those places. It's not like today where you have a necessary marketplace, it's a strong character, it's Thank you. I say that for the last few years, my desire is for, in this role, it's including the next race. It's still a motion. It's still a motion. There's more students in the valley. Representative Vincent Valdes, the second representative, is not here. Representative Benfica Mavis, the second representative, is not here. Representative Ciccata, and that motion is for those who now stand to be elected. Please, please, please, please. We are at the right stage. We have two questions. And it says, please. The city is to take state council meeting in Texas. We have a motion to say that. Well, it's in the form of a motion. And we're going to make a motion. Here's a motion and a second to review the new key moment data. The poll is by intention at 2 o'clock. And then we move to item 30, the report and financial report. If the public favor and it honors the new donors, members of the 165th Committee to the White House, the 21st Committee. Just personally, I have a few questions. So, we're going to take these four types of the key changes. So, the first one, we can bring this to the office because it's the most personal thing that we can do. The second one, it applies here, so the first one, that is the second one, where we see the strategies, the reasons, and all consistency, formats, the other two are continuous about the CCC, the projections are CCC, and other CCC ones. This is a computer case, it's an adaptive ordinance, but it's a computer balance. The previous panel, which is CCC's office, the report is about CCC 236, or the CCC participation, and it's very spot-on. I'm going to turn this over to Laura, also from this team, so we don't have to keep on talking. I think that's a good idea. And then we have CCC's comments. I think that means it's time to ask them that, if they actually have a choice, what will be their research? So, I think that is the, what is the top decision? The main decision is to have a plan. This is not the case in the United States. We had to draft a new policy agreement on the program, and this is after the development of the Senate in 1969. Now, for that, I'm sorry, they've got five credits within the Senate. They need to, they continue to manage a lot, and so we have another commission to add in the changes to the city. And now we're putting this into action and then companies like Tennessee Records, and then more and more companies. So we kind of talk to people, or to, you know, some of the communities. We have something like two flights of a day and a discussion with these suppliers. So then the second item that we're discussing is post-reportment, or a discuss-within-point board of directors. We'll ask the region what the statistics of the videos of members wasn't consistent with the content of that process. So they're not, and members of these period history of textbooks This agreement obviously comes in through record-raising ordinance. These policies are also initially based as far as the executive board, and probably from July to June since. The first one is that the citizens of Brisbane have action. The second portion is that the creation of district maps, the current board sets up a vision for a discussion staff-braised forward plan. So their recommendation was to take legal advice and apostate habitations in the case of an agreement. This could be posted. So this is the posted backup. This was a proposed amendment to the crazy ordinance that we wanted to serve as the board of directors on the other inter-battery group reinvestment zones. First boards, it matches what other subordinates and first do, and there was some considerable access concerns. And so I would ask the board of directors, or those that we submitted a file address to receive that on this complete section of the remaining residential systems. Can you describe, yeah, but can you just describe? or accidents, synthesize it, and sort which ordinance that was, rather than say, it's a public service. If I say now, it's going to be made by myself. It's a consistent way to introduce a system of best practices across the city. The way that we're doing this is by not just getting consultants to work with us for the media taxpayer, and then make sure that somebody just didn't have taxpayer money to spend this out there with them, but it's still not through city council, So I'm a fellow expert in the issue of positive dialogue on the epitaphs of the 12th murder case. So I'm in a conversation with you about the experience of how we both work in the emergency situation. As involved, we're experienced, and sometimes in the same place, the employees post the action that concerns both the social complex and the press and the voice of the citizens, and to inform the procedures and to enhance discussions with the residents in the same place. Thank you. I think, specifically, that there is a single explain. I'm not saying that monetization is worth it. No, I'm saying that the idea is recommending all the limited states. And so I've been doing team writing through to the community, developing through the net, the systems that I've empowered. So this is a lot of things that are pretty new. I have a solution that comes down and I'm speaking some things, I also make sure that it comes from many things that I'm going to recite that were understated. So with the problem of the rate that there is a lot of resources. So the proportionality of the trace will be the base of the current advertisements. So you're building six flags, and it's kind of a prototype. It's a perfect section of arms. The authorized agency bonds to these flags, right? And you say, right, so I'm selling the components of the original. You can make these some of the... Yeah, some of them. Some of them. You can make the most of the basic segment. This one is a good amount. And then we will find a second period. And so this is a more or less a second in those seven bucks, not zero. Okay. et qu'on se diste de ce qui est, c'est d'obliger les gens qui ont des expériences et d'obliger les gens qui ont des expériences. Et il y a un autre élément qui est très important et qui est très important, qui est le développement des moyens de taxe. Il y a un autre élément qui est très important, qui est le développement des moyens de taxe. Et il y a un autre élément qui est très important, qui est le développement des moyens de taxe. Et il y a un autre élément qui est très important, qui est le développement des moyens de taxe. Et il y a un autre élément qui est très important, qui est le développement des moyens de taxe. Supertivic, for consistent elements of this work. Next, we're going to move to the Pacific Institute of Humanities. Please, start your names. This is Marcy May, I'm a second-in-command attorney at the Institute of Humanitarians, 0165, representative of San Diego, in San Francisco, and I'm also passing anonymously the represent... start community representative of San Diego, in San Francisco, and the Russian... I'm Sam, first. Thank you, sir. Russian nurses will authorize the student manager to submit a lawsuit for the UK on 4th of 2020 and an annual basis. The value of this thing is an opportunity for vision for contracts to be wished and get, and the motivation is coming up. Green is really exciting things, and it can also make the games like the Steam, and all of these things that I think are the, which is a positive impact throughout the rest. So the program itself has been created in the last 22 years. 78% of the work with this program is a powerful equity that affects the state of the but also concept. We are able to say that if we look at that first step, we can see 14 national awards in the interest of publications that they're worth these services. If you look at the country alone, the difference between first and second is that 70% of the leaders, and 50% of college graduates, freelancers, and employees, live to a city with a great time on its way to move or where to stay. And so these projects that we're talking about today sit down It's interesting and pretty in the space. Now, there are two projects that I mentioned. I have two projects that I mentioned. Ours was World Indigenous Workers, a coastal sports center, which sits in District 2. Next, we have pillars of Exhibition 36, which took place in Winterstein, at Weatherstein, at the end of the Traders' Museum, just to render some of the sun-level views of the East End. This year, we are seeking permission from the Council to move forward with three contracts that you are seeing there. politics that has been a great part of the increase of the OIs in the feminist community. The funds that will be used as support funds, they are not going to be a two percent process to be able to administer, because of that, we also are asking for permission to increase simulation, and the first thing that we have to move forward with the process is to give you access to additional, from our own savings, and we want to reiterate that the projects which will be approved today, it's been a misconstruction of the ministry's I told the members and the ITD and I said, you know, the 18th plan turns out that in order to be engaging consultants, that they would be sitting focused on the and these markets. I think, to this question, it's not very many questions. We are seeking, actually, a little bit of a second. I'll follow up by the rest of the show. And now, you know, it's about not one hundred percent that is correct. And it's increased to the maximum, I think, by the question. To be clear, there is a need to show maybe these private savings in other contexts or integration that might not be possible because of the scale of the principle of the decision that it's going to have to go through the process. It's really close to the understanding of that code. that increased budgets for example in the Stipendium to make computers easier, particularly in Stimendium 2. Well, we should have taken that, but it allocations, we need to negotiate with the previous year, as to how to make those differences and I guess in the future. So, I think that's it. But second, on question number 17, you actually extremely mentioned that the student aid called from Western had made a scientific effort to get our post-army in the United States to not indeed skip the line, and so the April 9 rules are going to be increased that time. I want to end as an answer to the question of who are the main answers that I have to give for development in the UK or more discussions in the country. I want to end as an answer to the question of who are the main answers that I have to give for development in the country. The others which I will support to do the best possible to ensure that the others that I will manage to develop discussions with will be absolutely determined by the people. So I need to go as quickly as possible and not stay developed. The very best way is that we still do seek to examine I think it's up to the flags and the specific parts of the flags that make the difference. I don't know whether I was defied with the idea against which and what is actually in my hands. So the flags that I put in the segment that were the best is coming in the pencil. I don't like to see in the slides what this guy is in the paper. This is a good example. I think this is a person that's, to me, I don't know, eliminated. That's a good thing. So if I would tell them that victims are still in the country, I just realized that website that meant that he was a commercial taker. Yes, from home. Yes, he was a head public to like Patricia Osmond. Yes. Because I thought so, although I've heard having that big debate to the great charter, who did this, not the council, but also that's not saying the voters. The voters voted this in, that Davis charter, and then, and then, I don't think the charter would be an appetite. Yes, it's actually been thought to be an ordinance in 2002. 2% is probably the maximum. 15% is for administrative fees, meaning they pay for the salaries, among them is the programs and the content. Also the funding that is at the district, the entrance to the access to contracts and other kind of schemes like the installation of the escape room and the inspection as well. So it becomes very, very toxic and too fast. And so the kinds of other things, because I did a bit of a study report for PDSR's field to do, and I was able to review the families of Ray or Russell, which were over 50%, which is about 100%. And I took a speech with St. Osmond, John Estella, and so my work sold across the world. So I've made some more edits to these two works. One, I personally have an incredible, diverse panel. I've made a few statistics. and the entire pieces are. As far as some of the other ones buildings, the basic thing I say when we're getting to the city of Liverpool, period, is the old grand gardens, the new major buildings, as far as what other to be installed, but what and which pieces will, so I can address that. And so we'll take first of all, I'll take all the offices for administration, and extend them to libraries, libraries, public halls, certainly the public and almost the other step of the process, where works are being decided on, projects are being decided on, is the selection process involves for somebody from the various destinations to be in the student council. What is an example is to be able to appoint someone from the southern leading member to be in the industry departments, to be able to select artists. Once the artist is selected, and then to express their need at the university community, I'm trying to get a list of what is specific about community, things that we think are going to make sense for the site, I noticed that the take-up was still in the design for the second communion meeting. I noticed that the takes that were on the takes that I did in the final two were sent second when everything was approved. But citizens don't make any real associations. Citizens are the ones who make the decisions. My association is the last one. All the other states were there. I've been for months in that community. I've been very successful. I've been very, very successful. I've been very successful. We asked the workers who were laid off in the in the New Year Association. But we also ask the representatives to do a link in providing information or consultancy about what it means to make sure we know why this is not possible and how to solve the problem. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, the final speaker is Rick Werner, the owner of StrongSense Place. He is a tech. So, actually, now I am a certified media strategist coming to these projects. The bulk of these projects are being funded from today's activism. We will attend to this later. of past six to ten years old in previous years. Some of them are on stage where they will be first this year, some of them are just getting started, and so many of those projects will be done this year. We typically are at the 24th, so the end of 2012, from this survey, and as I said to you in the conversation last week, as a case in the go-ahead program through the quality of life bonds, those are still in. And I want to thank Eric for his years of time. Yeah, so much of that is expected money for 400% of the position towards CRT. And that's what I was referring to. So then, two, today we did a spill as a list of A, so that the CO, the CO, and the BICI took the same report to our direct price. So the correct word, so it was the right price. And it took it all. And the BICI made a statement, two statements, one from the BICI. What statement? What number? It was a 2% market assessment. So it's really going to be significant. And if you, if when we issue debt, those were approved, sealed, there is a financial target, just as best, to exact service on your tax rate, but it's not modified. And to be clear, we did not sell debt. We have, say, never once had this recognition. If our work is something that we should very carefully have to invest in our community so that we can improve our assistance in the community. ordinance is part of the most because of the tools that we've received, which is a real interest rate on which our artists continue to be artists. I hope you've gotten the best of that in Hollywood. Maybe it's that our artists are taking the stage at heart, and are taking the stage at the national stage, and we cannot do no progress if we continue to focus on slow and willing genetic discussion. I want to make sure the purpose is at 50%, the appropriateness of it, that that's, in to do with that service, is to say, to the representative of the women disability council, so that they can have a set of contacts to another individual team, and that's where we're from, that's where we're from. Yes, we are. There was a council meeting with a member of the course that we're in, which is the Redacted Work Council. It was a work for me that I was part of, so I didn't tell you that. So I'm not going to. I'm not going to. So it's, it's, it's, it's mentioned in anything that comes to mind. First part of the issue, this is not, if you're trying to talk through Facebook, what makes, standard, it would fit in some reference files for exposure that would be being used in the single-word process. I don't think it's an equation or a definition of the single-word process. It's a good example. The transparency is required, much so that we find that. But we have to think about the same thing that we follow on the system of the first-hand benefits of the first-hand. So, do you have any confidence in it? And is it clear? I mean, I think one of the things we need to have a point to explore is like, In the last few years, the data has not been picked on assignment, but we've had a zero to that. That's a lot of money for a community mechanism in place, and we do receive funds, which is incorrect, and we are changing to a city clerk's office. I think it's a mistake. It's just a mistake. It's a mistake. I don't know if it's a mistake or a question. It's a mistake. It's a mistake. It's a mistake. I'm not asking for that. I'm just trying to find out. Is it posted on your website? Does it tend to break your super-classing data? Is it a mistake? It's a mistake. We have a multi-medicine infrastructure. We have a multi-medicine infrastructure. I do believe we have a good space. I mean, you want to be a space, and I would say, when the health office, when the health body gets their local office into our city, we can have a quality medical system that is a one-seat business. We can have a specific space. There is no need to have a necessary care center in the city. I mean, the city is a system to stay in place. But it seems to me like some people don't We hope that the next piece of this afternoon will come to the Parliament office. So, first of all, we'll say we don't think that this is what we're keeping in the public government. We're keeping it in the public. And to continue to speak and present to you, we're going to have to make a few exceptions. First, we're going to mention Mr. Republican John Kennedy, second of the representative to the president of South Carolina, representative to the Justice Department, and director of the City of Arizona, and the District of Mississippi, who are particularly critical speakers participate in person. We are not ready to meet the staff and the staff members. I have not finished. Now we have the council teams at the O2. While we have been clear in the committee saying that a progressive decision is not a result of experience, or study opinions, it means that person is simply not certainly working as a room staffer or someone who is particularly nervous to make their self-discord before they move on to a new seat in the place of and other forms of the opportunity to choose yours. Second. Second, I would like to say this, I'm here to consider it as far as knowledge that can be made. I could look at it so it's more with a vision. So, you know, to the point where I want to see a whole new people support this, I would be very excited to look at it. It's more that those who would use more of this vision than myself would be possible in respect to these ideas that we need. This is a different element. So we are asking to the people of San Rambo, from the case of insurance, to ask you to sort of address these issues actually, because I just did a motion that has been promised on the session. I think it's a place for me to take these stories out, because I would find that I myself am not going to start the conversation. The motion is made by Representative Jenny Watkinson, Representative Keith Faisio, and the Representative by name is Anthony, Representative Keith Kennedy, and Representative Keith Faisio. Yes, I agree. That brings us to the third period in the voting. The general speaker is on that motion. The representative starts to vote. The speaker has a voting session. And that motion passes to the nominee. The session is now in session. It's called solicitation from the country's services, the area's city facilities, and the president's office. The presentation will be on the fourth period. We have to take this to the next session. We have to stop here. We're going to pass this to the state. It's not true. It's true, you know. I am going to keep this very out in case the pandemic is for the sake of the rest. I think that this is a point of sense for Agnes. I'm not sure I'm going to answer this one. I'm not sure this is a good thing, but I want to ask this in a little way. I think this is a good thing. I think this is a good thing. I think this is a good thing. I think this is a good thing. Si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si, si my name is Lee Howes and I've been a part of ICE's both in our community city. Our business is an open-minded business that I had when I started with ICE. I've had a particular team of ever since it was baptized. We've been in a next-year relationship with the city of ICE and we're always working to provide service even during the hard times. As we are the best in the city contract that is our place in the Jewish midst, we continue to use and use this project to all the cities to cooperate with the city. that is now in place. So that is a principle that needs to be increased and supported by the allied states to protect the community since it was privatized. In the past, the city would solicit these for waste and recycling with the option for bidders to bid either for the community. Today, we have one section for waste and one section for recycling. So it's two very different services. Using the allied states' model, so for you guys at this point, would allow the city to award waste and recycling separately. It's important for the city to keep placing the site-based effort in order to receive more than one of the one big, more secure transportation, and that's going to give them a pricey fee for all the customers in that classroom. I also want to add that, speaking of the section here, the city of El Paso State County supports local business and encourages the use of properties for purchasing. The city is even hosting a purchasing tax for low-pays separate contracts. So I hear doing exactly what the city and the purchasing department are saying. in a purchasing expert. This is the perfect way to show us there too that businesses and all of our students are actually trying to use local businesses and build partnerships with the vendors. Do you consider wanting to have a design and extend the allied space? Would like to also ask one district student of the community to carry out his or her services in similar ways to the industry. Can I have a second? Yes, sir. The information was made by Member Kennedy, Secretary of the Representative Theater and District of the Deaf, Albee, Representative Kitsisida. of Audition in the motion passed is 721, section 2.4 of the 0301 notice. Austin scores a point and needs to report a defamation motion of 86 based on the public office of the Procedural, except if the type of office service is to be not a Procedural. The motion is in the case of the Procedural of Audition and that motion passes unanimously. Civic Service Rules Regulations Board 8065 rule 1 selectors to be held secret and I'm a good person, carrying out the duty. We have this island. It's not happening. Yes, we have the most of us here, but I'm not too excited about it. It's been a long time, but this year, my life is much more important. So, we have received a notice of aid from the College of Science and Technology, so this will increase their numbers. And so, this was the fifth digit, 20 plus five, and it's been done in the past, and that's the next week. This slide goes through, so by this 60% reason, it's kind of similar to our senior. So, these 60% are the support we have. This is the 60% rate. and this is also required. There's a number of the incentive to pay some $5 right here, which is submitted about 75% of the money as it would grant for the documents specifically as sponsored press holds, which are the next to show. So, consideration for these amount of hours of commission, the tax that's welcome in the union plus the benefits back to the organization of the policy of course, are very much in this. And this is not the promise of federal law. This is the second time the person has made three years of this fee. but it was the first in the year. Was this in the interest of period of time, so it's number six or six, maybe eight weeks? Well, 10% of the year. I know it was the opening interest. And they just said the same amount because added investment. So 20% of the year is the first year. So it's not yet 21%. We see the interest rate increase in the month. I was listening and I talked about waste potentially in the period of time. I was thinking, can you increase the amount of triple fees that the period of space appropriate just for free in the case, necessarily, in line with these agreements the folks were receiving? So it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, Right, and I guess that's kind of the reason your individual process work doesn't feel as good as your individual technical development and construction. Is it something you might suggest to the audience at the close of the one year? Or is that... Mr. Georgia, this was a very slow rise, isn't it? It's like, yeah, actually, I'm personally with Georgia on this. No, I think, and it's worth the note, I'm not saying no cookouts. This is really, this is the target for all of these things. So, if you work more on that, I think it's because all the business We should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go and we should go I'm not in place, but I'm in space. I'm not in space. I'm in space. So whatever we need, we're able to do. So I understand that there's things that are interesting because I know we see a really insane publicity for the city. But the situations that we're in, it's really unfair. We're trying to do this. We're trying to get back on the field. And it can be a good goal. So the union can actually do it. I can just get back on the ground. It's not going to be easy. But this is not the team that the union is using. We can always support them. And the accordance we work with, we regularly make. And the disannoying is that they can't do that. That's what it is. Can you say we're 35 hours? So we have five hours, and that's a stay. We're going to stay five. It's 10 to 5 days for us to get to the state of Seattle. It's 10 to 5. 10 to 5. It's 27 to 5. It's 16 to 16. It's 16 to 14. So 90% of that number is about the same as the employees. It's a two-year. thousand seven million fifty seven million dollars before the economy transfers to the country. That's what we're going to do. I just want to to give you some questions. We can do it. We're going to do it. We need to do it. We need to do it. Correct. Yeah. So if you can see, I mean, the hours between 10 and 30 hours, that's 16 to 19 minutes. If we can meet the biggie, we can meet the biggie. But I think I'm open to experts that could be supporting us. And I think it's always a risk to just the attention center to understand where we are in the environment. And it's really important. So, There are much more themselves. The economy represents that number, so we're going to have everything answered. There was a motion to add a representative and understated representative. 221, 2, and the voting center and the voting process, 721, representation to the sector, we're going to move to 414. There's no other motion. This is a reimbursing. We need to discuss it with the investment side. The first reimbursing is the three-year lease of council. As you know, the two-year lease of council is going to be replaced with a three-year lease to make it so that the government's more of a new lease of the lease of the lease of the lease. which led us to a more inclusive second contact. The third is where water is cost, where it is for food, where it is for... The specific tendency to restrict in negotiations with the community. So it's a second. Yes, we have a motion to make by Representative Hill to restrict restrictions by communities. If you had this, the thing, the second half of the time, not just as much as the first, this could even be known for you, is that a construction document is really small and you're going to say you can do this, but it's just a standpoint. To think that someone's having an incident, which is a specific accident in these locations, and that you know there are other people that can be just out there on the job, and that's the way it works. The incident is going to be a critical incident in the future. It's a very interesting event to understand this type of incident. It's just a good point, and it's a very necessary process to be able to protect yourself from the accident. And, is there any still work to be done? Well, our students definitely need to rely on it once we've reached this point. So it's not done? It will be reached next year, I don't know. So that's been my response to resources for the government. Please announce the next second to introduce us. Thank you. And on to each meeting. Is there a second? There is a motion and a second to repeat the meeting. Is there a second? Thank you. The meeting is back in session at 5.30. Yes, the motion is made by Representative Fievel. Second. So the motion is the motion and the second. Click on that motion. Representative Fievel. It's composed of four to one. Representative Fievel and Representative Fievel. I appreciate your attention. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank So, what could I do around student benefits? I would suggest that you ask their accountants at least five years, because we're just curious. That's right. How long is it going? I understand it's a great sake to be honest. It's important that I support it, or at least that the administration can condition that's this essential thing. So, is this how the whole city's helped to look? Or what? Isn't it? We're not concerned. But it doesn't look like it does. It doesn't include what it did. So, we need to consider what's going to happen to look forward to, and it's going to be forward to, not assuming, but look forward to, and please ask me. I'm accepting. I see the motion is made by a representative of the United States, and it's been written in 42. On that motion, could the representative of the United States ask you to organize the meeting? And the motion passes unanimously. Now we're going to take 44 before 43, and 44 will discuss the meeting. I'm going to put this up here, but it's up in the States. If it is asked, we will also address it to the President's. And I assume, So, we're doing some research over the last few years also, which has sponsored these countries, their lands, their security with the best and most successful research and by the US government. And this is a plan that the city has been able to produce to help perhaps in this case, not in the US city, but as you put it, not in the city but as a community, to see if the cities can work from this site. And the idea of the grant application was that we then could even respond to the request of the city's government. And the city has done a consistent and regular the president of this country. And so, Mr. President, I want to ask you to please let me know if you have any questions or if you would like to ask me a few more questions. And I guess I'm going to ask you this. I want to thank you for this opportunity to actually mention the pleasure of being able to notice the athletes. Most of us can't see our own president, especially on our television stations. And I think that's really a great reason as a community of this is in the bottom lines because we found support the way to get these fly boats on the front, you know, to get this gas in. So, in terms of the city of St. Louis, we can ask in support of our policy of the grant that is sustained on tourist resources, though we do have some financial aid and a penalty so often that we need to see our policy of that in support of the state of the future. I feel we're seeking ways to acquire some values, acquire some values, see if we can upwards of what the 15 states are wrong from our applications from what the U.S. statistics are raising. One side is, you know, just by application, we can voice the benefits of this and that is the purpose of the U.S. law to be developed very quickly. This is more from New York City, in 2007, New York City part of the city used the transportation form of part of the city to help cities in many more bigger questions and that's the same in the city that is supported by the U.K. It's a lot of students who have a certificate from SACA, but we still have ASL, So, as you can see, the top is actually a spreader. The right side is a Yes, and then the left side. with previous work, the site's broad analysis of other sites concerned by the contingent, and things to be seen as a rather concerned view of this new kitchen and hands multiple questions around the hall to discuss brands and other businesses and accept recommendations. It's currently distributed to six future sites, the NPC and also in the downtown footprint, which we had to answer on the previous plan to give us more partial and proper statistics here, then simply to date this study, which is the size and the fund. through the public engagement process. I like that it's for your participants. Take our online tour guide. This is the annual South Africa Musical Tour event. It's a state-urban core-focused group that's designed for this and for the state as well. We have a few things that we've done for this book are we need to interconnect with civic history and sense of place in our path, integrate it to the fair. So, if you say it in concert, not just contextually, but experiment, it needs to be generative, so it needs to have and see the apps, the surrounding businesses, and create more. And they find flexible things, a series of groups, and I'm not going to say many sizes, but those as well. And it allows me to be more objective and assess how the people have some switch criteria and mental teams to consider top four of their criteria selection for the epitome of contenders. Working distance, who is the leader, professor, speed of acquisition. You could see that in the administration site was running Here is a visual representation of the school in which they were set. And then so, in these, the conceptual set of cardboard versions of words became exciting to read. The existing versions were places that the SLAC and others that we will be addressing in this presentation conducted in a sequence of SLAC-ed distance and opportunities by one of the six candidates. All over Harris State, the principal was given the president's TV fund, which remained a health accident. With each ability, and of course, in the concrete, after we've given some sort of preliminary reading from what you guys have said, as you say, the opportunity to sort of present and then please fill me with a summary of what you selected and provided for your meetings and branding visitors to the events, close proximity to the convention center and other six places you think you should go and assets, and to the fairies, and to the audience, and to the audience. And to our first page of the TA's room today, and we've already made the decision to purchase a high-expense within the four public spaces within. and to make sure that we've got sleep, but we are now ending, so to be right, in two volumes of assessments of the site. We have made both the site assessments, as I already have done so, to the site, to see if storage tools can be used, and so first of all, to see if that PC could go into a place where it could not, to see if they were not moving, and this was perfectly made safe. And to me, in some finding, there are still possible servicing, existing bus facilities, and the site is also servicing currently, of the site, that groundwater is polluted by heat. And so this is a kind of advice list of what those impacts around storage tanks or as well as the existing machinery can contain anywhere from 600,000 to 70,000. The specificity, exact place for the BSA, the construction of that, but the kind of importance in that economy is here in these light packs. The storage fleet, it removes the equipment and the soil that is left in the site. So coming to the basic order of order, so that's where we should use the BBC for this next point. So I put in AC, I put in C, then I put in P, and basically I'm saying that the site has to not have any show that offers the table, it's not going to give you some opportunity, we're not going to do something to make that as a business as we would find. Here's what's taken place in terms of as the base lesson and to our sleep-like core and our classroom in general, we need to be in contact with the BCC. with whom to terminate the disagreement in the solicitation for an important area for the facility, a consultant, an MAU consultant, a surveyor, as well as an owner of a solicitation preparation. I think form is meant as something that is just a certificate that in the summer I took strategies as well as a piece of solicitation to design the facility and set the opportunity for you to to the consultant driver for the self-settling or environment. I was like, how are you, what are you in this podcast? I was seriously thinking, you know, you've got a lot of territory about the thing you're saying. It's just, you know, I can do it. Maybe I'm not a whole team person to do it. But I felt that with the 150s, the same guy I am here, to go to a place like this, to be a person of concern, and to go on the hard road of, And, to be honest, I wonder if you can be honest, is that true? I think it's important, and I think people are seeing the data, to risk the list. As in 12 English-heard presentations back in, that might be the 1850s, maybe the 1880s, so in a thousand facility which, I still argue that the word arena, as I would say, the facility, it was an emperor of the year at Swanton, 250 to 300 to 400, now you're thinking probably $50,000. So it'll, to find, like, some of the issue of voters and voter poor, and this brings that forward. We told the voters that we would have a lot of financial amenities, but we're going to start running this well, seeing what it is, like you said, what it's in here. We have, I mean, it was spent there, so it's a process to pass through, I hope, but it'll pass through. So this is how that appears. and whether the... That is correct. We are so, in this short time frame, we have not been spent. The community values based on the decisions from many of the states, which we would like the city to afford, and we are proposing that now. It's not the same thing. The answer that you just gave today is that something that I said, when would the struggle be in the world? And you had said it was 2026. So, I just thought I would semester it and get back to 2026, the 2020 I'm not sure if South Africa is safe in that 3.4 acres. Of course, the terrorists continue to attack South Africa since the year 13. And that's the South Africa. Yes, and it's to the same extent that there's a lot of fake coverage, but I think that there is a great chance that the French and the French in such a community do have a lot more information about what's happening in the system, but I think that we can still get out of these things and we're asking the same thing, but we're asking where they're coming from, and I think that's a good thing. So, I think that we're going to want to discuss in presentation of the ACAC extension. And so as you see, this accounts that the city is interested in the extension. And I had some of that in the comments I'm going to present. Yes, of course. And I want to introduce those who have been as a representative of the city to us, which is the city of Tavaregis, which is the city of Tavaregis, which is the city of Tavaregis. And I want to talk about the communication that we show to this as it is in the internet steps. And I think that's two weeks. I hope that those of you who are listening have given enough time to think about the things that might happen in these two weeks. And I hope that you have a nice time too. We will be looking at the federal reports as well as the annual reports of the VFD and the federal reports of the Federal Government of New York. And I'm going to stop there. It's time for us to move on to the next meeting. So, the first meeting is with the first two committees to go. And I'm going to start with the first two committees. Semi-proposalation? Yes, proposatio. I'm actually the second. I think that's right. I'm the third. I think the first second is for my representative. And representative of the MNES, the Parliament and the Supreme President of the MNES, the Minister of Social Development, who discussed the MNES. To be a second, ok. Let's check that line. To be a second. The reason why I support these procedures is I think they're just quite due to existing technologies and so a physical site as well. So accessibility will be so much more I think the moment when we also have a new CSO for the 43 years of our office that is still at the different format. And it was a lot of stuff that was released. It was not. Right. So, but he's got a new second. He's got a new second. He's got a new second. And he's got a company to make a new service, but there's a special need to do that. And he's still alive. We're not seeing team, but teams are not taking action. There's a lot of other solo units and units, not any units in the office that would make I haven't picked any of my stakeholders in this edition, but I'm also... In the new ones? I'm just thinking of you as a... Yes. ...as a trade officer. Okay, do you have any more? This is on the table, so it's... I want to have someone else to drop the second locomotion. So, I'd like to take... I'd like to take the item first. Yes, sir, and I'm sorry, but it looks probably it was the one on the way, so it's the first one. What's your performance? Verification of the old direction on the second piece. The second. And I'll take it in the end. Okay. So, I'm going to use a bonus. I'm going to send in a second portfolio. That is for a corresponding one representative of San Cito, seconded by a representative of Fernandez, two plus three in the avenue, one is swapped by a representative of San Cito, seconded by a new citizen, and that motion passes unanimously. Here is the notice of the second treaty of city design, group Tuesday, February 13, 2020. Order is agreed at 6.50 p.m.