cameras we can make sure everyone's here i believe we're just missing representative rivera but we do have a quorum mayor if you'd like to get started please i appreciate that thank you for that yes sir good afternoon this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday february 16 2021 it is 3 30 p.m due to the pandemic the texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the texas open meetings act
 to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings in physical locations mayor lisa is present and presiding and we begin the meeting with roll call mayor pro tim shortsvine present representative anello present hernandez i'm here molinar present salsido rodriguez here rivera president lisarraga presence
 Thank you. Council, please make sure your cameras are on during the duration of the meeting to ensure a quorum is maintained. Please notify me if you need technical assistance. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor and wait to be recognized prior to unmuting your microphone. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones when not speaking to reduce any background noise. Mayor, we do have a quorum.
 Thank you. Thank you everyone for being here. I would like to start the meeting like I do every day with again with a moment of silence for all the people in our city, state and country. We are reaching 500,000 people that unfortunately have lost their lives to COVID-19. With the vaccine and a lot of things going forward, we actually have a lot of hope in our country and this world.
 With that, I'd like to have a moment of silence. Thank you very much. And with that, Ms. Prine, can we start the meeting? Yes, sir. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. MR. MOSS. MR. MOSS. MS. BRYANT I'D LIKE TO MAKE THE MOTIONS FOR REVISIONS. PAGE 10 ITEM 29 MOVE TO THE FOREFRONT OF THE REGULAR AGENDA AFTER FIRST REGULAR ORDINANCES PER CITY MANAGER'S OFFICE AND PAGE 12 ITEM 35 MOVE TO THE FOREFRONT OF THE REGULAR AGENDA AFTER ITEM 29 PER MAYOR LEISUR. THAT IS THE REVISIONS THAT I HAVE FOR TODAY.
 There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda with the revisions read into the record. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardo. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 8. Thank you.
 to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 27. May we have a motion? So moved. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsline. Yes. Representative Anello. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously.
 We now turn to page 10 to item 29 that was moved to the forefront. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title II, Chapter 2.92, Ethics of the El Paso City Code, in its entirety to clarify the rules and procedures related to the ethical requirements of city officers and employees by reorganizing the structure to create three articles to amend, clarify, and add definitions to define the jurisdiction of the Ethics Review Commission and to streamline the complaint process.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Carrie Weston, Senior Deputy City Manager. While IT's bringing up the presentation, I'd like to start by commending your appointed commission members. They were very invested throughout this entire process, spent a lot of time
 and really developing the proposed amendments that we're bringing to you today. So really proud of all the work that they've done and they're to be commended. We have the members of the commission who have joined the council meeting, as you can see on the screen here. So they're available following the presentation should you have any specific questions for them as well as staff. If I could bring up the presentation, please. Okay, go ahead and go to the next slide, please.
 So as a summary, the proposed changes encompass these five areas. The ordinance is reorganized to make it much easier to navigate. What we found in the original ordinance is that often the reader would have to jump between different sections of the document, which made it very difficult and confusing. There were several definitions that were amended to provide additional clarity, and some new definitions were added.
 Revisions were made to the Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct that I'll cover within this presentation. And the proposed changes also address the jurisdiction and composition of the Ethics Review Commission, and will address changes to the complaint and the hearing process. Next slide, please. So here's the organization of the proposed ordinance. It's essentially framed in three articles. Article 1 is the Code of Ethics, which describes the purpose, policy, and includes definitions.
 and the Commission's recommendations. Article 2 details all the standards of ethical conduct and Article 3 addresses the jurisdiction of the Commission procedures regarding the complaint hearing process as well as as the disposition. Next chart. And so the Commission amended several definitions that you see on this slide. They also added several new definitions that you see highlighted in bold and we've annotated each of these
 So in terms of the policy and purpose, language was added to the ordinance, giving the public notice that the ethics complaint process is intended for both residents and persons that are conducting business with the city and avenue to address unethical behavior. Additionally, we added language to affirm that although the process to hear a complaint and to determine disposition is administrative, a person has all the options available under the law outside of the ethics process.
 Next slide, please. So now I'll get into some of the revisions to the standard of conduct, next chart. So the recommendation is to remove this provision from the ordinance. I'll go ahead and read it. The officers or employees shall not knowingly perform or refuse to perform any act in order to deliberately thwart the execution of the city ordinances, rules, or regulations, or the achievement of official city programs.
 And the thought process on removing this language is that this language is so broad that it can be used as a catch-all if the filing of a complaint doesn't specifically meet the criteria of one of the defined standards of conduct in Article 2 of the ordinance. And so the commission felt very strongly that that was unnecessary and should be removed. We also brought it to outside counsel, and they concurred with the Ethics Commission's recommendation for removal. Next slide.
 So language was also added to clarify that officers and employees shall not acquire an interest in contracts, zoning decisions or other matters that can be affected by impending official action by the city.
 And language was also added that an officer or employee shall not intentionally or knowingly assist or induce somebody else to violate the ethical standards of conduct. So using somebody else as an extension to violate the ethics ordinance is in and of itself, it's a violation of the ordinance in the articles. Next slide. We also added clarifying language with subsequent timeframes regarding restrictions for lobbying or representing employees.
 before city council, a city board or department. You can see different levels of those with significant reporting or decision-making or advisory responsibility, and then the restrictions relative to time. In the previous ordinance, that wasn't broken out based on levels of responsibility or authority. And so the commission felt that it ought to be, and then you can see the subsequent timeframes with the restriction. Next slide, please.
 So now I'll address the changes regarding the jurisdiction and composition of the commission. Next slide. So a lot of discussion on this. The commission believes that commission members are allowed to participate in political campaigns, but recusal provisions are still applicable. I'll actually address that more specifically shortly in the presentation. The jurisdiction of the commission is hearing.
 of the law. The first one is the jurisdiction of the employee. The jurisdiction will be over the employee alleged violations of article 2 standards of conduct by
 And then a statute of limitations has also been added. Complaints must be filed within two years of the alleged violation. And in the previous ordinance there wasn't a statute of limitations. You can go back 10-15 years for an incident and file a complaint. Next slide please. And so the recusal language was added that if members engage in ex parte communications or in other words
 They're discussing the case outside of the public meeting of the commission. They must excuse themselves from participating in the hearing. Additionally, there is a recusal provision that's been added for what is deemed substantial participation in a campaign. And so that's defined by participating in fundraising.
 assuming a leadership role or contributing more than $500 to a campaign. So these are the parameters that the Commission felt should trigger a recusal from the hearing. Next slide. And then in terms of procedures, previously the Commission had to hear every complaint separately. So we've added a provision to consolidate complaints that involve the same incident or the same alleged misconduct. Next slide, please.
 And then the commission spent some time reviewing the complaint process to make that more efficient. So if you could go to the next chart, I'll go through the process and then I'll tell you what's changed from the previous ordinance to now. So when the complaint is filed, the city clerk has seven days to ensure it's filed as an administratively complete complaint. So the ordinance lays out all the administrative requirements in terms of filing the complaint itself. The city attorney then has...
 the commission. It takes about 14 days to ensure that it meets the jurisdictional requirements. And so the city attorney's role is just checking to make sure that it fits with the jurisdictional requirements of the commission, and then it's forwarded to the commission. The hearing is scheduled within 30 days, and the commission either dismisses the complaint or
 the hearing. So what's changed and what's made this process more efficient previously when a complaint is filed and the complaints forwarded to the commission, the complaint is filed and the complaint is forwarded to the
 the commission would do is it would set up a panel, a panel of commissioners that would look at the complaint and make it a determination of whether it was a legitimate complaint or a frivolous complaint. And so that took about, that's about a 30-day process. So the commission felt that instead of doing that, if the complaint meets the jurisdictional requirements, send the complaint to the entire body and the entire body can make that determination whether it's a frivolous complaint or not.
 as opposed to a panel. So that's one change. And then the second change is the rehearing provision in terms of evidence that may not have been available during the hearing but existed and it was presented within 14 days of the decision, they can have the potential they can request a rehearing. So those are the two changes to the complaint process. Next slide. Dr. Western, can you go back real quick?
 Yes, sir. I want to make sure you said city attorney and complainant 14 days and on the slide it says 21 days. Yes, sir. Seven days for the initial review by the city. Okay, I want to make sure. Yes, sir. And 14 days for the city attorney. Great, thank you. Yes, sir. Next slide, please. So after the hearing, the commission has 30 days to issue a decision and determine if there's been a violation. They may sanction through either a letter of notification
 the city council to submit a letter of admonition or a letter of reprimand based on the severity of their findings or potentially forward a recommendation to the city council for removal from office in accordance with Article 2 of the charter as well as Article 3 for a public hearing requirement for that type of hearing.
 And then the commission may also make a determination that the complaint is frivolous. And that's defined as a sworn complaint being groundless and brought in bad faith or for the purpose of harassment. And additionally, if more than one complaint is deemed frivolous within one year, the complainant will not be able to file complaints for the following two years. So that's a change. But the provision was added.
 that would be a good thing. And then the commission was very quick to discourage somebody who's clearly demonstrating the propensity to submit groundless complaints from not doing so. And so the commission felt very strongly that if someone files two complaints that are found frivolous within a year time frame, there should be that type of sanction. And I think that's the last slide. Next slide. And so really those I know that was quick, but those
 to the ordinance and we're available to address any of your questions, either the staff or the commission members. Thank you. Thank you again, Mr. Colonel Weston, for your presentation. Also, you're the commission, the council for the hard work. And I know this is how long you've been working on this?
 This goes back, you know, well over a year, Mayor. And I know that the commission's been back and forth with this document for quite some time. So I thank you all for the hard work. I do have Mayor Potem, Schwartzbein, followed by Representative Anello. Thank you again for the presentation.
 Thank you again, Colonel Weston, and thank you again, Mr. Marcus, and the other members of the Ethics Commission who spent so many hours, if not days, working on this week's
 I'm an entire lifetime relief for for these improvements. Thank you all for for that hard work. And thank you again, Colonel, for your leadership during these times. I just had a question relating to the frivolous lawsuits. I understand the intention of a sort of punishment if somebody were to come back with a sort of large amount of frivolous lawsuits over and over again, but
 How is it that we can legally, I guess, limit somebody's ability to file or to speak out?
 Well, I can let the city attorney talk. This is an administrative process, and the commission felt that if someone is bringing multiple frivolous complaints, in this case more than one, within a year time frame, they just felt very strongly that that should be put in the ordinance. People understand that it's a rule in the ordinance, and so if you're making allegations against
 on people they should be brought forward in good faith. And so, I mean, I can open it up to the commission members if you'd like to comment on that as well. City Attorney or City Attorney 2, that would be great. Thank you, Representative. I concur with Colonel Weston. We had a lengthy discussion with the commissioners about being able to deem a complaint frivolous. So it is not an automatic process.
 recusal or prohibition about filing ethics complaints. That is after a complaint is reviewed by the ethics commission. If they have evidence to believe that the complaint was found to be frivolous, then the commission has the opportunity to find that. But it's not an outright ban at the beginning.
 Okay. I don't know if there's anybody else wants to comment but that was the question I had. Thank you again for all the hard work. I know this is not really easy but we very much appreciate it. So thank you everybody on the committee for your help and thank you staff again. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Mr. Schwarzbein. Representative Schwarzbein and Representative Anello.
 Thank you. Thank you to the Commission. I have the, and Colonel Westman and Mrs. Neiman, I've expressed this to you. I have the same concerns as Representative Schwarzbein. I do, so a few questions about it, but my feelings are,
 I completely understand that we get frivolous complaints all the time. I understand that especially during campaigns, people really take advantage of this. But I do have a very solid concern that by limiting someone's ability to file an ethics complaint for two years, that you are limiting how they interact with their government. And I do have concerns that this could become a statewide issue that the state ethics committee
 Commission takes up, it could set precedent. And I have not been in a place where I feel comfortable that that is not potentially an outcome of this ordinance. And so unless you know you all have some kind of information that can really ease my concerns here I just don't think that I can support that.
 With that said, I do still have a question about what we deem frivolous. I know it would be at the discretion of the commission, but I do wonder if that should be put in writing somehow, if there should be a deadline for what is considered frivolous. I'm not an attorney, so Mrs. Neiman, I would take your advice on that. Yeah, so those are my two issues with what Representative Schwarzbein had brought up.
 So as to the first issue we've looked at the opportunity for people to file complaints. There is no constitutional First Amendment right to file a complaint. It is an administrative process and you're not being prohibited from filing a complaint against a member of council or.
 a member of this organization. The prohibition comes when you repeatedly file complaints that are groundless and in bad faith or brought for the purposes of harassment. And the commission spent a considerable amount of time discussing how and when that would happen
 And then as to your second point about adding or removing language. So the language has always been in the ordinance regarding the amount of publicity that a complainant would elicit as a result of a of a complaint as being part of the factors that this commission could consider. And then after further review and feedback from this council we went back and made that feedback to the commission and the commission felt that
 the better way to go about it is to strike any factors that they would rely on to make that determination, and then it would be on a case-by-case basis based on the information that was brought before the Commission. And then I'll let Mr. Marcus or Mr. Repke or Mr. Walker speak to that more. They were thoroughly involved in that process as well. This is Mark Walker. Go ahead. I have Mr. Walker, Mr. Marcus,
 They would like to talk, and they can talk in whichever order you guys would prefer. Mark, you go ahead first. Mayor, if I may. And we understand the concerns. We spent quite a bit of time discussing concerns.
 the issue of frivolous complaints. And in the end, what we attempted to do is to bring the ordinance in line with existing Texas law as it deals with frivolous lawsuits. And so that's where the language of groundless and brought in bad faith or groundless and brought for purpose of harassment was substituted for the existing language that listed certain factors.
 There's been a lot of case law developed over the last few decades on what this language means. And so it's easier for anyone, for example, who is
 either bringing the complaint or is the subject of a complaint to be able to refer to the case law or talk to the lawyer about what this language means because it's a certain term of art that's used in the rules of procedure and some other cases so it it's a the
 All of those cases depend upon the facts. It's, in general, very difficult to find that a lawsuit or a claim or a complaint are brought in bad faith and for purposes of harassment. When you do, the evidence is pretty compelling. So we believe that linking this existing body of law
 to this part of the ethics ordinance would make it easier and more predictable for people to understand that. And with that being said, this does bring it, it's consistent with the way that the courts handle either people who are repeatedly accused
 or bringing up frivolous matters in lawsuits or motions or different lawsuits or even what are called vexatious litigants. So the idea was to try to take this part of the ethics ordinance and make it consistent with what people would be able to expect in court.
 Thank you, Mr. Walker. That was really helpful. And that basis is what you were drafting language for what was considered a frivolous complaint, correct? Yes, ma'am. That's exactly correct. Okay. And so that makes a lot of sense, and that actually is very helpful on that, so I appreciate it. But in any of that research, in any lawsuit, tort law, is there anything about limiting someone who can file lawsuits who has filed multiple frivolous lawsuits?
 You can at some point you can limit the access by virtue of you have to you have to make certain steps certain findings along the way.
 at some point it's permissible to say you cannot file any more motions in a case. You cannot take other acts or statutorily be a vexatious litigant who keeps filing the same kind of suit over and over again against someone, really for purposes of harassment. So there are tools that exist to limit that, and this is really kind of the best approach to do that, I think.
 So then my follow-up question in regards to, you know, too frivolous complaints means you can't file. In any of your research, is any of that, have you seen any case law when that takes place with interacting with a governmental body or an elected official? You know, it's a little bit different. I have not seen that. It's similar, but administratively, I think at some point you can draw a line.
 and say that once you engage in certain types of behavior, you're not permitted to speak further. So, for example, if a person appears live before counsel and is disruptive, that person's ability to petition their speech before the counsel can be ended by virtue of the way that they disrupt the counsel. So this is really kind of analogous to that situation.
 Well, and that is really actually I'm really glad you brought that up because that's kind of where some of my concern comes in because we did see recently that the Texas legislator did weigh in on how public comment or how it was allowed with governmental bodies. And so I do have concern that if we begin to limit.
 someone's ability to file an ethics complaint, we could then see the legislature interject based on our actions. So I guess it's a very helpful conversation. I wish that we had had more time to have that conversation. It's still...
 I completely understand where you are all coming from. I don't want to say that I disagree with it on the basis or the grounds but I just am concerned with how we are limiting the interactions with our government. But I thank you for that information.
 I do have another question Mr. Wesson or Mrs. Neiman. So the two year statute of limitations where did y'all come up or I guess for anyone on the commission where did the idea for a two year statute of limitations come up or come from. I apologize. So so currently under the ordinance there is no limitation.
 on a person filing an ethics complaint against an officer or an employee of the city. A two-year statute of limitations is your common law. Most tort claims kind of actions against the person are brought within a two-year statute of limitations and we felt that it was sufficient time because what was happening is that without a statute of limitations people can make allegations 15 years after the fact
 that officer or that employee is no longer in the city, the witnesses are gone, the evidence is gone. So based under statutory law, it's a two-year statute of limitations to preserve evidence and call witnesses. And then I'll let the rest of the council, the commission, weigh in on that. Are you done with that, Representative Nill? No, I was waiting for that. I think the commission was going to weigh in on that. I see Mr. Marcus with his hand up.
 I have my hand up, but a little bit different aspect. I have Commissioner Williams and Mr. Marcus still waiting to talk on that. So do you want to talk on it, Mr. Marcus, and then we'll go to Commissioner Williams? Mayor, I'd be glad to. I'm not actually – I wasn't going to talk about the two-year limitation so much, but my personal reason for –
 being a little sensitive to this whole issue, particular issue. 20 years ago, I was the target of the Ethics Commission, and I was serving on the Districting Commission, and a complaint was filed against me to force me to redraw a district line where I didn't think it was necessary to do it. I thought it was gerrymandering. And eventually, the city council ended up apologizing to me as a whole, which is great, but...
 I didn't want to see that happen to anyone else. And I really don't want to see the Ethics Commission being used as a tool to harm people, whether they're elected officials or they're volunteers for the city or however they're serving. And I think that's my overriding concern. And the reason I was so much for seeing something put in place to not necessarily punish people, but at least
 slow that kind of complaint from keep it from happening in the future. So and I'm glad you brought that up, David, because you know, you are my appointee to the Commission. That is the reason the partial reason that I did appoint you. I absolutely believe that this what's happening right now does need to happen. And
 I just I have that that concern about limiting people's interaction. But I do appreciate you sharing that and I appreciate all the work that you've done on it. I think that you know this overall is a really great document and I agree that we need to eliminate these kind of frivolous complaints. Just want to make sure we're doing it in the best way possible. And then I think Mr. Williams wanted to respond. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Commissioner Williams please.
 Hi, this is Commissioner Wines. I just wanted to address Representative Annelis' two concerns, because I know that they're important. I know that she's coming from a more inclusive background when it comes towards creating access to city government. The first concern that she had about limiting interactions with the government, I want her to understand that when we have
 decisions that discuss trying to discourage people from filing frivolous actions. Every regulatory body in this state and across the country that hears any type of hearing has some kind of procedure in place to help people, one, ethically bring concerns before that body with certain criteria that those complaints, which is part of what we know about due process, have some basis in law and fact.
 This is why there needs to be a frivolous language guideline within our ethics commission's code, because we need to be able to help the public understand that we have to have those protocols in place so that people don't file things in a frivolous way. That actually encourages interaction with the government, because we know that when people choose to bring those complaints, they're bringing them credibly and with some basis of law and fact.
 So it's not used as a gatekeeping device to just discourage people or things that we don't like. It's used to encourage people to bring the best quality things before this body so that it doesn't waste the government's time and it also preserves their resources. Then the second answer that I have about Commissioner Anello, City Council Member Anello's concerns about the two-year statute of limitations is,
 I understand that people in general are very concerned about limitations because they think that they might fall outside of those guidelines, but there are a lot of advantages to a statute of limitations as were mentioned before. One is that it encourages people to bring their concerns in a timely fashion, which was discussed before by one of our other commissioners. The reason why that's important is that the best evidence is obtained when the complaint is made as soon as possible after the action has taken place.
 the further away we get from the concern or the conduct that gives rise to that action, the harder it is to obtain witnesses, to obtain evidence, to obtain testimony that's credible or that's complete. And so a two-year statute of limitations, especially when it's announced within the code, puts people on notice that there is a certain level of,
 of timeliness about bringing those actions as opposed to just sitting on them until they feel like they're safer to raise those concerns. And then the people who are accused of certain actions are put at a substantial disadvantage, which I know the council woman would not want to encourage us to put
 people that are accused of certain ethics concerns at a substantial evidentiary disadvantage because they can't find the evidence or the people to defend themselves. A two-year statute of limitations, which is what I'd like to explain in summation, actually protects the people that are accused and encourages us to get the timeliness of those concerns out as soon as possible. So that doesn't discourage access to interactions with government. It encourages us to bring the best quality evidence and to give people the best...
 That's all I wanted to say. Thank you, Mr. Williams. I appreciate that very much. I have one last question that is something else, but I don't know how my time. You're actually out of time, but go ahead and finish your last question. I would appreciate that. We'll wrap it up.
 Thank you. I appreciate it, Mayor. My last question is for Mrs. Neiman. I know that we had spoken originally when this ordinance was coming up about including some of the fair elections practices that this Council adopted in their strategic plan. I know at our second briefing there was recommended language from the Commission about Council members having to fill out an affidavit when voting on an item.
 that benefited a donor. I didn't see that in this language. I don't know if there is a reason for that or if you have an opportunity to bring that up in the future. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes we did go back to the commission in October and made some recommendations. The commission wanted to spend more time having that conversation in the near future. There was some benchmarking that was presented to them and based on the work
 that they had already done. They felt it was very important that the commission recommend these amendments to move forward and that these be considered by the whole of council and then that they would in the future come back and work on making revisions regarding campaign contributions. It was simply a very different conversation from the...
 scope and the breadth that they had already focused their whole year working on. Okay. And I understand that. And definitely threw that at y'all after you had done a lot of the work. So I appreciate them even hearing that and considering it and would hope because it isn't important to me and it was part of our strategic plan that we can look to once this has, you know, either gone through the council, completely have that be another task for the Ethics Commission and come up before the end of the year. So I appreciate that very much. That's, I would yield the floor.
 And with that, I do have Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Molinar, and back to Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein.
 DIRECTOR HAMPSON, Yeah thank you Mayor. And I just wanted to thank Colonel Weston and City Manager Neiman for the work that you've done along with the members of the commission. Really great strides and steps for improved ethics and transparency within our community. Representative Manalo asked all my questions related to the frivolous complaint so I understand now I was I just was confused as to what the new language would be because I just saw it struck out.
 So so no concerns there. I do want to share my sentiments regarding campaign finance reform within City Council. Would love to have the opportunity to get the feedback from the commission about placing caps. I know that's not part of the discussion today but but looking at possible contribution limits.
 by all candidates running for city office. And I know that that's within our strategic plan and I know that's something that my constituents are very interested in learning about. So we'll we'll would welcome that conversation. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you again Representative Hernandez. Representative Molinar.
 Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Appreciate your time. To the commission members, thank you very much for all your diligence and hard work. And Commissioner Williams, it's great to see you and happy that you're on board on that. But anyway, so my question, I guess, would be to the Colonel Weston or Carla Neiman, if you could address, do you keep any statistics as far as the amount of complaints that are filed, whether they're frivolous or not? And if they are frivolous, are they like...
 separated another category, let's just say for the last five years or even going back 10 years, two years or anything like that. Any data? Mr. Molinar, no, I don't have statistics. I will tell you that in my time with the commission, there was one ethics complaint that was deemed frivolous. We would need to go back and look to see if there had been other ethics complaints that were deemed frivolous.
 Um, believe it or not, ethics complaints aren't as frequent as some people may have you believe that they're few and far in between. That's a good thing. We have records, but we don't have them on hand. So we'll have to we'll have to go back.
 And really that's for me is like a driving force. I understand everything that was explained. I understand the commission's reasoning and understanding. But if we can only annotate one in the last two or three years that's a little bit different for me but I understand you don't have the data in front of me. Thank you sir. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yes sir. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Mullin that Representative Schwartzbein.
 Thank you Mayor. A lot of my questions have already been answered. Just want to understand a little bit better. So what is the appeal process as it relates towards the Ethics Commission. I know that in previous years that was something that was brought up as an issue and concern both by outside members but also by members of the commission as well that there was no way to really appeal a ruling. So I'm curious as to sort of see what has changed and what is that process to appeal.
 So, Carlo, I'll start it just on procedurally what the commission developed, and then you can elaborate on it. But it is a new provision for reconsideration if new evidence is presented that already existed but wasn't available during the hearing. And so that's how it's quantified, and then they can go back to the commission requesting a rehearing.
 Carla, do you want to add anything to that? Yeah, that's correct. So it's it's based on new evidence and then the person asking for the for the reconsideration would file a request in writing to the city clerk's office. And then within 14 days of that notice the the request would go to the Ethics Commission.
 So it would there would have to be some sort of discovery or new evidence and they would go in and they would make an appeal to the Ethics Committee that there's new evidence that came about. I would like to appeal this rule. Correct. And it would have to be within 14 days of the Ethics Commission's written notice. So if they were sanctioned, they had 14 days from that notice to either submit new evidence and ask for that reconsideration.
 Okay. And then how does the the process with the one of the questions was ex parte unsolicited ex parte communication was also something that was discussed in previous cases and also was something that was brought up as being changed here. So again just so for everybody's awareness how does that work? Does that relate towards
 Is there somebody that is being tried if they reach out to members or and how does that work if members of the committee reach out to members of the City Council or members of the city or that sort of thing? Ex parte communications of members, they would have to recuse themselves. It's not it's not allowed for them to
 the case or circumstances or facts surrounding the case outside of the body of the hearing. So if we had somebody say David's on the committee, he reaches out to me about something that's being heard, we would we would as council members need to report it to Ms. Neiman or to the committee that that we had received communication with one of the committee members?
 Yes that that is correct. You would you would either report it to to Mr. Weston who oversees the Ethics Commission as the appointee by the city manager or myself or the chair of the Ethics Commission who then would have to ask that member to recuse themselves from participating in the hearing. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Schwartzbein. Representative Zeta. DIRECTOR ZETTA. DIRECTOR ZETTA. Thank you.
 Thank you, Colonel Weston, Ms. Neiman, and of course, the Commission for their fine work that they did on this revision here. I also like to welcome my appointee, Mr. Williams, to the Commission on this. Regarding slide 9 on the restricting and lobbying, I agree.
 I'd like to know if Mr. Williams or anybody else can take that and expand it more as far as, is this the extent of the ruling for lobbies? Can I answer your question, Mr. Gervetta, first before Mr. Williams steps in? I think there is the provision in the ethics ordinance that references lobbying is the prohibition for lobbying.
 former officers or employees of the city to not engage in lobbying activities, either for 24 hours, 24 months or 12 months after they leave the city. That's the extent of the regulation within the ethics ordinance as to lobbying activities. There is a separate provision outside of the ethics ordinance for lobbying activities in general that is not covered within these amendments. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Okay. DIRECTOR GENERAL LYNCH, Does that address your question?
 Well, when you and I had that, you and I and the Colonel had a conversation, you said there was an extensive manual on this as far as I was concerned. But if that's going to be simply for addressing the council, ma'am? Well, certainly, you know, we have lobbying ordinances. I think that's what you may be. I know we had this conversation when we talked yesterday.
 And you indicated that we may want to take a look at that because there's been some time since that's had any eyes for revision. And so if the body of the council at some point wants to have us look at the lobbying ordinance as well, that's certainly something that we would do. Okay. Okay. Well, thank you very much for the questions. And, again, I thank the commission for their due diligence on this, and especially this one, which is...
 pretty near and dear to me here and holding the lobbyists accountable regarding this ethics code. I really thank you all and thank you Mayor. Thank you and that's we don't have any other questions. Do we need a motion? I think it's already been there. There is no motion yet council. Motion to approve? Second. Can we call the question Ms. Pern? Yes sir there is a motion and a second to approve item number 29. There is no public comment.
 On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Yes. Representative Anello. No. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. The motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay. The motion passes. We now turn to page 12.
 to item 35 that was also moved to the forefront of the agenda. This is discussion in action on the city's historic designation process. And thank you for, before we get, I wanna thank again Colonel Weston and the commission for their hard work for the past year. And item 35 I put on there just because there's a lot of questions about,
 what was going on with the historic commission and the ordinance that was on the book. So I asked Ms. Neiman to kind of help me out and kind of bring it to the forefront and kind of take the lead on this and explain and give us our options of the interpretation of the ordinances. So that's really my whole presentation because I just want council to kind of hear from Ms. Neiman and then
 we can determine what the next step is moving forward so thank you ms nieman for all for that uh thank you mayor before we we discuss any of this in in public i would like to have a discussion in executive session about some items and then um move out of executive session based on what council wishes to proceed to do so i move to retire into executive session second
 Ms. Neiman, will council be retiring under 551.071 consultation with attorney? Yes, please. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to retiring to executive session. All in favor? I'm sorry, before we go, may I ask a public comment and do you want to take that first? I think maybe the mayor jumped off. Is there anyone opposed to retiring to an executive session?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss Item 35, Discussion in Action on the City's Historic Designation Process under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 4.20 p.m. Council, I will call you in shortly. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Are we ready, Ms. Prine? Yes, I believe we do have a quorum. Council, is there a motion to come out of executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 545 p.m. Mayor, may we go to call to the public?
 yes please and then we'll go back for the agenda item thank you thank you the el paso city council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge the city council meetings are public meetings under the texas open meetings act public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council all persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons
 without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening, we have two members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Rosa Unzueta. Her topic is passenger problem with the use of Sun Metro Lyft program. Good evening, Ms. Unzueta. If you'll press star six, ma'am, you can unmute your microphone and begin speaking for three minutes. Hello?
 Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good evening, Mr. President. I need to talk to you regarding the problems that are occurring every single day. They're from bad to worse.
 I'll try to talk to you with Mr. Rivera, my district 7, Mr. Rivera, but he never answered.
 Mrs. Escobar office and I talked with Maria Jose Calixto to try to help us with the problem. You know, three minutes is not simple to talk about all the things that are happening to us, the passengers. They treat us like a package. They just drop us any time. They don't care about our appointment with the doctors. They just want to drop us in cold weather or in extreme hot weather.
 And I called also the TV last year, so they interview first the manager, who is Mr. Rafael Fernandez, but instead of him, Julio Perez, the city representative at Santa Metro Lift, appear at the TV. And then we have the interview at Dr. González's office, in which one,
 We talked, I talked to Dr. Portillo, who attends the hyperbaric machine talk also, and a lady who has the opposite of the problem that I have.
 Dr. Portillo has to wait more than an hour for the patient to be picked up. And the other time, the driver wanted to drive me 45 minutes. We were under 70 degrees Fahrenheit. And I told him, I'm not going to leave the bus. So, Mr. Lizer, I'm requesting from you to please have a meeting with the
 Julio Perez, Rafael Fernandez, Alejandro Arrieta, Gerardo Meza, Dr. Portillo, and Mr. Bautista, Jesus Bautista, and myself, because this is a very, very long story, and you knew about it five years ago. So we need to talk about all the problems that are occurring. I'm trying to get a hold with Mr. Fernandez. It is impossible.
 So that's why I try with the city clerk. That's all I have to say, Mr. Lister, and I need an appointment with you, please. Thank you for calling us, and I will call Mr. Julio Perez and have him contact you. Thank you again, ma'am, for coming today.
 Thank you. The next speaker. Okay. Thank you so much. I'll try to get a hold with you at your office. Thank you, Mr. Litter, and have a good day. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Dr. Lorenzo Portillo, who has requested Spanish interpretation, and he will be assisted by Marcela Conde, our Spanish interpreter. Buenas tardes, Dr. Portillo. Si oprime la estrella y el numero seis.
 puede hablar va a tener seis minutos con la asistencia de una interprete en español si ya me está escuchando si señor si lo va a asistir una lo va a asistir una interprete así es que le pido que también le pause para que la interprete la pueda asistir gracias
 si muy bien miss conde you're on mute star six please to unmute your microphone miss conde if you're in teams you can click on your microphone to unmute this condé if you'll
 click on your microphone you can unmute them can he repeat himself and I'll provide the translation thank you Laura doctor por si yo si podria repetir lo que dijo para que lo asiste okay si yo soy como medico asistente tengo un año y medio
 working on wound care and hyperbaric cameras. We've had problems with the trucks because generally the patients are never on time or sometimes they don't wait for them. Dr. Conde says that he is a medical assistant. He's been working there for a year taking care of the patient health care services.
 They have experienced problems with the public transit services, stating that the patients are often late or are not picked up on time. ¿Puede seguir, doctor? Sí. Otra situación es de que a veces llegan, cuando llegan y el paciente no está completamente listo,
 We tell them to wait for 5 or 7 minutes and they have no tolerance. They leave before the time. Another issue that has come up is that at times the patient is not ready to be picked up and we ask that they wait to be prepared to depart on the vehicle and they are not allowed to do so. But Seguid?
 Sí, prácticamente ese es uno de los problemas constantes que hemos tenido y sobre todo cuando las temperaturas están tan bajas. Yo a veces me he quedado con los pacientes, a veces esperando y tardan bastante. Yo he esperado hasta más de una hora para que puedan llegar los camiones.
 Este ha sido el preocupante más común que hemos estado experimentando. Este es particularmente un problema cuando hay altas temperaturas. Tienen un tiempo excesivo. He esperado al menos hasta una hora para que los vehículos se recogieran. Para que los vehículos se recogieran. Es el fin de su...
 Sí, prácticamente eso es todo lo que yo quisiera nada más comentar. Me gustaría que hubiera más responsabilidad y que tuvieran un poco más de tolerancia, que pensaran un poquito más en los pacientes, porque a veces ellos no tienen un medio de transporte y es su única alternativa.
 Yo he tenido a veces que hasta llevar pacientes en mi vehículo porque se ponen muy tristes. Entonces, pues sí, me gustaría que tomaran eso en cuenta.
 Me gustaría ver un mayor respeto para el paciente. Creo que hay que pensar más en los necesidades del paciente, porque muchos de ellos no tienen otras opciones de transporte. A veces, he tenido que llevar al paciente a casa yo misma porque me han dejado muy triste. Eso es todo. Gracias. Tenemos ambos de estos casos recibidos hoy. Los enviaremos a la oficina del director de la ciudad. Gracias a todos.
 Gracias.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I would just like to make a motion to finalize the amending of this ordinance. Okay, we do have a motion and a second, but I would like to continue the dialogue and allow if we have any public comment or anything before we do take a vote. Mayor, I'm not sure that's legal. City Attorney? Miss... So once there's a motion on the floor and a second, Mayor, you should take the vote.
 I'll withdraw my second until public comment has been taken. Thank you for that Representative. I know that we do have a motion and we'll wait for a second after our conversation and public comment is taken. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you. DIRECTOR DE LA HOMBRE DE LA SUEÑA And I'll take that in the same order. Thank you. And with that we have Representative Schwarzbein and then we'll continue with Ms. Neiman that can give the presentation. DIRECTOR DE LA HOMBRE DE LA SUEÑA Mayor if I could just withhold my question so after Ms. Neiman's presentation that I would prefer to do
 Absolutely sir. Thank you very much. Ms. Neiman. Yes. Thank you Mayor. Russell can you pull up the presentation that we have for the public. Yes ma'am. While you're looking at the presentation I know Representative Salcido would you like to speak after the presentation. Yes sir. After the presentation. Thank you. Thank you. You'll be right after Representative Schwartzbeil. Russell that's not the right presentation. Sorry. Do you want me to pull it up.
 I'm here. I quite didn't understand that. Would you mind going back to the executive session real quick? I don't have a problem, sir. You just need to make a motion. I make a motion to go to executive session, please. Second. There's a motion and a second. I move motion and a second. To retire into executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein? Yes. Representative Anello? No. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye.
 And the motion passes. And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss Item Number 35, Discussion and Action on the City's Historic Designation Process, under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 6.01 p.m. I will call you in shortly, Council. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Council, may we have a motion to come out of executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 612 p.m. We're on item number 35. Okay. We go back to Ms. Newman. Yes, Mayor. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 With Council's permission, we would like to show a presentation about the City's jurisdiction in the Local Historic Process. Please. Go ahead, Russell. Good evening, this is Russell Abel and can everyone hear me? So this is an overview of the City's Local Historic Designation Process and how the City designates historic properties.
 Under Chapter 2020 of the El Paso City Code, the city can regulate historic properties through its local designation process. And the city has jurisdiction over national register or state registered historic properties that are located within one of these local zones that are designated through the city's process. The city gets its power...
 to do historic zoning through Section 211 of the Texas Local Government Code. And the Texas Local Government Code says that the city can zone for the purposes of promoting the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare, and for the purpose of promoting and preserving places and areas of historical, cultural, or architectural importance and significance.
 And the second one is how the city regulates its historic properties. In order to designate a property historic locally, we go to the process in Texas Local Government Code Section 211.0165. And this process...
 requires in order to designate a local historic district, it requires owner consent or three fourths of City Council, a supermajority in order to override an owner not consenting. So what this does is it provides due process. So someone that maybe in an area that the city wants to designate his locally historic, a local historic district.
 This gives them the opportunity to provide comment throughout this process. And this works in conjunction with our local historic designation process under Chapter 20.20. And so the first part is an application is submitted to the Historic Landmark Commission. And this can be submitted by city council. It can be submitted by HLC itself, or it can be submitted by a member of the public.
 The next step is that Historic Landmark Commission will review and City Plan Commission will review. They will send their reviews to City Council. City Council will then make a final decision on creating a local historic district. The primary way that the city regulates its historic properties located in its historic districts is through a certificate of appropriateness.
 And the definition section of our code provides some clarification. And if you look at the definition of certificate of appropriateness, it says the property must be located in a city-designated historic district. If you look at the definition, then, of historic district, it says that it must be within the boundaries of one or more designated historic H-overlaid properties or districts. So a certificate of appropriateness is only required if,
 if the property is located within one of the city's designated historic districts.
 And here is the section that has caused some confusion in our code, and this is for certificates of appropriateness. And what the issue has been with number one there, and it says any permanent feature on a property listed as a Texas Antiquities Landmark or on the National Register of Historic Places. And.
 Some have said that this gives the city authority to require the properties that are listed alone on the National Register or this or the State Antiquities Landmark. This gives the city the ability to require certificates of appropriateness. But if you go back to the definition section you'll see that a certificate of appropriateness is only required if in a designated historic district a local historic district.
 So, number one only applies to Texas Antiquities landmark properties or National Register properties that are located within an existing local historic district. And here's a summary of the National Register of Historic Places and what that does. So the National Register is not a zoning mechanism.
 What the National Register does is it encourages preservation through tax incentives if the owner chooses to restore and maintain the property. And designation alone does not restrict an owner's ability to alter, move, or demolish his or her property. And here's an example of the city's process.
 So you'll see here is the downtown historic district and the outline of that district is in orange and within that district, we have properties that are designated locally as landmarks contributing non contributing and you'll see that some of those properties are also listed on the National Register of Historic Places and that's the green star designation.
 And so those properties within the orange boundaries, we can regulate through our local historic process in Chapter 2020, whether they are listed as a landmark or whether whether they have NRHP designation. What you'll see on the outside in the right corner is a property that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places but is not within our local downtown district.
 And that property, the city cannot regulate because it has not been gone through the zoning process to make that included in one of our historic districts. So we benchmarked cities throughout the state. And what we found is that most city codes in Texas, all the ones that we looked at, were not different from the city of El Paso. And how we implement and enforce our procedures is...
 is not any different than any other city in Texas. So the city regulates historic properties through its local designation process. And the city only regulates national register properties or state designated properties if they are located with one of our existing local historic districts.
 that have been created through our Chapter 2020 process in conjunction with Section 211 of the Texas Local Government Code. Are there any questions? We do have set up, we have Representative Schwartzbein followed by Representative Salcedo. Representative Schwartzbein. So can you explain, Russell, thanks again, I guess a little bit more basic sort of,
 where this confusion is and how a National Register District interacts with our local historic districts. Because I think that's that's where some of the confusion is coming from from our own HLC from the business community and from a lot of the sort of stories that have been reported on this in as simple as you can.
 So I think the confusion comes when if you read this section, and this is the section of certificates of appropriateness. If you read it alone without looking at the whole section on historic districts, I can see how there could be confusion that reading that gives
 the city authority or perceived authority to regulate properties that are only on the National Register of Historic Places or are only on the Texas Antiquities Landmark. And when you read the definitions, you see more in a holistic manner that what this is referring to is Texas Antiquities Landmark or National Register properties that are located within one of the city's
 So the easiest way I can say that is that we only regulate properties if they're located in one of our existing historic districts. So if you have a property that is, say, in the National Register District, say, on Overland and El Paso Street, where there's nothing that's currently in the local historic district, and it's on the National Register District, it would not be impacted by that?
 by those local rules? Correct. So another example might be Kern Place. So there could be properties in there that are listed on the National Register, but we don't have a local historic district created for Kern. So properties in Kern, even if they're on the National Register, do not go through our certificate of appropriateness process. But a property that was on the National Register district
 say, a property in Sunset Heights that was on the National Register District, it would also be inside the local historic district, and then the local historic regulations would apply. Yes, sir. That is correct. And this power comes from zoning. So if we haven't zoned it and gone through that process, then we have no authority to regulate it. Okay. Well, I have some more questions, Mayor, but I'll reserve that for another time. Thank you. Thank you. We have...
 Representative, let me make sure. We have Representative Liz Sadega, please. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry. I believe that Representative Swartzbein asked my first question, but just to make it clear,
 You know, I have neighborhoods in and around my district like Sunset Heights that are listed on the National Historic Register. And how would changing or removing this section of the code impact the residents and property owners within those neighborhoods and historic overlays? They wouldn't be impacted. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct.
 So there's no need to remove that language because whether it's there or not, how we regulate our properties is through the zoning, the local zoning mechanism.
 So whether a property is listed on the National Register is almost irrelevant. So if a property is listed on the National Register, if you look at the picture in front of me, you'll see a property that's listed as contributing in light blue. And then you'll see there are some that are not listed as National Register properties.
 We don't treat them any different. They are all regulated through our 2020 process if they are within a historic zone like the orange boundary shown. Okay.
 So how would designation as a state antiquities landmark impact the ability of a property owner, including, you know, let's say the city of El Paso, to make alterations to the properties? Would they have to consult with the Texas Historical Commission before doing so? Or what would be the purview of the THC over permitted work on a property in such a case? And how do those mechanics work for the benefit of the public?
 Sure. Miss Neiman, would you like me to answer? Would you like to answer this? You can answer and then I'll step in. So how the National Register designation works is, well actually how the State Antiquities Landmark works, is for public properties, like municipally owned properties, in order for those properties
 to get state antiquities landmark designation. First, they have to be designated on the National Register. And so if a property is designated on the state antiquities landmark, it is then subject to permits and procedures by the state.
 And these are similar to our 2020 procedures, you know, that we require permits, except that this no longer would be handled at a local level of historic landmark commission. It would then be handled at a state level by the Texas Historical Commission. And that's for city-owned property. So the city of El Paso would not have any local regulation over city-owned property once it's on the state antiquities landmark designation.
 So we wouldn't have any more control over that property? No, you would lose control over the property because any alteration or change to that building would be determined by a state agency in Austin, not in El Paso. Okay.
 So based on what you said, it's my understanding that a property has to be listed on the National Register before it can be designated a state antiquities landmark by the THC. Is that correct? A public, municipally owned property, a property owned by the municipality would have to be listed on the National Register first. Okay. Private properties, I don't believe would require that.
 national legislation. And, you know, why are city properties aren't at, if you could, for the benefit of the public, why aren't city properties eligible for state and federal historic tax credits? Well, the municipality, we are a tax-exempt entity. We're a public entity, so we don't pay taxes. So there wouldn't be any tax credits available. For the city to take advantage of.
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF Yes ma'am. DIRECTOR HARRIS Okay. And then this is a question maybe for for Phillip. I know that planning and inspections department has been working on a comprehensive rewrite or overhaul of Title 20 for the last many months. Is this proposed change consistent with findings of that process including the stakeholder outreach that has been going on.
 That's correct, ma'am. So I just want to be clear on one thing. These changes, along with some other Title 20 changes, are separate. So we are bringing this on a separate track than some of the other cleanup that we're doing with Title 20. And this change is consistent with our comp plan, and it's to make the ordinance a lot easier and user-friendly.
 for our neighbors and I mean for our community and users. To have a more holistic process is that correct? That's correct ma'am. Okay thank you very much. Thank you mayor. Thank you representative Sarger. We have representative Rivera followed by representative Rodriguez then representative Schwartz-Meiningen. Thank you mayor. Thank you. This question is directed to Ms. Neiman. Ms. Neiman for
 For information's sake, what is the process to amend an ordinance? In this case, it would be Title 20. And after you answer that, can we amend the ordinance today? If not, why not, please? So I'll answer the last question first. You cannot amend the ordinance today. Under our charter and our city code, all ordinances have to have –
 an introduction on the agenda and a public hearing. But prior to a public hearing or an introduction, there is a process that is instituted through various departments that administer provisions of our code. So in this instance, Title 20, which is zoning, is administered by the Planning and Inspections Department. And they have numerous boards and commissions that have jurisdiction over these types of regulations.
 Traditionally, what happens is the amendments are brought forth because council has received or has directed staff to make a recommendation to amend a provision, like what council did this earlier today on the ethics ordinance, where you directed my office and the city manager to amend the ethics ordinance. And then it goes through a public vetting process that is done through a board and commission. Then it reaches out to the public and has public outreach
 it's holistic in nature and then once the public has weighed in and the council has been sufficiently briefed then the item is brought forward through the commission to the council through a public hearing and an introduction before it is actually implemented. That has not happened for title the specific provision that has been discussed at length in the last couple of weeks for an amendment to that provision.
 some of that process has not taken place yet. Mr. Rivera, a case in point would be the noise ordinance which took over a year for public input and the whole process to take shape. Thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. Thank you, Mayor. That's it for now. I reserve the rest. Thank you, sir. And with that, we have Representative Rodriguez followed by Representative Molinar.
 Thank you Mayor. So my question is in terms of Title 20 has the process started as far as it to get amended? Has that process begun and if so when? Phillip do you want to start? I'm sorry is that question for me or for Ms. Newman? Her question was whether the process for amending Title 20 has begun.
 That's correct. It is still going through the vetting process. So this process went to, this amendment went to several of the registered historic district, you know, many years ago. So we took this to the downtown management district last year, and they gave us their full support.
 and it went to the Historic Landmark Commission about two weeks ago. They also gave their support. So the next stage here is to go to the City Planning Commission, and City Planning Commission will give their recommendation to City Council, that's when it comes to City Council. That process has not started yet. Okay, thank you. And when will it be going to City Planning?
 As soon as leadership gives us the direction to put it on city I mean city planning commission agenda schedule and we'll do so. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. So then that would be my motion correct to direct the city manager to put this on the next city planning commission to bring it back to us as soon as possible. DIRECTOR RIVERA- That can be a motion. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. Then that's my motion.
 We won't get a second yet. I still would like to take the rest of the council and public comment. With that, we go to Representative Molinard. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. So I understand this is already Chapter 20 has already been being vetted. But does any of that vetting so far include 1A in any shape or any part or in whole?
 Mr. Moulinard, can you please repeat your question? Certainly, Col. Chapter 20 is already being vetted. It's been doing community outreach. Has there been any discussion regarding one, or correct, A1 in part or in whole? So the vetting process is still ongoing.
 Okay, so I don't know that I understood your question, but the vetting process is ongoing. And if you look at the CPC process, that's a public vetting where notices will be given because this is an amendment to an ordinance as required by Chapter 20. It has to be publicized.
 and notices sent out. And also public input will be entertained at the time that it goes to city planning commission.
 Okay, so Phil, we're doing Chapter 20, but that's the entire chapter, correct? So that would include 1A or A1, correct? Correct. So Chapter 20, it's a large document. That's the zoning document. So I want to make sure that I separate 2020, which is the historic landmark section, from the rest of 2020.
 So what you have here, what we're discussing today is 2020, which is specifically to Historic Landmark Commission. That's what we're discussing right now, not the entire Chapter 24 amendments. Okay, but the vetting that we've been doing or you've been doing includes Chapter 20.
 is chapter 20. It is chapter 20. So there are sections in chapter 20. So this one particular section is 20.20. So that's what we've been vetting for the last five years. And that's the one that we had the downtown management district, you know, gave us their full support this specific issue here. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. That's all, Mayor.
 Thank you. Before we go any further I did get a note from Ms. Prine says that according to Robert's rules there can be a debate even if if you if a motion has been made and second. So so we do have a motion and we can't get a second then. DIRECTOR DEWOLF I'll second Representative Rodriguez motion. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Oh sorry sorry Jeff.
 Thank you. And with that, we'll continue our debate in our motion. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Mayor, quick question. I'm sorry to interrupt. Do I need to amend my motion before we continue? No, because you didn't have a second on the first one. Okay. Because that motion was pulled off. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And now who is next is Representative Schwarzman. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm curious, Mayor, you had said that, um, you had said that there was, there were some members of the county that were available to, to answer some questions that we have, because even though this is about Title 20, it's about, you know, something larger as well. And I'm just trying to look and there's no one on here that I can see. I've been looking on here when you asked me that, and I've not seen anybody in the county that's on here. Hey, Mayor, did you...
 Jose Landeros, the interim director of economic. Thanks. There you are. Mr. Landeros. Are you on your phone then? Mr. Landeros, are you on your phone? Yes, Murray, that's correct. Oh, okay, no wonder I didn't see you there. Mr. Landeros, how are you doing? It's Rep. Schwartzbein. Nice to hear your voice, sir. Good evening, Representative. And good evening to members of council and staff. I hope your family is healthy and safe during this pandemic. You know, it's really been a challenge.
 Um, to do the kind of oversight and the kind of outreach that we need. Even just a community meeting is is a technical feat sometimes. So I know the the challenges that we're all dealing with, um, as institutions that represent this community and serve this community. Um, I just had a couple questions. You know, I
 I'm a big supporter of the county's work. I truly value the work that the county is doing, and I clearly recognize the value that we need to have a National Register District for downtown and for Sigland-Deuario. And I'm kind of curious because I know that, you know, you've been at the county for a very long time. Um, you've worked, um, with some really great county commissioners and also, um, by yourself as well, um, really helping the county. So I'm
 From your perspective, from the county's perspective, what is the purpose for the county to create this National Register District in Segundo Barrio in downtown? Yeah, thank you, Representative. And for the record, Jose Landeros, again, Interim Director of Economic Development for El Paso County.
 The county's intent on creating this district has always been to try and provide access to the tax rebates that Representative Sadikam referred to earlier for some smaller property owners. It's a very cumbersome process to engage in the type of study and architectural work that needs to go into developing those nomination packages to be listed on the Register of Historic Places nationally.
 for some individual property owners. And so in the interest of preserving the architectural history of downtown and Siglo Nevada, the county embarked on this process and this project to make those tax credits available in the hope of,
 spurring development and redevelopment of downtown properties that are significantly underutilized, that don't contribute to the tax base at the level that we think they could. And I think in a lot of ways, those are interests that both the county and the city share because of the fact that we wanna make downtown El Paso's living room. I think that's the common phrase that we hear quite often. And this is one tool.
 of other tools that are available to help make that a reality. Yeah, and I absolutely agree. You know, there's so much to our downtown. We have such a vibrant history in Segundo Barrio.
 in our already local downtown historic district with the Trost architecture. We have such great economic opportunities in terms of looking at getting folks to invest with those local tax credits. I'm curious again, and this was touched on, how can city property, city owned properties be eligible for state and state and federal historic tax credits?
 Right, and I think you heard a little bit of this from your Sissing County attorney who was briefing council right before this, but as a tax-exempt organization, the city, similar to the county, right, any municipal, any local government would not be eligible for those tax credits. It would only be privately owned properties. So if city-owned properties don't qualify for historic tax credits, either state or federal tax credits,
 I guess I'm trying to understand why is there a insistence on keeping those city-owned properties within the footprint within the boundaries of the county's proposed National Register District. Because those properties don't don't act aren't actually eligible for for what you're trying to do. Right. Which is to open up.
 open up properties for tax for state and federal tax credits. But those state and federal tax credits don't apply for city properties. So why the insistence from the county to still keep those city owned properties within this natural register district boundaries? Sure. The county, the Commissioner's Court, when they were evaluating the boundaries for the district
 were ultimately made the decision based on the recommendation from our consultant to let us know that we had to that it was not advised
 to have a discontinuous boundary for the district that we were discussing. And the hope of obviously seeing this come to fruition and seeing this succeed at the state and then ultimately at the federal level was to follow the recommendations from our consultant who has experience in managing these nomination packages for other jurisdictions. So that recommendation was accepted by the commissioner's court, and that was the path that was decided to move forward by the commissioner.
 Yeah, I guess the thing that's hard is that, you know, essentially, you know, the consultant or the county court said we don't want any donut holes within the registered district. Am I understanding that correct? Yeah, so we wanted to ensure that we maintained a congruent boundary line, and this is per the requirements of the National Park Service.
 So if that's the case, why is it that there were housing authority haystack properties that were allowed to be excluded from the property? They also are not eligible for state and federal tax credits as their public-owned buildings as well. So why is it that that was allowed, but
 the very reasonable request from the city to keep these properties that are uneligible for state and federal tax credits. Why was that allowed to occur where their request was honored? Did the consultant think differently about...
 I know that Commissioner Stout is on the line, and I just, I think. I have the floor. I have the floor. All right, let's, excuse me, Rep. No, let me stay in order that we're here. And then. I just don't think Jose should have to answer for the commissioners if there's one on the line. I know that. I know that. I appreciate that. We'll continue based on the order we're going. And we'll continue whoever's next and we'll allow them to speak when their turn comes up. Thank you.
 Uh, yeah. So the, uh, Representative Schwartz, I apologize. Could you repeat the question just to ensure that I have an accurate chance to respond to it? So that's, that's fine. And, you know, um, it's, the arguments made, whether it's by the, I guess, by the county, by the commissioner's court, that they didn't want donut holes. They wanted a congruous, um, boundary, yet the housing authorities properties, they had a request to exclude the housing authorities properties, which would not make it a congruent.
 uh, boundary. And so I'm trying to understand if the housing authority properties were granted an exclusion again, and they're not eligible for tax credits, why was that allowed to occur? Is that a decision from the, from the, the consultant again, or is that from the county commissioner's court? Or I'm just trying to understand.
 I just I just I think it's important is that I believe that this body here this council is completely in support of a National Register District both for Segundo Barrio and for downtown. This council is in support freeing up the ability to get federal and state tax credits for property owners. But those tax credits don't apply for city owned properties in downtown.
 downtown El Paso. They don't apply for city-owned properties. And so if if the reason and the purpose for doing this is to go and and free up these tax credits it can be done without the city-owned properties in there because they don't actually apply and are eligible for tax credits. So my again I just wanted to reiterate that because my question is about that sort of don't donut hole issue and why HACCP was allowed to have their properties excluded.
 Mayor, this is Commissioner Stout. If you would permit me to answer that question, I could answer that. I know that Jose is doing a good job of responding, but I can also help to...
 to answer some of these questions since this is a project that uh i will allow you to speak and uh mr london thank you for taking your time yes we'll move on to the point of order mayor what are we being what are we discussing right now representative schwarzman was talking right now what are what are we discussing he asked a question and he's going to answer a representative short swine's question that's all
 So go ahead and answer his question, and then we'll move on, because we do have some representatives that have a few other questions. And, Mr. Schwarzwein, you'll need to wind down your questions, please. As I just said, I'll answer this. Thank you, sir. Well, I think – Go ahead and answer Mr. Schwarzwein's question, and then we'll move on to Representative Hernandez. May I just have one question after that, if I can? But thank you, Commissioner. Nice to hear from you this evening. I hope your family is healthy and safe right now.
 Yeah, thank you very much, Representative Schwartz-Wine, and thanks for the opportunity to answer. So this is the thing. From what I understand, the Hayset property doesn't create a donut hole as the MPC area would. That's number one. It doesn't create the same issue. Number two, it's not only about the MPC area,
 the historic tax credits, right? It's about the district as a whole. And the reason why we need to include the MPC is because we've been told by our consultants and I believe by the THC, the Texas Historical Commission, that our project would probably not survive if there was a donut hole that size in the district.
 within the proposed district. And so... Yeah, I understand that, but that donut hole are all properties that aren't eligible for tax credits. The properties that the city owns, the 12 properties are not eligible for federal and state tax credits, which is the entire purpose that the county and your court has claimed to want to pursue. So I just... That's one of the reasons...
 Right. I mean, it's not the entire reason. I mean, one of the major reasons why we wanted to create a historic district downtown is so that we can attract tourism so that people can come and...
 see our beautiful downtown. We can put ourselves on the map when it comes. Sorry, Commissioner, that's not the question. And I'm gonna stay with the topic. And I appreciate that. He said that the historic tax credits were the only reason why we wanted to do this. And I'm correcting him and telling him that that's not the only reason why. I mean, this again was a project that originated in my office. So I can tell you the reasons why I proposed this project.
 And I appreciate that. And I understand that. And I also think it bears repeating too that we you know I do appreciate wanting to create a historic district but we've had a historic district in downtown since the 1990s in our community. And again I don't think you're going to have a problem with creating a National Register district for Sigil Navarro downtown from this body. I think we've very much been in support but it just it's I struggle to understand
 why there's such an insistence and such pushback from the county to exclude properties that the city owns, which are not eligible for these federal and state tax credits, which was so important about all the messaging that your office and the county have done over the years about why we need this National Register District. And I don't think it's, again, I think that we also, you know,
 And by having a huge donut hole, we've been told that it would effectively kill our project and none of the buildings would have access to those historic tax credits. Yeah, again, I can't really, you know, everybody has consultants, I guess. I just wanted to have one last one.
 I just think there's more than one. Yes, sir. I just again, I want to thank Commissioner Stout as well as Mr. Landeros for coming up and answering some of our questions here. I'm just really concerned, Mayor,
 about with these amendments that we have on Title 20 to make sure that we really take our time to do this properly and not rush into anything where we're not doing the proper due diligence and the property community outreach that our community deserves right now. And it would be a shame if we're going to be politicizing our
 our code and our ordinances right now when we really should be taking the time to reach out to our constituents, especially during COVID when it's so hard to really reach out to people in a way that's respectful to the voters and respectful to the residents of El Paso. Thank you. Mayor, I also, we've looked at the... Representative Hernandez, Representative Hernandez, please. Thank you. Mayor, if it's okay, if Colonel Weston can finish his thought and I can go into my questions. He's finished.
 Mayor, can I show my screen? It's the San Rodrigo City Engineer. Okay, just to show a map of the boundary of the downtown into the Rangito or the Segundo Barrio area. Let me just share my screen with you.
 And so this is the map of the two boundaries, the downtown and the Segundo Barrio boundaries that were proposed and approved by the county. You can see the housing authority property that was carved out out of the Segundo Barrio, this district is located here.
 the boundary modification that was almost four times the size that's almost four times the size of the mpc footprint that's all all of that is excluded right there from park to virginia to delta that's correct this is the boundary that was approved by the county that's it that's four times the size of of represents please allow him to continue real quick and that's all i want to share
 I just want to share that the council approved a boundary request to boundary modification. It's not a donut. It's on the edge of the district. Okay. Thank you for that. Thank you, Mayor. I can also explain why we left out that. Commissioner, do me a favor. We do have an order here and I would appreciate you to wouldn't interrupt by representative Hernandez. Okay. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Oh no I was I was just gonna mention thank you to Mr. Landeros and Mr. Stowell for coming before council. I think this is the first time the county has ever engaged with me on this issue but for the the letters of support of this measure Mayor and I think this this might be a good opportunity so that we can make sure that we are working in tandem for the betterment of our community. And I'm happy to do that. I'm committed to do that and I know my colleagues are as well.
 Um, but kind of like the intent of this and the spirit of this effort seems a little suspect and it doesn't really add up for me. And so, um, I want to keep us on track because there's emotion on the table today. Um, I have some concerns with what, what that means.
 the motion. Um, and again, let's go back to the spirit of what we're trying to achieve here. If the intent here is to reform the chapter, then the city manager has his marching orders. He can go back and look at outreach, public participation, working with stakeholders, including the county in the city. When we when we talk about public policy, we need to address it from a holistic approach. And that's something that I'm willing to support.
 I don't want to support the motion today because because first of all, I'm confused. The second thing is, is because I'm concerned about what the intent of this item is. And again, it's it just doesn't make a lot of sense when you hear the questions and the responses. And granted, everyone has their own position and their opinions. I just, you know, I'm trying to see past and just kind of move on from from the subject. So I would I would move to delete the item.
 And then I would urge the city manager to come back at a future date after we have done appropriate and sufficient public outreach with all stakeholders who are impacted. I second that. I second that. If the first motion fails, then procedurally we can hear this item, but I would just urge Council to support that. Again, want to thank the county for giving us an opportunity to hear this.
 Um, and Mayor for bringing this forward. I just think at this time we need to move on and work on other business. Okay, um, Ms. Prine? Yes, Mayor, we would need to take the motion to delete first. Mayor, I still haven't...
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Mayor and thank you for bringing this item to the agenda. And you've definitely brought a lot of people's passion out and thank you for having this agenda item before us and letting us all speak on it.
 But to delete a portion of the city code in the way that it is being proposed by some of my colleagues today would go against the standard of the good governance that we have said we want to hold ourselves to in the city strategy goals. There is an established process for this kind of revisions, a holistic throughout process that involves gathering feedback from the stakeholders and from the public. And the process has not been carried out in this case.
 I also think it is worth pointing out that a revision to Title 2020-080 could have a great impact on the City's ability to carry out its future plans within the boundaries of the proposed multi-purpose center.
 Since there is still litigation pending with regards to those plans, I don't think it makes sense to change the state of a play at this moment. I do very much support designation to the National Registry for properties that are actually eligible for the benefit that destination can offer. Since city property is largely ineligible for those benefits, I wish that the city requests to
 to remove from the nomination the properties that the City owns within the MPC footprint that had been considered. For now I can't support any quick changes to Title 2020-080. I know that City staff from the Planning and Inspection Department have been working on their comprehensive revamping of Title 20 as a whole so I look forward to them counting
 continuing the process and coming to council with their recommendations with with their throughout process and public outreaches completed. So thank you so much Mayor. Thank you very much and with that Ms. Prine can you call the question? Yes Mayor there is a motion. Mayor can we do public comment before we take a vote please? Yes please yeah I would like to do that.
 okay mayor we have uh five members of the public that signed up to speak on this item the first person is mr joe gutenrath he will be followed by miss carmen rodriguez followed by dr max grossman mr gutenrath good evening sir good evening this is uh joe gutenrath executive director of the el paso downtown management district mayor city council city staff thanks for allowing me to address you this evening
 The DMD recognizes that revisions to Chapter 2020 are needed. I've personally worked with Philip and his team with the City Planning Department over the past year to develop a comprehensive set of draft revisions to the entire portion of 2020. In December, staff discussed the process and the City staff discussed the process and revisions with the DMD Board.
 And as Phillip indicated at that meeting, the board approved a position statement in support of this effort. But I got to be clear, we were adamant that the revisions be the result of an extensive review by not only those impacted, but by the general public and development community. Revisions to Chapter 2020 will have an impact on DMD property owners, developers within the downtown area, and other parts of our community.
 they are a complex array of laws regulations ordinances and financing issues that are implicated when historic designations and preservation rules are established it takes time and outreach to gather all information needed to properly vet and decide how to take the best action for the community for these reasons the dmd is urging the city council to follow a careful process in revising chapter 2020
 The city has set a high standard for inclusion, public dialogue, and outreach for a number of matters when it comes to issues like the noise ordinance, food trucks, and many others. This effort should be no different. Recognizing the importance of these revisions and having been involved in these efforts for over a year, I am happy to assist the city in engaging the public and continuing this important dialogue. Thank you for your interest in revising Chapter 2020, but let's make sure we do this the right way.
 Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Carmen Rodriguez, followed by Mr. Max Grossman. Good evening, Ms. Rodriguez. Good evening. I'm here to, I've been waiting to speak to you about this issue, and it seems to me that one of the problems that has not been mentioned is the fact that this provision is being used by different interests
 and it has been the subject of misinformation to property owners downtown. You will recall that Mark Osborne with Kemp Smith took it upon himself to communicate with downtown property owners and to use this provision as the reason why they should object to the historical district.
 And so it seems to me that the city has an obligation to correct the misinformation that has been given out. Mark Osborne represents the city on various issues, and so he is not completely independent of the city. And to many people, this is just another attempt
 of deluding the voters, deluding the property owners and deceiving them into believing that this historic district is going to be a bad idea. So I think that this has to be addressed.
 first and foremost. And I do think that if this provision is causing so much confusion, which I can see that it does just by the way that the city council was trying to understand, then it does need to be clarified. And the best way to do that is just to delete the reference to the national register. It doesn't matter that other cities have it,
 Apparently it hasn't been a problem for them, but it certainly is a problem for us. And the city has known that this has been a problem. So I urge you to please correct the misinformation campaign that was going on and then correct this provision as soon as possible. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Max Grossman. He will be followed by Mr. David Stout, followed by Clay Barron. Good evening, Mr. Grossman.
 Mr. Grossman, good evening. Good evening. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay, thank you very much, Ms. Prime. Mayor, City Council, thank you very much for the opportunity to address you. I just want to clarify a few points here. I'm an architectural historian. I sit on the board of Preservation Texas and the Trove Society, obviously very interested in historic preservation.
 Currently, there are 25 buildings in all of our urban core that are on the National Register of Historic Places individually, and most of them have been on that list since the 1980s. Twenty-four of them are around San Jacinto Plaza within a couple of blocks, and one is in the Segundo Barrio. The county has been working for five years to establish a much larger area that would include many, many more properties on the National Register.
 If their plan succeeds, the number 25 will be replaced by 174 contributing National Register buildings in downtown and 690 in the Segundo Barrio. And these properties potentially be eligible for tax credits. Federal and state, I could pay for up to 45% of the cost of rehabilitating them.
 The THC has recently released statistics showing that since 2015, $2.6 billion have been invested in Texas cities through these tax credits to rehabilitate historic buildings, creating 54,000 jobs and generating $3.2 billion in wages.
 Just think that El Paso only has 25 buildings on this list currently. Most of these have been restored or are under restoration because of the tax credits. And I'm thinking of Stuart Myers and Lane Gaddy and, of course, Paul Foster. This is a historic opportunity.
 to make these credits available to a huge number of buildings and that could potentially transform the economy of downtown in ways that are positive and that would benefit a lot of people especially the property owners now 20.20.0808 a1 as carmen rodriguez just said has been used as a pretext by opponents of the district to stop this plan
 And I'm hearing some very interesting things from the assistant city attorney who made an interesting presentation, and apparently there is some misinformation out there. And Carmen Rodriguez is right, the city could work together with the county to tell the
 the truth publicly about about the nature of this ordinance and perhaps to to help relieve some of the concerns um as you know the city had a chance to create this district in 2015 and ended up returning seventy one thousand dollars in grant money not conducting an architectural survey and the county took over the project the project and here we are back uh debating the same issue with hundreds of millions of dollars in tax credits at risk
 So I'm hearing from city council representatives general consensus that this is a positive process, that the county is doing the right thing, and I really hope that everybody comes together to make these two districts happen and to avoid any problems or obstacles that could prevent the process from moving forward. I do invite everybody to read the report. Thank you, Dr. Grossman. Thank you, sir. You've reached three minutes. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you all very much. Good evening. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. David Stout followed by Mr. Clay Barron. Good evening, Commissioner Stout. Can you all hear me? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you again, Mayor and Council, for allowing me to speak a little bit earlier to answer some questions and to speak right now.
 And I thank you for taking up this item. You know, it's been years in the making. You know, we've done this project. I finally had my say. Is the deed done?
 I started on this project back in late 2015, early 2016, and we're very close to the finish line, you know, and being able to provide major incentives for property owners who choose to use them. And I want to make sure that it's very clear that this program is permissive. It's not prescriptive. Property owners can choose whether or not they want to accept the historic tax credits towards fixing up their buildings. If they don't.
 none of their rights are going to be affected by the downtown el paso historic district designation the intent of this is of course to be another tool in the toolbox toward building upon the legacy of our of our great downtown core i think it's long past time to move forward and your staff experts and the citizen experts on the historic lamb commission have worked very hard to clear that path
 The county and its staff and citizen experts on the County Historic Commission have also worked very hard. And I think El Paso is blessed with abundant history, and this will help in attracting heritage tourism.
 That's another one of the main reasons why we wanted to do this. You know, tourists interested in culture and history spend more money and stay longer, and when we have regional attractions galore, of course from downtown to the Mission Valley, it makes things better. Now, we, you know, I want to respond a little bit to some of the things that were said earlier when it comes to comments about making this political. This project was begun way before the NPC's location was determined to be in Duranguito area.
 And it wasn't just our consultants who are experts in this type of thing, by the way, but the Texas Historical Commission that advised us that having a huge donut hole in the middle of the proposed district could keep us from receiving the designation.
 We also left out that large, uh, that large swath in the northeast of downtown that was asked about earlier because we were advised the same, that leaving it in could hurt our application because of the concentration of historic buildings there is not exempt. So we're trying to create the best opportunity that we have to make this district a reality. You know, there are millions of dollars in historic tax credits at stake, which could be a huge boon for our economy, as well as the tourism that this, uh,
 designation this honorific designation would create and the only thing that's that's really standing in our way is uh this this ordinance you know again there's there's information out there that um you know that the historic designation on its own would would uh bring further burden and it's this ordinance that would that would do that and so that's why we're asking you to
 to partner with us. The county has been a great partner with the city over many years and many other economic development endeavors, whether it's marketing our city, or whether it was bringing airline
 destination routes to helping helping pay for that you know there have been a lot of great economic development partnerships and this is one more you know that has been there was started by the county but you know I think it still has a lot of great benefit for our economy and for our community so thank you very much for your time
 Commissioner, I want to thank you. And I have had a great working relationship with our county judge. And I look forward to continuing the relationship as we work together as one. So thank you for taking your time to be here. Thank you. Mr. Prime. I appreciate that. I appreciate the relationship that you have with the county, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And the final speaker is Mr. Clay Barron. Mr. Barron, star six to unmute your microphone, please. Good evening, sir.
 Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Mr. Mayor, State Councilmembers, thank you for the opportunity to speak. My family has owned the property in the Cuyahoga Building, 216 and 218, south of Paso since 1950. We've operated a stone shop out of there, out of 216, and then the 218 side, we've used in different businesses over the years.
 Um, this building is the oldest in the county. Uh, we, uh, longstanding, continually used commercial structure in the city. Um, and we like to carry on and continue utilizing it. So, you know, sharing the work with me. Um, we would like, you know, to be able to, um,
 to utilize the tax credit options so that we can improve and restore, better present the building itself. And with that, I would just like to encourage you to please consider approving this ordinance changing the wording.
 Thank you, Mr. Barron. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. You're muted, Mayor. Is there anything you want to add from any of the things that were brought up? Thank you. We have a motion and a second. And thank you all for public comment and the county commissioner and the county staff and everything everyone's done. And I do look forward to continuing the dialogue and continue to work.
 I know that whether this item gets deleted or not, we have started the process of making changes, and we need to continue to do that and bring it back to council, I would believe, in a timely manner. And with that, can we call the question? Yes, sir. This motion is to delete the item. There is a motion and a second to delete item 35, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby.
 I'm just curious, Ms. Neiman, was there any anything you wanted to respond with or anything that any of the concerns were brought up during public comment? Mr. Schwartz, I called the question already. All right. Again, I would. Yeah, I just again, I think it's important that I think everybody wants to see these National Registered Districts happen. And I hope that we can continue this conversation. I understand that. And that's why I called the question, please. Yes.
 Mayor, I'm sorry, shouldn't it be my motion? Shouldn't we vote on my motion first? I vote yes. I'm sorry? The motion to delete takes precedence since it's a secondary motion. So Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein, this is a motion to delete your vote, sir. Well, I just question for our city manager. We're currently working on amending Title 20 as we speak. So us deleting this is not slowing down the process of amending our Title 20. Is that correct?
 That'd be correct. It's in the process. But we're still working on amending this Title 20. We're just doing it the right way. Great. I vote yes. Mr. Gonzalez, is there a timeline by any chance, sir? And I know that you don't like giving us timelines sometimes. You always tell me if I give you guys a timeline, then you push us. But more or less, some kind of timeline that we're working on?
 I'd have to get with staff and then look at the entire process and I'd get back with the with you and the entire council. I'll send you an email to give you the proper timeline after I've spoken with staff. Thank you. Representative Anello? No. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Nay. Salcido? Rodriguez? No. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga?
 Aye. And the motion passes with representatives Schwartzbein, Hernandez, Salcido, Rivera, Lizárraga voting aye, representatives Anelo, Molinar, Rodríguez voting nay. The motion does pass to delete. Mayor, may we return to the regular agenda where we left off? Yeah, and I just wanna repeat, but this motion that is just because it got voted and deleted, it did not go away. I think it was a good conversation and that's why I brought it up,
 We needed to have this conversation, but I do look forward to continuing to work on it because that's what we've said we're doing. And I look forward to getting some kind of timeline from our city staff. Thank you. And yes, the answer is yes. Miss Frank. Thank you, Mayor. We return to page nine.
 Item 28 this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2020 dash zero one seven nine Motor oil antifreeze lubricants transmission and hydraulic oils and fluids to MJ Mater Enterprises Inc DBA biodyne chemical company Second There is a motion in a second to approve. There's no public comment mayor pro temp short swing. Yes representative an ello I Hernandez
 Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizara? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is on page 11. This is item 30. This is discussion and action on a resolution that the City Council of the City of El Paso approves the implementation of the Texas Gas Service Company application to implement initial rates for a conservation adjustment tariff.
 Good evening, members of the City Council. Elizabeth Triggs with Strategic Partnerships. So the item before you is a program proposal by Texas Gas to establish an energy efficiency program in the company's West Texas service area to include seven cities located in El Paso County. As currently proposed, the program is modeled after two existing Texas gas energy efficiency programs in Texas, one in Central Texas and one in the Rio Grande Valley.
 The purpose of the program is to encourage the conservation of energy resources by incentivizing residential and commercial customers, primarily through rebates on energy efficiency gas appliances. However, the program additionally provides support to low-income households by replacing old, inefficient, broken, or unsafe natural gas equipment at no cost to those households.
 So following notification that Texas Gas had filed this application last fall, we've worked closely with the company over the last couple of months to more than double the low-income free appliance budget from $300,000 to $650,000, which accounts for about a third of the overall program budget.
 Other program offerings include residential retrofit and new construction rebates, which make up another one-third of the program budget. There are additionally commercial rebates that account for about 10% of the budget, and the remaining 28% goes to education and administrative costs to run the budget. So through these discussions, Texas Gas is additionally committed to hiring two full-time employees based here in El Paso to administer the program.
 The program, if approved, would be funded by a fixed charge of 72 cents per month, or $8.64 per year for residential customers, and .0071 cents per CCF for commercial customers. And that amounts to approximately $60 per year for small commercial customers, such as restaurants or laundromats, and $3,000 per year for larger commercial customers, like hospitals and logistics facilities.
 In total, the proposed annual program budget is just over $2.275 million. If approved, the proposed tariff needed to fund the program would go into effect on February 23rd and would continue through 2023, at which time City Council, as the local regulator, would have the opportunity to review the performance of the program and decide whether or not to continue it within the city limits for the customers located within the city limits.
 So this item was originally heard by Council on January 19th and postponed to allow staff and Texas GAS the opportunity to explore options to address some concerns Council raised at that time, including the timing of the tariffs implementation as well as whether or not alternative funding sources exist to fund all or a portion of the program.
 So with respect to that first concern and to address the timing issue and in an effort to provide a more immediate solution for Council's consideration, Texas Gas has proposed that if the program is approved today, the effective date could be amended and delayed to August 1st of 2021 to coincide with the time when gas bills are typically a little bit lower because it's the summer months. We do have representatives from Texas Gas here today who are ready to speak on the program.
 and can provide additional information on that August 1st effective date. Separately, yes sir. I'm sorry, go ahead. Sure, no problem. So separately with respect to the alternative funding sources, we internally have begun looking at other options
 We've not yet identified existing grant opportunities that could fund a similar program at no cost to our residents or businesses, but we do continue to work closely with our state and federal delegations to communicate our community's needs, including the resources needed to launch these kinds of energy efficiency and sustainability programs.
 Um, you know, we have a good climate in the federal government right now. There's no guarantees, but but we do understand this is one of our strategic goals. And so certainly at top of our mind when we're working with with our federal delegation and looking at some of the opportunities that may come down in the future.
 So in the absence of grant funding, it's important to keep in mind that any new program implemented, as you all well know, comes at a cost, whether it's an additional financial cost, such as through a proposed tariff like the one Texas Gas is proposing or through an opportunity cost or both.
 And so that's something that we'll consider if Council wants us to continue looking for options. But again, as I said, we will continue to work with our federal delegation to try to find future opportunities that might become available. So today, Council as a local regulator will need to decide whether to approve with revision to the effective date or deny the resolution authorizing Texas Gas to implement the proposed tariff.
 If a decision is not made prior to February 23rd because of the way the application is written and filed, the tariff will automatically go into effect. So we do need council to take an action today, whether that is to approve or deny the application. And as I said, we do have members of Texas Gas here who, if you all are ready, I'd like to invite them to speak and answer any questions that you may have.
 Let me ask you a question. Yes, Doug. When we talked last time, this was considered a rate hike because we're going to raise the rate of the gas payers. And this was taken in front of the PUC and the PUC because they don't hear, they didn't hear this, they actually rejected it.
 It will be based on our conversation that we had last time. We did say that as regulators, they're asking us to raise the gas rate on the citizens of El Paso, basically. And that's why they're coming to us because we're the regulators. Would that be correct? No, let me just correct a couple of things. So we are the local regulator, and so we do have the authority to approve or deny the request.
 Texas gas is actually regulated by the Railroad Commission. This is it. But how but this is a voluntary program. So when I say a voluntary program, it means that Texas gas is voluntarily proposing this program. There's no statutory requirement.
 that they put into place an energy efficiency program. It's entirely a voluntary issue. And because there is no statutory requirement, the City of El Paso makes the decision, not the Texas Railroad Commission. The City of El Paso makes the decision as to whether or not we're okay and comfortable with implementing the tariff required to fund the program. So
 It doesn't increase the rates, but it does introduce a tariff, which ultimately you'll see on your monthly bill. So I hope that answers. It does increase the gas bill. It will because it will be a new tariff on the bill. That's correct. Exactly. So basically the same thing. They're asking us to propose a rate hike to the taxpayers in the form of a tariff on their bill. Yes, sir.
 Okay, thank you for that. And now. Oh, sir, you're on mute. Oh, there I am. I don't know why it keeps going on mute. I think it's Mr. Schwartzwein. Hit me back with him, turning him off before I got elected. But this. So there is no questions. I know that this was presented by the gas company originally. And I have no, we have no questions for Mr.
 The gas company, Mr. Schwartzbein, did you raise your hand? But he didn't text me. Representative Salcedo? I'd raise my hand to talk. I'll send you the thing. Representative Salcedo? Thank you, Mayor. I'll let Representative Schwartzbein speak. He did have his hand up, and I think I texted you right after. Do you want to ask your questions, Representative? Sure.
 Yeah, I guess, I guess, you know, I know that that costs are a concern. I also know, too, that that our our community and our strategic plan call for us to have a strong resilience strategy calls for us to be more aggressive with looking at sustainability, looking at being more environmentally sensitive, you know, it's.
 One of the reasons why I had, you know, quite frankly, some troubles with with the El Paso electric thing is because I really wanted to see a commitment towards sustainability towards renewable energies. And it certainly got there. But again, it wasn't where I was comfortable with it.
 And so I'm kind of curious to hear from Ms. O'Hara, and I have to say, too, that El Paso Electric is making moves in the right direction, and I'm very excited about the solar regeneration study, which has nothing to do with what we're talking about here, except that it sort of does. Ms. O'Hara, I'm kind of curious if you could just sort of lay out why is this program ultimately important for El Paso and El Pasoans?
 I would be happy to answer your question. Thanks Representative Swartzwine. It's more like talking about all these sort of other things and what it would cost and everything. But ultimately at the end of the day, why is this program important for El Paso and El Pasoans?
 Sure. And I'd like to go ahead and use the storm that we are currently in to update you on communication that Texas Gas Service is putting out, because I think it really kind of helps bring the narrative together. As you all know, the rest of Texas is really very envious of El Paso right now because we have power, we have water and we have our natural gas.
 and we are seeing a lot of issues in other areas. Now, Texas Gas Service today does service areas in Central Texas, North Texas, and West Texas. And we reached out to our customers. So I give you this information because you may get some of that feedback from your customers. But what we have told them in today's communication is that the system is running exactly as it is meant to run. We have not lost any households in El Paso as a result of the weather.
 And so what we are telling people right now is that we are hearing from our suppliers in what is called upstream. So these are the suppliers, not Texas Gas Service, but the people who supply natural gas, the folks that would be in the Permian, for instance, that they are signaling that they're concerned about some of their equipment potentially having freezing issues. As you know, it is cold there and it's windy.
 And so what we have done is tell El Pasoans, we want to see if you pull back on your gas usage a little bit so that there's not as much of a demand for the suppliers. So, for instance, if you're mostly in your family room or in the kitchen, there's probably no need for you to have the heater on in a bedroom or in a front room.
 We're asking people to keep their curtains closed so that warm air doesn't leave through windows. So basically just walking El Pasoans through conservation tips so that there isn't as big a pool on the grid. Now, I'm giving all of that to you as background information so that I can explain a little bit about what's happening in Central Texas. And I promise I'm going to bring it back around to answer your question. What you're seeing in Central Texas and across North Texas is...
 It's really a problem when it comes to the electricity, where the electricity is having to be turned off and they're starting the blackouts right now because there's such a demand. As those neighborhoods and industries come back up, it can kick on a furnace.
 So you'll see in our communication today that we're telling people that if they experience, not necessarily here in El Paso, but if they were to experience an electric outage, we'd want them to give about 10 minutes before they flip on their furnace. And the reason for that, and you all as representatives will know, you know how when you plug in a plug into an outlet, you've got the little red and black little things that can pop out if you've put too much surge into that electricity? The same thing is happening in a much larger way.
 What can happen is that as the furnaces all come up into areas, it can be a big draw on the grid. Again, that's not happening for Texas gas, and we're very proud of the infrastructure that we have right now because it's doing, as I've said, exactly what it's doing.
 So I share all of that with you because that means that we do have people in El Paso who, whether we sent the communication to them or not, were already conserving natural gas. Because they were concerned about either their bill or maybe their furnace is old and it's just running all of the time and that's a concern for them.
 What we put before you is the tariff, which I've heard referred to as a tax increase. But for us, that tariff is what is creating the program by which we would be able to serve those very people who are currently not running their gas as much as they would, who perhaps are not running their hot water because then they would have a water bill as well as a natural gas bill.
 I did ask earlier if it would be possible to pull up a graphic because I think it kind of demonstrates a little bit about what it is that I'm talking about. So with your permission, I'd like to just pull up one small graphic that I think reiterates that plan. That'd be OK. Thank you. It's pulling up right now. You should be able to see a screen that says potential cost savings.
 So in this case, I didn't want to go too far and say, let's pretend we have a customer with a $100 gas bill. I made it a little bit more reasonable. Is Texas Gas Service asking for 72 cents more on the bill? Yes, we are. So let's take a customer who has a $50 and now 72 cent bill. They are meeting those low income thresholds. They are the very constituents that you all have told Texas Gas that you're worried about.
 What we would do is to get together with an agency. In this case, it could be Project Bravo, although there have been conversations about whether that could potentially be another agency. And they have their low-income home energy assistance program, the LAHI program.
 and there is a weatherization program. They qualify that customer, because Texas Gas does not qualify the customer, and it is determined that that customer needs a new natural gas appliance. In this case, let's say a furnace. After that furnace is given to them, we are not asking these low-income people to go out, buy the furnace, get the plumber, and then ask for the rebate. We handle all of that up front. They're out nothing.
 Their new bill in this instance could be $30.72.
 So did they pay 72 cents more in their monthly bill? Yes, they did. But they also saved $20. And $20 times 12 months in a year can be a significant cost savings. This is what it is that we're hoping council will understand as we put forth this program. Again, we're very excited about this program and we believe that it is a good one for council to go ahead and be a part of.
 The program, as Elizabeth Triggs mentioned, would bring in $650,000 that would come in as part of that weatherization program and be a complement to the existing program. That would be $650,000 times the three years of the program, which is about $1.9 million in low-income assistance. What I heard from Council in our last presentation was a couple of things.
 The cost was a concern and the timing was a concern. And again, I've spoken with some of you to be able to say that we think that as the vaccines are coming on, as people are coming into work, those were things that council expressed in the last meeting. And we believe that an obvious time frame would help to alleviate some of those fears. And again, you would also see very low gas prices. In the meantime...
 You all are aware that there are federal dollars that are now out there for utility assistance, which addresses the problem happening in 2021. The program that Texas Gas Service is putting before you not only addresses the concerns of those in 2021, but begins the foundation of addressing long-term energy needs going out through the next few years. As part of this program, Council would also have the opportunity yearly to be able to look at how it is going
 You heard Elizabeth say that when we initially proposed this to Council, we were looking at $300,000. And under the direction of staff, we increased that to more than double to $650,000. Again, there is flexibility within this program. So if Council needed us to direct more money into a different area, we have that ability. Thank you.
 We've mostly focused on this low-income portion because that's what council was the most concerned with. But insofar as rebates for residential customers who perhaps are not low-income but do want to go ahead and participate in the benefits of the program, that's where we have the residential rebates. So if they had the normal water heater but want to go to the tankless water heater, that allows them not only to save on their water bill but also on their gas bill.
 Same thing that would be available for low income. But in this case, instead of having the low income household member go out to get it, the resident would be available to get the rebate. And then as Elizabeth mentioned, there is a small commercial portion as well. So as commercial starts to get ramped up and we're really starting to see that take off, that could be very important as well.
 So again, we feel that, you know, when staff approached us in 2019 and asked us to put together something in partnership with the city of El Paso, that is what you are seeing now. We are hopeful that the program is going to be something that council not only will embrace for what it does today, but to your point, Representative Swartzbein, it's something that allows El Paso to start building out its future when it comes to energy efficiency. Thank you.
 Thank you, Ms. O'Hara, for your question. And how many people, Ms. O'Hara, would actually be impacted by this program in terms of that would be able to qualify for...
 So in working with Project Bravo and Jasmine King-Bush, who was the supervisor of our energy efficiency program, joins us this evening. She actually has power. She's joining us from Austin. So she may jump in here as well. In working with Project Bravo and asking them how many people we might be able to help with this complement of dollars that we would bring into the program,
 She said it really kind of depends because the weatherization program, you may go into a household that only needs one gas appliance that needs to be replaced, or you may have several. You may have a water heater, you may have a furnace, and you may have a stove.
 So it's really going to depend on the household, but she was surmising that we were probably looking at being able to help several hundred more El Pasoans every year. And that is different and aside from any utility assistance dollars that the federal government is providing to the city of El Paso. Jasmine, do you want to jump in? I do. I just also want to point out that the participation with Project Bravo is not required.
 as Liz was saying, to participate in the low-income program. So if there are other agencies that the city is partnering with or that the city has knowledge of and would like us to partner with, we are open to that, and we can work with them to utilize these funds also. Great. Well, thank you for the responses. I'm not allowed to talk anymore. Thank you. Thank you, both of you, for your presentation. We have Representative...
 And then I'll go to Representative Salcido. Thank you. I think Representative Salcido was before me. She likes to go last. Go ahead, please. Rodriguez. Well, thank you. Okay, so how many homes would you be servicing a year, you said?
 So the program is targeted to include the participation of about 200,000 Texas gas customers. The participation numbers for the free equipment program varies. Okay.
 I would estimate about 200 to 240 homes would be assisted, but that number is a very loose number because we do not have a cap for each home. So whether they just need a range or they need a range with a vent and some roof work to get the vent working, and they also need a water heater, we won't turn them away. There's no financial cap per home, so it's a little hard to estimate that.
 to give a firm number on that, but that's a rough estimation. Okay, and then how long would this program be in effect for? The program is... Go ahead, Jessica. The program is structured as a three-year program.
 It's a, it's structured as, I'm trying to get on my words because I don't know if my power is going to go out. Okay, I'm sorry. The program is structured as a three-year program. And so there's an annual review where we partner with the city to provide an annual report. We do that currently with the Central Texas area and the Rio Grande Valley area. We give a full report of information.
 water savings, homes assisted with the free equipment program, counts for all rebates distributed, as well as a full budget spend report. That's an annual reporting. And then the program is reviewed every three years. So if for some reason at the end of three years, we met with the city and the city says the program
 is not really what we want it to be, or it's not working, or we wanna move in a different direction, we at that time have a couple options. One, we could cease the program and spend the funds out until the funds are depleted, or we can cease the program and rebate the funds back to those that have paid into it. And Representative Rodriguez, we have, I believe Jasmine has the latest numbers and she's been looking at how the program was doing in Central Texas and RGB, if you would like that information as well. Sure.
 Yes. So enough power to do that. You said what now? Do you have enough power to do that? That's why I asked now so she could hurry up and get it out. Okay. I'll let you do that. So, uh, I'll give you, um, let's see. There we go. So right now, um, the program has seen
 $40,000 increase over where we were January of the previous year for Central Texas and Rio Grande Valley of usage. So we, in the month of January, have already distributed $40,000 in excess of where we were the previous year for the month of January. And we see that trend continuing. And overall customer reviews, what would you say? So we...
 don't take a satisfaction survey with regard to the program. We recently did receive some feedback through an effort that the city of Austin initiated and the main feedback, the main takeaways were we would participate if we knew more about it
 So we are revamping our marketing strategies right now. Actually, we're meeting with our ad agency and I'm meeting with my internal team to see what other ways we can get the word out, especially within the confines of the pandemic. We are limited to a lot of digital radio bill inserts. So we're looking at how we can maximize those channels. Yeah.
 I think also this is a feedback we've received, but this is something that I would like to see, and we're already working on that, is identifying other agencies that we can partner with, especially in the Rio Grande Valley. So we've been working more closely with the cities and not necessarily projects like Meals on Wheels or Aid Service Austin, where we can make sure that we have a great spin-through for the free equipment program.
 Okay, and the rate would increase to everybody across the city, or would it be kind of like our property taxes were like 65 and older, they have a certain, it would just be across to everybody? Yes, ma'am. It would be a flat rate across the residential customers of 72 cents, and then it would be a volumetric rate for your commercial customers within the service areas identified in the tariff as it was filed.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- And Representative Rodriguez also the cities of or the towns of Anthony Vinton San Elisario and Horizon City have already approved this.
 I will tell you, however, that it's really the success of this program and getting it off the ground is really going to depend on the City of El Paso. Those other areas are too small for us to really carry this program. So without City Council's backing on this, the region would not have an energy efficiency program from Texas Gas Service. Okay, and if approved, you all will be doing outreach to the community, correct? Marketing or?
 Yes. So we are already working on drafting a plan in the event that it is approved so that we can make sure that we can hit the ground running, so to speak. The,
 The first two orders of business would be getting those job repositions out so we can start identifying staff that would be located in El Paso. That would be an education outreach specialist whose sole goal is getting the word out and working with the community and the local agencies and leaders in the industries there, business, commercial, et cetera. And then also a technical specialist who would be the primary liaison for the free equipment and low-income program.
 Thank you. That is it. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Now, Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, for coming back so fast with this item. I have a couple of questions in regards to what are the requirements to qualify? Like you mentioned, too, you know, you mentioned lower income, but can you kind of walk me through that?
 Jasmine, do you want to pick that one up? Sure, I'll take that one. So we do not maintain the requirements for the participation in the low-income and free equipment program. We rely on the agencies that we partner with to do that. And the primary reasoning behind that is because they are familiar with the...
 median income requirements as set forth by the state and the government. And so we allow the agencies that we partner with to do what's called the vetting for us with regards to income qualification. And then they send the referral to us. We try to make it as as
 as effortless as possible for those that are participating. So we do the partnering with the contractors and the agency. We do follow up with those that have participated to make sure that their equipment is still in working order.
 we touch base with them to make sure that their participation, the process was smooth, and we answer any questions that they have. But we want to make sure that we want them taken care of, that this is not just kind of a turn and burn thing, but that we want to make sure that they're taken care of. And just for the public benefit, kind of walk me through the process. So I qualified. So what happens next?
 Okay, so you've gone to we're just gonna use Project Bravo because that's who we've met with most recently You've gone to Project Bravo and they said you qualify and they said, um Representative Salcido you qualify for a water furnace your water furnaces out And so they would set you up with ABC contractor ABC contractor would come to your home and do an assessment of exactly the work That's needed to be done to get you to working order They would write up
 estimate of work and they would send it to my education, I mean my technical specialist. My technical specialist would review it with them and schedule the work. While they're reviewing it, they're making sure that you are a Texas Gas customer, that the address is a relevant address, all of those things.
 and then they would schedule the work. They would work with you. ABC contractor will work with you to get the work done. Once the work is done, they contact us. They send us the invoice. We review the invoice to make sure that it matches what they said was the work that was needed. And then we, the invoice actually comes to me for review and approval
 to pay and then we submit it to our accounts payable department and the contractors pay directly. While that is going on, the technical specialist is reaching out to you to say, were you satisfied with ABC contractor? Did they come in? How is everything? Is your water furnace in working order? And then they also do follow up. There's not a predetermined amount of time for follow up, but the technical specialist does do follow up as well. Okay.
 In my last question, you mentioned the cost savings. You said for the initial investment to the program, then you would have a savings per home about $20 in the bill? So that was just my example, Representative. We could actually see savings that are actually much more significant than that, depending on what kind of energy bleed these different homes are having.
 So if you were looking at replacing a, let's say a furnace, we have all walked into the home where the furnace just kicks on every couple of minutes. It may smell a little bit like natural gas and it's just kind of been in the house forever. If that furnace gets replaced the following month, the person who was in that home will see the cost savings. So they might have had $100 a month gas bill and now all of a sudden it's $30 a month.
 If we replace a busted water heater, an inefficient water heater, and we go with a tankless water heater, now not only are they seeing the gas savings, but they're also seeing the water savings. So the savings per household is really going to vary depending on what kind of appliances we are replacing.
 And then earlier, when you were looking kind of for that definition of who qualifies, in this case, as Jasmine was talking, you know, we have been talking with Project Bravo. So they usually go with a federal guideline, which is 150% of poverty. In El Paso's case, that's a family of four with an income of $39,500. So that's going to be many of the constituents that we see across El Paso.
 Thank you so much for answering all my questions. I want to allow my colleagues to ask any questions they may have. And so I don't go over the 10 minutes. Thank you. Thank you very much for Ms. Bush. Ms. O'Hara for I know you sat through you've been here since 3 30 I saw you both on on this. So thank you for your patience and Ms. Bush please stay warm and please stay safe. And with that council that concludes questions and presentation is there a motion. We have a motion to approve. Second.
 We have a motion and a second. Ms. Crine? Yes, Mayor. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 30. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzweil.
 I think it's important. I know that things are really tough, but when we're talking about the sort of challenges that we're seeing across the state, we're seeing the challenges on individual homes, being able to have a program that can help the community and the taxpayer, I think is a really important one. And when we're talking about a good program that's helping with weatherization,
 and truly a low-income home energy assistance program, I think it's important that we lead on this. It shows our values as a community. It shows our passion as a community. And I think that the cost... That'd be a yes or no. So I will be supporting... That'd be a yes or no. Yes, sir.
 Thank you very much sir. I knew you were trying to get one more minute out of us. I could tell. I technically didn't take my second ten minutes. Representative. Thank you sir. And we have, and I didn't see we had a representative that had a question. So I'm going to stop real quick and I apologize for doing that. That's okay. Representative Nundas. Thank you Mayor. As I discussed in the past,
 You know I think under different conditions and a different state of our economy I think that this would be something I'd be happy to support. I'm still happy to have that discussion in a rate case but at this time I cannot support this. And as I mentioned previously at our previous meeting my concerns still hold today. Thank you for your effort. Thank you for your time meeting with us.
 I do agree that it's a good project. I just think the conditions All together holistically for our community. It's just it's very difficult right now. Thank you representative. Thank you Miss prime. Yes mayor of representative shorts prime voted aye representative anello I
 Yeah very quickly I'm sorry may I also want to say you know I I completely agree with Representative Schwartzbein also you know I represent an area with very old homes low income areas with very old homes that do not have the ability to make these very necessary changes and so I think there are a lot of positive aspects to this so I am voting yes. Representative Hernandez. No. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez.
 You know what, I'm also having a lot of difficulty with this. I think it is a great project and your example of what's going on in the rest of the state really tugs at my heartstrings, especially knowing that a lot of people
 could benefit from this program. However, I just don't think it's the right time. I don't know if maybe y'all can consider not charging people 65 and older. I don't know something along those lines and maybe at that point I could get on board. But for that reason, I have to say no. Thank you. Representative Rivera. It is rather difficult at this time, during this time that I think my colleagues have said it best. I'm gonna have to vote no at this time. And Representative Elizalde. No.
 Mayor, we have a tie. And I vote no. And the motion fails. Representatives Schwarzbein, Anelo, Molinar, Salcido voting aye. Representatives Hernandez, Rodriguez, Rivera, Lizárraga voting nay. And the mayor breaks a tie voting nay. The motion fails. And the reason I voted no, I agree with Representative Hernandez that right now it's not the time for red tape. And I've been very consistent with my message
 through the PSB board today. So that's the same reason. So thank you all. And again, thank you Ms. O'Hara and Ms. Bush for your time and your patience and for coming here. Thank you. And with that, Point of order, Mr. Pike. Mayor, point of order. Is this something that a program like this be brought back during our next rate case hearing? No, they had a deadline of February 23rd, sir. Well, good luck for those families out there.
 I can clarify very, very quickly, though, that there is nothing that prevents Texas Gas from coming back.
 You know, I understand that the vote was no, but we can always continue working with them, which I think is something important to do. Look, we have a red case. It is part of our strategic plan. You know, we do have our resiliency plan that's baked into our strategic plan. And it seems these— And that's why we wanted to see if there was a different way. And I think Ms. Trigg said that there's still different ways that our federal government may be able to help us and give us some funding. So we'll look at it and continue to look at it.
 And thank you again. And Ms. Prine, can we go to our next item? Yes, sir, the next item is item 31. This is discussion in action on a street infrastructure comprehensive update presentation. This is something that the council has asked for, for us to come back and give you periodic updates on our street plan. And so staff has worked this up in order to continue that program and continue the communication process with you. So I'll let the team,
 start the presentation. I think that's Valley View. Hi, Henry. Yes, good evening, Mayor and City Council. Jeff Howell, Capital Permit Department. Item 31 on the agenda is an update on the street infrastructure programs and some of the other programs as they relate to streets. And so I'm also going to be going over the Pavement Condition Index as well. I'll then turn it over to Sam for a street operations update
 Since some of this information was already covered in yesterday's capital improvement plan presentation, there are also more detailed slides that include both resurfacing and reconstruction, as well as the various capital plans, but are included after the closing slide to provide additional backup to this item.
 As previously has been noted, streets continue to be a high priority for the community. Streets also impact many of the components of the city's strategic plan. Streets facilitate the movement of both people and goods, but at the same time provides for safety, promotes the visual image of the city, and impacts the quality of life for both residents and visitors. So since 2017, a lot of progress has been made, and things continue to look up in terms of investment for streets.
 We have invested about $135 million since 2017, and we are projecting to invest another $47 million through the remainder of this year. Since April of last year, we invested about $46 million in streets, and in the next two years, we are projecting to invest about $127 million through FY23.
 As you can see, we are projecting investments to continue through FY23 with a large portion going toward reconstruction, a significant portion still going toward street resurfacing and traffic safety as well.
 You can see the investment in streets between 2007 and 2016, that within those 10 years, only about $74 million was invested in streets. You can see here in this bar chart that it was very low 15 years ago, and still remained fairly low after 2013. However, since 2017, you can see a large uptick in spending. Also from 2017 through the next two years, we're projecting $262 million of investment in streets, so over three times the amount in less time than before.
 And so to give a summary and an update on some of these programs, I'll briefly touch on the 2012 street C. I. P. And resurfacing to provide a little history on the program in June of 2012. City Council approved
 over $218 million for street improvements. However, things didn't get off to a rapid start. Between 2012 and 2016, only one project was completed, and only about $52 million was spent during that four-year timeframe as well. Things all changed in 2016 with the recalibration of the CIP by City Council, which took into account observations and input from the public. A dedicated funding source was also created, and the City Council had greater oversight of the CIP implementation.
 A year later, City Council approved the expediting of arterial resurfacing and street reconstruction projects as well. And one thing to also note is that prior to COVID, things were scheduled to be completed by 2021.
 And so just again to provide some background on the 2012 CIP, as I mentioned, this was initially approved in 2012. However, for the first four years of the program, very little progress was made. Only one project in those four years was completed, and it wasn't until 2016 that things began to accelerate, and additional projects each year began getting completed and more projects going through the design process. And to illustrate that, since February of last year, 16 additional projects have been completed.
 And so with regards to street resurfacing, and you saw some of these slides yesterday, these are the active street resurfacing projects. Almost all of the 2012 street resurfacing projects are completed, of which there are only four streets left that are in progress or programmed. So over 98% complete and 370 streets completed.
 With regards to the arterial resurfacing program, almost all of these are complete as well with seven arterials completed and just a portion of one arterial remaining. So about over 95% complete with that overall. And also with regards to the street resurfacing, these are the two programs that I wanted to briefly provide a summary for. The residential street resurfacing that was approved in 2018 for $7 million included FY 2019 and FY 20 streets.
 Of this, about 39% of residential streets have been completed with 63 remaining that have been programmed. These remaining streets were deferred to FY22, and those that were identified in FY21 and FY22 were deferred to FY23 and 24, respectively. The other program I wanted to mention is the $3 million annual funding for collectors program.
 For FY20, these collectors were completed, and as there were two streets on that list, for FY21, 22, and 23, a total of eight collectors are programmed, which are on schedule to be completed. And so now moving on to the PCI. PCI, or Pavement Condition Index, is data that is collected to assess collection.
 The general condition of pavement. This is a tool that can be used to prioritize streets and has been previously mentioned before that was used to assist in generating the list of streets for the resurfacing programs that just went over. It also is necessary to be evaluated regularly to assist in the forecasting of future improvement plans.
 And so as a result of the 2018 PCI study, here are the results. Less than 50% of the street network has a PCI of over 70. For PCI, best practices are that the average PCI of 70 or above should be our goal. Also, it is recommended that we spend a portion of the budget to keep good pavement in good condition. There should be also a plan to improve road conditions and find cost-effective
 treatments to improve those pavement conditions. And so there are a few slides later on that do talk about some alternative treatments in more detail.
 And to illustrate the value of maintenance and the lifespan of pavement, here's a quick graphic. After the initial installation of pavement, condition goes down over time. This condition can be improved with preventative maintenance, however, bringing that condition back up. However, if left untreated at some point, maintenance that's reactive can only do so much. So by that time, the pavement may be so far degraded that the most costly repair, which is reconstruction, is required.
 Again, streets have been and continues to be a high priority for the community. $44 million is what is estimated to be needed in order to keep street pavement condition index at or above 70. City Council has approved $7 million annually to go for residential streets in 2018. And in 2019, City Council approved $3 million annually for street resurfacing for collectors. Thank you.
 And so to illustrate PCI around the city, an online viewer has been created. A link to this viewer is provided at the bottom of this slide. However, just to illustrate that, I do have it already pulled up here. And so you should be able to see this, which is the website that's provided at the bottom of that slide, which does provide an interactive viewer, as I mentioned, to the payment condition. It does have a graph here showing the different payment conditions throughout the city and what this map does.
 is it allows you to freely navigate the map, but it also allows you to put in an address to see the pavement condition of the adjacent roadway that's been assigned to the adjacent parcel in which it's addressed from. So just to illustrate it, you're able to go zoom in in an area, click on a different parcel, and it's able to show the adjacent roadway pavement condition index
 And so what you'll notice is that the pavement condition at or above 70 is denoted in the green color, and so you're able to see the different conditions there. And so, again, that is provided on the link there at the bottom of this slide. So back in 2008, a PCI study was conducted as shown here in this map. As you can see, there are large areas of the city that are green, and the average PCI is above 75.
 When another PCI study was conducted in 2018, just 10 years later, the average PCI came down about 10 points. You can see that the areas that remain in green are those areas where new development is occurring, which is on the fringes of the city. Here's a breakdown of the average PCI by district. Again, the districts that have the highest PCI numbers are those where new development is occurring, which are primarily districts 1, 4, and 5.
 This graphic is to illustrate an example of different investment scenarios. Beginning in 2018 when the PCI was conducted, it would take an estimated amount of $44 million to maintain an average PCI at or above 70 over the next 20 years. As you can see, as investment goes down, PCI also goes down over time.
 And so as mentioned earlier, in looking for cost effective alternative treatments for pavement, the streets and maintenance department are looking into options. These options, these optional treatments include flurry sealing, pressure sealing, and HA5, which is a type of mineral bond. If you recall in the graphic I showed earlier, treatments such as these can be used to preserve and extend the life of pavement.
 In doing this, if treatments are applied, it can extend the life of payment by up to seven years.
 And so as a cost comparison, with some surface treatments, the average cost is about $3.50 per square yard. However, resurfacing costs are about $23 per square yard, while reconstruction, as stated earlier, is the most expensive at $150 per square yard. As an example, if a surface treatment were to be applied to a 100-mile stretch with a cost of $6.5 million, in comparison, the cost to resurface that road is about seven times that amount and could be delayed by up to seven years.
 And so now moving on to MPO projects that are in progress. Street improvements can be done with the help of federal funding that can utilize city match funds that can range up to 20% of the overall cost by leveraging city funds for the improvements needed by the community. This can help stretch city dollars further. A more in-depth presentation on this will be provided at a later City Council meeting. This is a quick snapshot of the street improvement projects that are currently in progress and where they are in the design, bidding, and construction process.
 Here are the projects as well with their breakdown in terms of the project type, the scope, and their status as well. Some of these projects, as you'll notice, are identified in the capital plan project lists further on in the presentation and in the presentation yesterday as well. And here are a few more projects with their status, which include bridge reconstruction and other infrastructure projects.
 And now moving on to the CDBG projects. Here are two CDBG street projects which include Fort Boulevard and Trow Bridge. As with both of these projects, they are estimated to begin construction this year. And so now I'll turn it over to Sam to provide a street operations update. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is City Engineer. Next slide, please.
 Unfortunately, Richard couldn't be here today. Part of the discussion that was centered in the operations side, Mayor and City Council, kind of centered around the vacancies and what's been defunded and what we have up to date.
 We're going to be working very closely with Nicole Codio and Robert Cortinas to look at the defunded positions to be able to bring those back in some of the scenarios that was discussed yesterday, 35, 65, and 100%, really to bring up the whole operational budget back as a whole as well. Next slide. Okay.
 Just to give you a snapshot of where we're at based on our current working conditions on the street maintenance side, the prioritization has gone to pothole patching, base failures, really keeping the safety of the public as we move forward. Then the street median before we were doing biweekly
 location maintenance. Now we're doing at least every three weeks. So again, just based on the resources that we have out there. And the sweeping program is behind for about two months. The traffic engineering division is prioritizing the CR request, as well as the traffic control permits that continue to come in. Of course, we have the NTMP and the planning process that's also working its way through the backlog on their workload as well.
 And the streetlight maintenance is a big concern. We have over 2000 work orders that are open. A lot of those are with El Paso Electric contracts. We're working very closely with them to get these streetlights replaced throughout the community.
 The parkland maintenance, again, prioritize all safety-related work orders, irrigation work orders, trying to make sure that those things are functional so that we're able to save on the water and be able to keep the irrigation systems functional.
 the traffic control infrastructure maintenance. The signal divisions have also priority on that in that it provides the safety measures to keep the intersection safe for our area. The facility maintenance group has been focused or has been reported with the COVID response CFT really focusing on facilities and upgrading those to ensure that we got the proper PPE, the modifications to the HVAC systems to be able to clean the air properly.
 into each one of our facilities. And, of course, the contract management on the resurfacing side, because of the deferment of a lot of the resurfacing projects, especially the $7 million residential, a lot of those employees have moved over to operations and facilities in support of those functions as well. Next slide.
 This is the pothole repair and what we have to date. We've been working again very closely to try to keep that up. If you remember, we, through the Streets and Maintenance Department, did an LSS project to be able to go from 37,000 pothole repairs in 2018 up to 76,000 potholes last year. But that 76,000 potholes also is a reflection of our street condition that Jeff just went over here a little while ago. Next slide.
 As Jeff mentioned, there's a lot of backup with all the lists of all the projects that's included as part of this backup for you to share with your constituencies, as well as for your information. We'd be happy to answer any questions. And we have no questions. Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Howell, you both did a great job on the presentation, and there is no questions. Super excited about the PCI map. I'm sorry? Yeah.
 I'm very excited about the PCI map. Thank you for making that live. Definitely. We'll send that out to to by email as well. Thank you. Thank you again. And then we go to the next item. Yes sir. Item number 32 is an update on round five of the neighborhood improvement program. Good evening members of the city council. This is Nicole Rodriguez with community and human development and tonight I'm here to provide. Okay sorry I am
 All right. Can you all see my screen? Yes, ma'am. Okay. So tonight I'm here to provide an update on round five of the Neighborhood Improvement Program. So the NIP program is intended to give registered neighborhood associations the opportunity to apply for small-scale improvement projects in the neighborhood. And NIP projects can be small-scale, stand-alone projects or can supplement existing infrastructure by providing additional amenities and aesthetic appeal.
 And so I'm just going to walk you all through just a brief timeline of the NIP program. It was established in 2006 as part of the creation of our Neighborhood Services Program. There were three earlier rounds of NIP between 2007 and 2011.
 And then in 2012, the Quality of Life Bond included 10 million for the continuation of the NIP program. So we've awarded four previous rounds under the Quality of Life Bond. And so what I'm here to talk to you about today is the opening of the fifth and final round that will exhaust that 2012 allocation. And so the 2012 Quality of Life Bond has been instrumental in funding 53 projects in previous rounds to date.
 And there were in the previous round, we actually awarded 19 projects. And so to date, we have spent $6 million for these neighborhood improvement projects. And most notably, we've been able to award 48 different recognized neighborhood associations. And we really hope to grow that number in the opening of round five.
 And so, as I mentioned before, NIP gives the registered neighborhood associations an opportunity to request, you know, small scale public infrastructure projects, you know, that really enhance their neighborhood. Some examples of projects and previous projects that we've done have been anywhere from ADA improvements, curb cuts.
 some speed cushions, wayfinding, and just various different park amenities that the neighborhood associations have identified as a priority. And so there's a total of $4 million allocated for round five. We set 25% of this for CID to do our construction management.
 Um, each so that will leave each of the districts with 375,000 and that is to be competitive amongst the neighborhood associations. And then if there's any previous unallocated funds from previous rounds, we'll roll that over into the current round. Um, and so I should note that any money that has been allocated within the district remains in the district.
 So in regards to our application process, it's really in three phases. We have the pre-application process, the design lab, and then the final application. The pre-application process serves two purposes for us. It allows us to see what kind of interest we've got, and it allows us to see what kind of projects are being proposed.
 We've also added a design lab to this process. You know, we believe that combining the pre-application and then following up through the design lab will serve as like, you know, a white glove service to our neighborhood associations. We just want to focus on the pre-planning effort so that we can begin to work together.
 with the various user departments and connect them to the neighborhood associations. Because ultimately we really want to achieve the vision of the neighborhood associations, but remain within their budgets.
 And so we want to work with them and do a lot of the work at the pre-planning stage so that we can arrive at a final project design. And it's been at that moment, it will have been fully vetted by the user departments. And really, that's just to help us amplify the project impact. And so...
 Those two things combined, you know, we really haven't come up with a design lab date because we don't anticipate it being, I know, you know, it's not plural in, you know, on the slide here, but we intend to have multiple design labs based off of the demand.
 And so we haven't set a date because we, you know, we intend to work with the public as best as we can. And then we're going to go ahead and open the final application starting April 5th, and we'll close them Friday, June the 4th. And so now I'd like to turn it over to our chief architect, Daniela Quesada, who's been, you know, an integral part of helping us design this application review process that will help us better serve our neighborhoods.
 Thank you Nicole. Good evening Mayor and Council. Daniela Quezada for Capital Improvement. Just as Nicole mentioned we've really put in a lot of emphasis on the pre-planning side of the application process for round five.
 And so once we start receiving the pre-applications, we'll have a better idea of how many workshops we're going to have with the neighborhood associations, the kind of design review we'll have to do to again identify what the project intent is, if the project scope is meeting that intent, and what we could do to make the project application more impactful for their neighborhood.
 So in assisting with the final application, we'll be able to then move on to developing the preliminary cost estimates once all those come in. We've already had a first view of the scope of the projects, but once we have the final applications, we'll have a secondary internal review, which will include all the user departments.
 At that point, we'll review the scopes of the proposed projects for feasibility or constructability issues and how these might impact the scope. So we have to revise the scope to best meet both the preliminary cost estimate and the overall intent of the project. And this is when we start doing a lot of the tweaking for that.
 At this point, then we'll move over to project scoring. And once the projects are being ranked, we'll be able to then do a final scope of work review, a final cost estimate. So again, all the applicants and the city were on the same page as to what the project application entails and what that final product will look like.
 That final scope and cost estimate along with the project rankings move over to legal review and will be presented to Council for final approval.
 Upon council approval, then we'll be able to move to the procurement process, which we anticipate will be through on-call contractor. But I think we'll be able to have a better idea of what that will look like once we start even getting into the pre-planning phase, which includes the pre-application. And so we'll give you more information on that once we present all the final projects for your approval. And once we get the contract procurement going, then we'll start our projects online.
 And I think with that, I'll take it back to Ms. Nicole. So, you know, thank you, Mayor, Council, everyone. You know, we know what this program means to our neighborhood associations, and we know what it means to your districts. And so with that, we'll conclude this presentation and take any questions you all may have. Thank you very much for your presentation. And we do have Representative Molinaud.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I just want to let you know that I really don't have any questions, but as a recipient of several projects that were completed through NIP in previous rounds, I got to say our neighborhood association benefited immensely
 different times and also I can tell you different other neighborhood associations within district 4 have applied and received Good work from them. So kudos to the neighborhood services division. I believe in this program the NIP I'm glad to see round 5 come to fruition. Thank you Yes, sir, the next item is number 33 and
 This is discussion in action on a resolution to appoint a member to the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board of Trustees in the area of expertise of financial management as recommended by the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board Selection Committee. I would like to make a motion to appoint Lisa Sines. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second.
 to appoint miss lisa jay signs on that motion mayor pro tem shortline aye representative anello hi hernandez yes the motion passes unanimously the final item is number 34 this is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the expenditure of general fund savings
 from District 6 to the City's Economic Development Department for use in supporting the El Paso Small Business Emergency Relief Program. Motion to approve? Second. Mayor, may I say something? Yes, please. Thank you. Thank you. So today's a very special day for me for two reasons. Number one, today is my one year anniversary since taking office as District 6 City Representative.
 Also today is my 36th birthday and I couldn't be prouder and more humble than to spend this day in company of my community city staff mayor and council. Thank you all for embracing me as a colleague and to the members of our community and more specifically District 6 for trusting me with all of the challenges of the past year. It is for this reason that I have decided to donate this money to LIFT Fund so they may process 10 grants of $1,000 each to help small businesses within my district.
 And while I'm fully aware that this donation is limited in comparison of the need I humbly offer it back to my community to instill hope within the small businesses. I would also like to let the small businesses business community know that in me you all have an ally and your success is in the best interests of our city. I wish everyone much needed relief hope and peace.
 May we come out stronger and more prosperous. To all those who have lost loved ones, my heart and prayers are with you. May you be comforted and may you be restored. We've got this, and I love you, El Paso. Thank you. Happy birthday and congratulations. Happy birthday. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm very, very proud to be working with you, and thank you for your leadership and look forward to the next year.
 couple years with you. Same here. Thank you all very much. Thank you. And I mean it. This is the best birthday I got to spend it with you guys. It was cool. It was different. And I think Rep. Moulinar wanted to sing happy birthday to you. I saw him kind of ready over there. How about yes? You're muted. You're muted. Oh, thank you. That's sweet. Thank you all. And with that, Ms. Pine.
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 34 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine not present, and happy birthday, Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you all very much. Have a good night.
 16-2021 is adjourned at 8.27 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you. God bless. Bye-bye. Happy birthday. Happy birthday. Thank you. Bye. Happy birthday, Claudia. Thank you, Joe. Bye.