Thank you for employing people across our city and across our region. Your commitment to El Paso is a positive one, and we look forward to growing with you in these years ahead. Thank you, and congratulations. Thank you, Representative. Appreciate, again, your ongoing support for all our projects as well, and your leadership. We can't do... There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 11.12 a.m.
 That brings us to page number seven to item number 19 and this is discussion in action to direct the city manager to create a process to proactively and regularly address illegal dumping and to come back within 75 days to present costs and an implementation strategy. And this was placed by representatives and hello Molly not and Lisa representative. Anello thank you. Miss prime so.
 i put this item myself and my colleagues put this item up because there's been a clear issue with the legal dumping across the city um i know there's a presentation in the backup if anybody wants to look at that that's just some examples and there's been a lot of conversation with staff after posting this item and kind of a conversation about crs versus 311 and i want to be really clear
 that's not what we're talking about here I think that there's you know multiple situations happening I think we are hearing from constituents we're reporting this to 3-1-1 and it's not getting picked up and we're calling over and over and then there is the issue that somebody will call it in and then they will be fined for this illegal dumping on their property and then
 then they'll take it to court and they'll have to fight it. And they're like, why did I even bother to call it in if I'm going to be fined? And then there's just, you know, I was talking to Representative Molinar about this item and the pictures he put in the backup, you know, he drove around and saw them. He didn't call those into 311. He didn't put them into CR. And I think that's a really important point to make because I think that there are members of this community who have just,
 adapted to living with illegal dumping in their neighborhoods that they've just accepted that this is a part of the community that they live in that they don't even call it in anymore they don't complain about it they just live with trash or mattresses and and all furniture in their backyards or in their alleyways because it becomes more of a hassle to try to get it
 And so I don't think that this is, we didn't put this item up, or at least I did not put this item up to call out a certain department. I did it because I think we're realizing there's a real quality of life issue in the city. I was asked by staff, you know, what was the solution that I would see? And I don't think that that's appropriate or my role to do so. I'm asking staff to look at alternative plans to deal with this in a more proactive way and present that to council and to have the conversation about
 are we doing this correctly? Is there a better way? And how can we improve people's quality of life? Because, again, I want to reiterate what I said earlier. I think that there are people in this community who have just –
 just agreed to live with illegal dumping in their neighborhood because it's easier than trying to deal with it and it's something that they've Accepted is a part of the city of El Paso and that's not something that we should be proud of And so I look forward to this item passing. I think my colleagues For supporting this I know that they have a lot of these issues and their districts and they they want to talk about that as Well, but I just I think that we can do better
 think that we can do better for our community I think that we can allow our constituents to be proud of the places that we live in and it is our role to help them through this so thank you thank you representative Molinar and then if representative Lozarga or representative Hernandez would like to text me the mayor is left for the
 Mayor Pro Tem, thank you very much for allowing me to speak on this topic. Yes, thank you very much for Representative Nello, Representative Lazardo supporting this issue as well. So to me there's several things going on here. Of course I'm gonna talk more primarily about District 4. And so we did have a citizen one point that lives in an area there off the 10900 block of Stonebridge, Stonebridge and Angora Loop.
 And that's where the site of the connection will soon be, hopefully for the Angora Loop-Sean-Haggerty connection. Nevertheless, in 2021, he reported through 311 the illegal dumping that was happening in that area. And he did it multiple times. And, of course, having done it multiple times, he would get those things there and it was closed. So it would raise his frustration level. Nevertheless, his parents were cited.
 And they were given notice saying that, hey, they're owed so much money. So, of course, they reached out to my office, and that was taken care of. That was clarified. Now, fast forward here, 2022. So the problem still exists. I physically went out there and could not really determine how they got into that place. But nevertheless, there is two different photos that depict the –
 the trash, the debris, the illegal dumping in District 4. And so, yes, I did go ahead and meet with that constituent, and he continues to tell me it's an ongoing problem. He has reported this issue to 311 multiple times, and it's still there.
 The other, let's go back approximately two weeks ago, I did take from, let's say the state line, or excuse me, not the state line, the Edge of Texas restaurant, which is over there, the furthest north in El Paso, and I drove south on Dyer.
 And so on Dyer, there's different debris. There's discarded tires out there. There's tree branches. I made the left-hand turn onto a railroad, and the same thing. More tree branches, more tires, more debris, discarded furniture, and littering on both sides of the street. I drove all the way to Loop 375, and it's the same throughout that.
 I could do a major CR4 for all that, but no, I did not. However, it continues, it continues. People just take it upon themselves to discard their trash in different places, thinking they're not going to get caught, thinking nothing's going to happen. The other thing, too, and I'm not going to disparage anybody here, but that certain constituent, he did meet with a code enforcement officer. I don't know what their conversation was, but he made it clear, hey, I am the one reporting this illegal dumping.
 what that code enforcement officer did or did not do, I don't know. Maybe she was there for the right reason. Maybe she wasn't for another call. Maybe she just had to check her MDT or something. I really don't know. But either way, in District 4, it is a huge problem. And I'm only talking about this morning about two different incidents, two different areas south of the Angora Loop and Stonebridge and up and down Dyer and Railroad.
 Thank you very much. I would ask the city representatives to support this item. Thank you. Okay, we have Representative Zarga. Thank you, Mayor Pro Temp. There's that echo again. I'm sorry. I apologize. Rep. Anello, thank you so much for putting this item on the agenda.
 Are you going to be presenting your slides? Because I wanted to make some comments on the slide. One of the slides we have. I wasn't going to but we can ask IT to pull up your slide. OK. Yeah. Could IT pull up my slide the slide that Matthew submitted on this item.
 So so while they're doing that, I just I did have some comments. You know, I know that the environmental services staff has been diligent on this topic and that we have made some big strides in recent years on illegal dumping. I do think that there are some small areas for improvement.
 The photos in this presentation are from a unique location that is on the New Mexico side of the McNutt Bridge over the Rio Grande, but still within the El Paso city limits. Can you see? IT, can you go through the slides? Can you bring the... I'll tell you when to stop. Next slide. Next slide. It's hard to see. I like it. Slide six. Sorry. Okay. So you got those.
 You can see the state line in red and how it cuts through the edge of the City of Sunland Park's neighborhood, leaving a few of the homes and the western bank of the river in the City of El Paso. Prospective illegal dumpers have definitely caught on to the unique circumstances of this location, and there is frequent dumping there. My counterpart on the Sunland Park City Council has reached out for help several times, and we have shown them and their constituents in the area
 how to request cleanup via our 311 system. This is the type of specific location targeted by repeat offenders where simply cleaning the mess isn't necessarily enough, where we could stand to be more proactive, be that with signage, barriers, cameras, or some other solution.
 Separately, I also want to read this email that I received just yesterday from one of my constituents. I believe completely coincidentally to this item being placed on the agenda. So this is the letter. I want to bring to your attention a problem with the way the city is handling the reporting of illegal dumping.
 We had an individual dump some limbs and branches next to our warehouse in the Five Points area. It happened on January 22nd and was recorded on our security cameras. This will be the third time this has happened near our shop. I look up how to report this and everything I found said to call 311. So I did.
 They took the report from me on Monday morning, the 24th. Later that same day, the same individual dumped more limbs in the same spot. I called 311 to amend the report. They were informed that I had video of the incident and had located the individual as they lived a block away.
 After three weeks of nothing happening, a code enforcement officer came by the warehouse and issued us a warning that we would be cited for the mess.
 That's the constituent writing this letter to me. This office called me to inform me of the situation. When I explained to him that I had already located the individual and had him on camera, he said that was a criminal matter and had to file a police report. In the meantime, I was now liable for the mess.
 I filed a report online, but the police department called me and said that since I had evidence of the crime, I would need to have an officer come by to take the report in person.
 Now, I am well aware of how far down the list of priorities this is, and I knew that it would be a while before anyone showed up. In the meantime, the clock was ticking on my warning received from the city. I spoke with a friend that manages commercial properties and mentioned my predicament, and he said they always call the constables. He contacted them on my behalf, and they sent out an officer that day.
 The suspect has been located and the legal process is now being forward, moving forward, excuse me. The point I'm trying to make is that I did everything the city wanted me to do to help with illegal dumping, even giving them the suspect where he lived and video evidence. Yet they sent out someone that issues me warning about the mess.
 On top of that, I still have to clean it up, and I hope to get restitution for the expense of cleanup from the suspect. There has to be a better way if you really care about stopping this sort of behavior. I have attached a copy of the notice, a screenshot of the 311 info, and a picture of the actual crime taking place.
 And that's the end of his letter. So I think this is another issue that we need to address. The constituent followed every correct procedure and has still not seen a satisfactory resolution. Thank you, Representative Anello and Representative Molinar. And I hope that my council members will support this item. Thank you, Mayor Pro Temp.
 i think this this issue of legal dumping it it sort of shows itself out in different ways in different parts of our districts one of the things that i've heard about is with relaying towards the sort of cleanliness of
 of new developments that, you know, essentially the deserts around new developments become defaco dump sites because the materials that are on new housing construction aren't being basically taken care of and the wind blows off and then you have large parts of construction sites that end up going into the desert, going on ocotillos and cactuses and other things like that. So I think that that's something as well
 that an item like this should address is understanding too what we can do to make sure that with new construction sites that
 there is an ability for these companies to make sure when they're building these new homes to secure those materials that are there as well. Another issue that I've heard about as well, and I do want to applaud districts two, eight, and four for placing this up, is ongoing issues relating to some of our most iconic facilities. For example, with Scenic Drive,
 We receive from our office probably every three to six months a complaint about the sort of bottles and other refuse that's thrown. And there's times where without even awareness of my office or of members of code compliance for the city, there's Boy Scout troops that go out and pick up some of the trash that's in that area.
 um i'm kind of curious i don't really know from the other representatives are these sites that that y'all are referencing are these public or private property where the dumping is occurring or is it both so i think representative schwarzman yes represent milliner um the two photos on slide number five they're dead city property
 but it's not just immune to that i selected two different areas but it's the same thing on mccombs on martin luther king on dyer near mesquite hills north hills different areas of district four okay um i think part of what would also help too with this item is to also understand what what this when coming back from staff what the city can do in terms of enforcing
 dumping on private property as well. What's the mechanism that currently exists to curtail that behavior? I understand there's probably limitations about what the city can do in terms of going on to private properties, but I think it would probably benefit this council and the public to understand that as well.
 Hold on Ellen I hadn't heard about this till I just read heard Deputy Pro Tem Lizardico outline that letter I do know that the points made about 3-1-1 I am going to reach out to that area and talk to not only Mario D'Agostino because that's a comms issue under the
 the reporting relationship but also with Robert Cortinas with regard to that contract in terms of what's in the contract relative to how they provide customer service and feedback and how that aligns with what we do as an organization. In addition to that, Ellen does have a response to your question with regard to what can be done with reference to what they're doing now. And also I understand the agenda item in terms of what to bring back but Ellen if you might
 give a little context to to that response yes um thank you if i could just have a few minutes of your time i wanted to kind of go over what we already do just to explain you know the context of the municipal code um let me show my screen um
 So there's illegal dumping on residential private property. And so the residential private property is typically broken into two areas. One is a homestead property.
 and the other is rental or second homes or businesses, that type of a home. And so the original complaints are treated the same. The PD code officers will provide notice to the owner and they have seven days to correct the situation.
 And so the only difference at the end of the day, when we send a bill to both of these residences, the people who have a homestead exemption, if at the end of the day, they don't pay their bill, we are not able to put a lien on the property because the homesteads are protected. On the other hand, if a rental or second home that's not under the homestead exemption receives one of our bills,
 After the third notice that they don't pay it, we do put a lien on the property. So eventually the city recovers the cost of the service that we provided to clean up those properties. We also have an ordinance in place that's been there many, many years for the repeat offender
 and that's if a property has weeds or any type of issue in the same calendar in the same 365 day year not calendar year but a rolling 365 days we can go in and clean it without notification and just send them the bill so we put that in place because there were so many repeat offenders
 The example that Representative Liz Arga just read off would be considered a court case, although that's not residential. It would fall under the commercial property to where it has to go through the municipal courts to be addressed. And so those are the ones that typically end up on vacant lots or big parking lots.
 The public property on the other side of the coin is owned by a lot of different public entities. The city, the county, the state general land office, EPWU, TxDOT, and Fort Bliss are the biggest public property owners that we have here.
 And so if it's a city property, we have over 2,000 vacant lots or vacant properties in the city that we own. And if there's ever a problem on a city property, we will go clean it immediately. I do have a database. It's a rotating cleaning schedule. So hopefully those situations don't come up very often.
 The county, we do notify them when it's on their property, and they could do better, they could be faster, but ultimately they do clean their property. The state GLO, most of that property is way out on the far county areas. They have not too many of their properties are within the city limits. The water utility is very responsive as well. They respond when we call them. I can't speak to their,
 proactive situation, but they do respond when we call them. TxDOT, because of the safety considerations with the traffic, frontage roads on the freeway,
 They have to bring their traffic control crews in to help with the illegal dumping situations. And because of their limited resources, they could do better. They could do a better job along their frontage roads. But ultimately, they do show up and take care of whatever side it may be. And then Fort Bliss, their biggest area is that District 4 area.
 continuous area along Railroad and Dyer Drive where they have their fence line is kind of, you know, considered a remote area of town. There's not a lot of there's no no property improvements. And so that that is a hotspot. And we recognize that we do have hotspots like the one that that both represent Luz Argonne and represent Molinar described.
 On the commercial property, the railroads is one of the other really preferred areas of dumping, right along the railroad tracks. But they have asked us not to clean their property, just to call them and they will do it. And again, because of safety issues.
 And then we have utility easements in place with all of the electric company, gas company, and cable companies. And so if there's any illegal dumping along a utility easement, we have contacts at each of these places and they'll come and respond immediately.
 The process, what you're talking about and why it takes so long is it gets reported and code officers will go out and then they identify the owner. And then the owner has to be contacted and then they have to go out. And so we are required to go through that process of notifying the owner. And then...
 Many of the commercial businesses have private garbage haulers for the disposal of their trash. These are the big metal dumpsters, they'll pass the disposal on heists, etc. Illegal dumping occurs around those dumpsters all the time. We encourage the owners of the businesses to pay the extra dollar or $2 a month that these companies charge to provide locks and bars so that the containers are locked.
 Now, if the dumping occurs on the outside of the container, each one of these private haulers have signed a franchise agreement with the city of El Paso, which you guys have all approved. And they're very aware of the requirements that any tagging from graffiti has to be cleaned up right away. Any excess trash around the container has to be picked up.
 So either they have to pick it up free of charge or they have to pick it up and charge the owner of the business. But whatever methodology they use is between them and the commercial business owner. And it's the only time it comes to the city of El Paso is when one of the either the private hauler or the commercial business owner refuses to cooperate. And so then it elevates to the city of El Paso where we get involved.
 Some businesses have even gone to the extent of installing their own personal cameras to be able to catch the license plates. And again, the constables are the faster methodology, although PD will also respond. But the environmental court of law is with the county district attorney. So they have the environmental illegal dumping court.
 For 2021, just to give you an idea of what we look at, our cleanup crews pick up over 4,000 dead animals. We've done 670 property cleanups, 19 illegal dumping cases, 10 homeless camps.
 nearly 3,000 bulk pickups. This is extra trash that people leave on the curb. This is an on-demand service, so this is not part of the dumping issue. We've collected over 12,000 illegal signs, and the EP311 app that's been promoted brought in 334 calls directly related to illegal dumping.
 ESD Outreach and Partnership Program coordinates cleanup events and we assist in the cleanup of illegal dumping sites and this through the neighborhood associations. We encourage each one of the districts to work with their neighborhood associations and contact us to coordinate these community cleanups.
 The efforts for these, the gift to the river, gift to the mountain, the Great American Cleanup and Pride Day are the ones that were suspended during the COVID situation. And so perhaps it is time to bring these events back into the mix. The gift to the river would have addressed the situation over there in District 8 right there on the riverbanks.
 And as you well know, calling 311, 212-6000, Environmental Services, or the 311 app. For FY20, we had over 1,000 cases come in, the various, either one of those methodologies,
 that were received and addressed. And for this fiscal year so far, we've had almost 800 cases, which is, I mean, for FY21 last year, we had 800 cases. So that was a 30% decrease from year over year. And if you are caught illegal dumping, you have to pay a minimum of $342 in court fines and fees. Okay.
 We recognize there are hot spots. There will always be hot spots, but that's when you would call environmental services directly. But from my perspective, the program that we have in place is very successful. The sign crew is a proactive crew. They roam around the city looking for the signage that people stick on the corners and also on the telephone poles.
 The dead animal service is on call. Those are 100% based on people who call in. So we do have the roaming crews and then the on-demand crews. But the illegal dumping falls under the municipal code, and it's regulated by the courts. So we don't have as much leeway with that.
 I also have representatives from the police department that are available. I know Dion Mack is on the call. And so if you have any specific questions about the response. That's just to give you an idea of the program that we have in place right now. I do have one follow-up question. In regards towards Scenic Drive and the dumping that's there, what is the strategy for that?
 That would have been included under the gift to the mountain program that was suspended during COVID. So we could bring that one back but that would address the scenic drive and then the gift to the river would have addressed the river issues. Those are very successful programs but like I said we suspended them during COVID. Okay whatever coordination you could with our office or other offices that'd be great. Up next we have Representative Hernandez, 5-way Representative Molinar and then Representative
 of District 7. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you. Thank you to the representatives who placed this item on the agenda. I hear your frustration. I just have a question not some not really in line with the illegal dumping. I'm just curious about the Great American Cleanups Ellen. If we plan to bring those back. I know our office has already made requests. They are very successful. They really do help with illegal dumping. I even think that this should be
 a quarterly type of program to help deter illegal dumping. When we when we host these events when when it was on a pause we worked with private haulers so that they can bring dumpsters and I can tell you they're like overly successful events. I know other representatives do that in their district.
 to the point where like after the dumpsters are gone, they still go and leave trash and furniture debris out there. So I really do think it's a great program. I'd love to see it scaled. And then at least to add some more tools to the toolbox here, I think it could really help. What are the plans for the program?
 Yes, we are planning to bring back all four of those programs. I think that's probably what we're missing. The Great American Cleanup, as well as Pride Day, and then the other two programs, Gift to the River and Gift to the Mountain, which we're targeting, that goes up four times a year that we would give the residents the opportunity to assist in cleaning up El Paso.
 So yes we we intend to bring them all back this year. DIRECTOR RIVERA- And I'm just hoping that it could be more frequent because and then it's limited to like the number of neighborhood associations. So like for example there's some areas in my district that don't have neighborhood associations which is why our office would sponsor those events.
 And if we can target you know hot spots within each district I think it goes a long way a super long way even if it's not all in the same day. If we can space it out you know maybe every other weekend and focus on every other district. I just think it's a great program. It's always on demand. I'm already getting a request for the spring. And then there's some areas like in the Upper Valley and the Lower Valley where there's a lot of tree debris and grass.
 where they're you know cutting trees and limbs and so they're always looking for places to to take their their trash and because what's happening is they leave they leave all of these limbs and tree limbs um in in uh you know some of these ponding and basin areas and so it just adds to the clutter and um and overall aesthetic aesthetically unpleasing but i just want to express my support for the program and hope that we can scale that pretty significantly okay represent molinar
 Thank you, sir. Okay, so someone earlier mentioned about a possible solution. I'm only going to give one solution for the area south of Angora Loop and Stonebridge, but that is city property. There currently is fencing in that area.
 So fencing constitutes, well, anyways, trespassing would probably be a better charge. But anyways, the fencing does constitute notice under case law. So fencing is there. Any peace officer?
 observing that it would have two options number one enforce the trespassing and also the illegal dumping part of it so that would be two different charges but now I understand there's not fencing in every part of Dyer McCombs railroad and other things like that but that's just one possible solution the other thing I understand from Ellen Smythe is that
 I believe it's streets and maintenance does it clean up on all alleys and I can tell you in district four there's an alley at the 4600 block of Belinda Ann and it coincides with Maureen circle and Never really seen that picked up at all. And so I'd like to have that alley to add it to the list I know we
 Casner Heights schedule a cleanup for Saturday, April the 30th and that particular alley in that area They're already scheduled as a target area. So that's what I have to add. Thank you Anyone else you represent Rivera? Okay district one I'd also like to thank my colleagues for putting this on the side money agenda as well Eastside suffers just as much of the illegal dumping as any other part of town
 glad to hear that miss Smyth is bringing back the Great American Cleanup and Pride Day which is a big help I'm to our offices also getting calls on that generally when we do that program miss Smyth is there there's a collection bin limit and there's some some areas that are left out will we have enough to go around
 I'm working with Richard Bristol at the Streets Department because he also has some roll-off containers available. Environmental services, we're limited on our containers because the CCS, our biggest day is on Saturdays. And so it's difficult for us to...
 to allocate those. But that being said, what we've done in the past was to designate the corner of an alley, a park, a vacant lot, a median, somewhere where the neighbors could stack up their trash. And that way we can take the grab all with the claw
 and then just come and pick it up right off the ground into the container on Monday or Sunday, not necessarily on that same Saturday. So that's the alternative that we've used in the past. And I'd also like to thank you for sending members of your crew out there to –
 to really tell some of these neighborhood associations what they can and what they can't throw out in the bin. Appreciate that. And this next question is on your dead animals on the roadway, are you taking the calls directly or are they still going through PD? Okay.
 We take either way if PD gets the call they have to forward it to us so it's kind of the middle man. But so if my preference if you if you're going to call anyways the 2126000 so it doesn't get have to go through the loop. Okay but when that happens people also call PD because they feel it's not fast enough so I know
 Some of the officers carry shovels and they the only alternative is to put them on the off to the side of the road So they don't get further Shall we say hit by? passing vehicles and that that also takes the officer from responding to much more important call and
 Right. What? Yes. So, but you're right. It is helpful if the officer is able to move it out of the middle of the traffic.
 but you're right it does take their time away that the best thing for that and we work very closely with pd and the pd code officers so i mean we're like right here's chief sadu's on the phone i see him nodding with chief would you yeah i see him on the i see him on
 Yes, Assistant Chief Sarud for the record, thank you. Ms. Smyth and Representative Rivera. So basically when the officers do get involved on this in regards with the dead animals, usually the calls are coming in as a hazardous situation because it's on a roadway and all. So they'll do their best to move the animal and process the dead animals.
 the call through Allen Smythe's individuals. It's, those do get upgraded based on the fact that they may cause a traffic accident and such. Okay, and while I have you on there also, are you still handling the ones, the illegal dumping ones, when you have the evidence for, you know how people catch them on camera from license plate to vehicle to actually what they're actually dumping? Are you all still investigating that?
 Oh, well, yes, they're going to be a criminal investigation in regards to that and our apology in regards to what happened with the district aid and the five points on that we should have been able to follow up on it. But we've got cases that have been worked up and there has been warrants worked up in regards to the illegal dumping and such through municipal court. So by all means, yes, we're on it.
 We just need to, like they said, go back and revisit the situation to make it more of a customer friendly service for those that are calling it in with information to identify the offenders. So with that said, you prefer the representatives to let them know that you will investigate such cases?
 Where you do cases that come in with workable leads that meet the requirements by all means we should be able to follow up and hold responsible those individuals that are committing the offense. Okay thank you sir appreciate you. Thank you. You're welcome Representative Rivera. Thank you. Zaga or Rep. Hernandez? I don't think I have a motion to approve. A second. Okay there's a motion and a second.
 Yes, sir. There is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve the item. This is item 19 on that motion. Call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Representative Lizárraga? Aye. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. We got item 20. Item 20 is discussion in action on a resolution
 to appoint a member to the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board of Trustees in the area of expertise of consumer or citizen advocacy as recommended by the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board Selection Committee. I'd like to make a motion to approve Stephanie Block-Uribarri. Second. And Mayor Pro Tem, Ms. Block-Uribarri is in the queue waiting to speak. Okay. Can we listen to public comment? Yes, sir.
 Ms. Palacuti, by star six, please. You'll have three minutes, and good morning. Hi, good morning, everyone. Thank you so much for the nomination, representative. I've had the pleasure of speaking with almost everybody on the city council and shared why I'm so committed to this position. It is, as I have mentioned, the third time I've applied, and I appreciate
 I hope that I have the opportunity to serve the city in this position. As I've said to each one of you individually, water is our most important resource as a desert community and the city's future prosperity is really contingent upon our management of that resource.
 and El Paso has such a bright and exciting future. And I just want to be one of the stewards to ensure that we have all of the resources necessary from management of storm water to protection of our conservation of water and making sure that the Public Service Board is responsible, excuse me, is responsive to public needs. So thank you so much for your consideration and I hope I have the opportunity to serve the city in this capacity.
 uh representative molinar thank you very much um whoever's listening on this call the water company is a huge huge part of el paso we live in a desert area and everyone needs water to drink to bait to wash dishes wash clothes things like that we have so many customers that are complaining about different things whether there are increases or not but whoever is selected to this board has their hands full already
 And so that person needs to understand the dynamics of everything that's happening, full circle for the El Paso Water customers.
 And I want to make sure that that person does the right thing all the time, that they understand the scope of their work, the challenges that they have, and find solutions that are equitable to everybody involved, regardless of what part of the city you are from, where you live, where you work, where you reside, things like that. So I just want to make sure that they understand that the challenges ahead will be huge. Thank you. And Mayor Pro Tem Representative Rivera said he withdrew his second on this.
 I'll second it. I think I thought Representative Hernandez had seconded it. I heard Representative Rivera first. So Representative Hernandez, do you second the motion? Yes. Thank you. So I just want to state why I made this motion here today. I've had the opportunity to notice Ms. Block-Urabare for a very long time. She is somebody to me that is an independent and powerful voice.
 regardless of what area or what town she lives in. She is somebody who was born and raised in this community, came back to further this community and to raise a family and has pure intentions in wanting to do this in my belief. I also feel too that she's had the
 professional background in advocacy and community building both at her time in New York City as well as here in El Paso, Texas. And I've seen her personal commitment to a variety of community projects for her neighborhood as well as for this community in general. I think that given the challenges that are occurring right now with the, you know, the
 water company, it's important to have a voice that can be an advocate for consumers, that can be an advocate for this city council, and is an independent voice from any sort of company or corporate entities within the city of El Paso. And I think all of the applicants are above and beyond reproach, but I do think that we
 my experience with Stephanie and understanding and seeing firsthand I think it should be a tremendous asset for the public service board and for the city council and this community as well representative Vanello thank you mayor Pro Tem I you know I'm going to support you on this I do agree with you I think Stephanie is a great liaison for this community and
 specific appointment. She is a landlord. She has renters. So when we talk about utility rates, she is directly in contact and knows how those people are impacted. I also, I'm not going to explain this well, so maybe you can help me represent it so it's fine. You
 and it was for, I can't remember exactly what the position was for, but she got up here and said, you know what, I'm really honored to be nominated. I really want this position, but I think the person that you've selected is much better for this appointment. And she was then encouraged to wait until there was an opening that would better suit her, right? And so this is the consumer advocate. We told her to reapply as a counsel. We encouraged that. And I really think that this is,
 the best fit for her and i'm glad she did reapply you know she didn't get discouraged we as a council really encouraged her to keep pushing through and she was even just i mean i think to get up here and say you know i don't think i'm the right selection for for this position um you picked the right person and then to reapply you know i i have a lot of respect for her in that regard so i will be supporting you today mayor pro tem i represent lazarga
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I wanted to make a second main motion. I move to appoint Mary Beth Stevens, the candidate recommended by the selection committee. Second. Is there anybody else who want to speak at this time? I guess we've got to. Mayor Pro Tem? Yes, Representative Nunes. Sorry, I have, is Mayor Leaser present? I've been texting. No. I'm not getting a response. No, Mayor Leaser's gone for the day. He's gone for the day? Yes.
 Okay thank you. So I'm aware. I just wanted to thank all of the applicants who who applied and went through the process. It's certainly a difficult decision for me but I do agree exactly what Representative Manello said. I do believe Mrs. Block will do a fantastic job advocating for our repairs El Paso water repairs. What I'm most impressed with is her
 experience working with residential customers and the apartment association and in her line of work and I think that's something that we need to recognize is Stephanie could do a great job because she's already doing that work
 representing over thousands of El Paso apartment rent payers. And so other than that her experience is great. She's been trying very hard to to participate in this board and I have a lot of respect for that but ultimately I'm going to support your motion Representative Schwarzfein because I think she's going to do a wonderful job. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Representative Salcedo.
 thank you mayor pretent just wanted to thank all the applicants that applied um i did review all the um the resumes and i just want to say thank you for for applying thank you um i think we can
 That's a wonderful song. Yeah, it's a very nice riff. I think we can call questions. So we currently have the first motion, which is to approve for Ms. Blocker-DiBari. That's correct, Mayor Pro Tem. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Hernandez, to appoint Ms. Stephanie Block-DiBari to the Public Service Board Selection Committee. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. And Representative Lizardo? Yes.
 No. In the voting session, and the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representative Salcido-Lizarraga voting nay, the motion does pass. Mayor Pro Tem, may we go to call to the public now? Yes. Thank you.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have eight members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. She will be followed by Primo Stone, Rick Bonnard, and Ron Como. Good day.
 God bless America and you all may help save America the way it is right now. I understand that tomorrow Mrs. Abbott, the governor's wife, is coming to El Paso. I do not know who is going to greet her, the mayor or the mayor's team. Mr. Schwarzbein? Mr. Schwarzbein?
 This is a gift from Mrs. Abbott from all of Pasoan. And see to it that the mayor gives it to her. God bless you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. The next speaker is Primo Stone. Primo Stone, if you're in the queue, star 6 to unmute your telephone. Primo Stone, I don't see him in the queue. We'll move on to Mr. Rick Bonhart.
 Mr. Barnard's topic is recycling contract. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon Mayor Pro Tem and council I'm here today kind of after a heads up from the an article in the El Paso Inc And I would like to advocate that City Council not approve a change in the owners of the recycling program but rather use this as an opportunity to either cancel or renegotiate that for a new contract and
 Why? Well, for the last 15 years, the program has really not demonstrated a public benefit. First, the program loses money, lots of money, just not by sharing the losses from the recycling program itself, but the cost occurred to us by having to operate a completely separate collection service. Two, the program doesn't save landfill space.
 This has been an unintended consequence of the program. Residuals from outside of El Paso are placed in our landfill. The new name basically says it all. Border Albuquerque Recycling Company. All over the U.S., recycling residues are shipped overseas. The Philippines and Indonesia are basically dumping grounds for U.S. recyclables. Herein lies the new additional risk.
 A bigger out-of-town company could seize this opportunity. Why ship overseas when you have El Paso landfill to use? So I completely encourage you to completely abandon the program or renegotiate two points. First, the new owners equally share in the collection costs.
 and bear full responsibility for financial losses like any other business entity. And two, no residuals from outside El Paso County are permitted in our landfill. The contract allows you the right to cancel when the owners take over, new owners would take over, if doing so is not unreasonable. Well, the potential harm to our landfill...
 from additional outside residuals is a very legitimate concern. How many times have you said to yourself, if I knew then what I know now, I wouldn't have done it? Well, this is your opportunity. This is your 2020 hindsight opportunity to correct this problem. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. He will be followed by Jason Jones, Sabrina Soto, Michael Castro. Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. I would like to kind of point this to these conversations and towards the city attorney. I'd like to remind you guys about approximately a year ago, there were statements made to the city council that in 2020, we saved more lives than ever before through the shelter.
 I want to remind you that in 2019 we saved 11,000 more lives than we did in 2020. I'd like to remind you that the comment, return to owner, 38% has been used over and over and over again. Mayor Leaser's chief of staff has the animal services records. These records show.
 But 38% has never been achieved by animal services and return to owner. It's a real basic formula. It's live intake and return to owner. Real simple. One of the other conversations that keep coming up is the community did all this. The community fostered off the street. The community participated. They did everything. It's interesting that Austin City Council, who questioned Ellen Jefferson,
 proving these statements and she finally got to a point where he said well we really can't track that information so we're being provided all this information that is false mayor Leaser came to the shelter with us the other day a gentleman stated to mr. Leaser and I the reason why the adoptions are down is because the adoption rate across the United States is down 60% according to best friends according to American Humane Society
 The drop in adoptions is 21%. It also states in the article that Texas is one of the higher as far as holding adoption numbers. So we've got all this misinformation, and it needs to be brought up. We need to figure out what we're doing wrong. I think we all know what we're doing wrong. We need to repair the situation at the shelter. I understand after our conversation at the last meeting, there was conversation about
 the lack of employees the employees leaving is coveted i'm going to say this again talk to the employees it's not coving the employees at the shelter are unhappy they're leaving people are retiring early taking a cut in their benefits to get out of work where does the problem lie the problem lies at the top and we need to correct it mayor lisa asked me to work with
 people there i cannot work with people that have condoned animal cruelty for over a year we've abandoned thank you mr on the street thank you sir you've reached the three minute limit the next speaker will be jason jones followed by sabrina soto michael castro and stephen strummer mr jones if you're in the queue star six please
 Oh good afternoon Mr. Jones you have three minutes. Mr. Jones this topic is gringo theory bar noise nuisance compliance officer findings and request for indoor sound permit. Hello everybody, Ms. Lucido, we've spoken in the past. I know you guys are gonna redo the noise ordinance
 I really am bringing this forward. You really need to take this serious. Please take it serious. And I just had to bring something, some things I've recorded from my house, from my master suite, my own bathroom, from inside my house. This is what I've recorded. And I want you to listen. If you want to get the fuck out of the club, if you want to get your shots, get the fuck out of the club. Yeah.
 I'm sorry, Mr. Jones, that's inappropriate language for this forum. Mr. Jones, will you please stop your recording? Thank you. I recorded this from inside my house. Okay, I live about 500 foot from the center of their patio. So they don't have to have a permit. They get to play until 2 a.m. six nights a week, and this is what I've dealt with.
 for the last year you guys listen to about 20 seconds i'll listen to four hours a night for six nights a week and that's not the worst part the worst part is the base the base that emanates from their building okay they have a still building it has no no sound deadening principles applied to it because the city has no ordinance on
 Indoor buildings for amplified music. Officer Perez has come to my house. He has listened to the music. He's the compliance officer for the city. He can't write a ticket. He can't do anything. But he's heard the bass. He's heard it at 25, 30 decibels in my house. I can do nothing about it.
 other than write up a noise nuisance complaint, which takes six months to process. The last time I turned in noise nuisance complaints, the city attorney only accepted two, one for each week. You can't turn in more than one a week, is what I was told. In other words, they don't want to have a backlog. That's the problem. I'm tired of this. Thank you, Mr. Jones. Thank you.
 the next speaker is sabrina soto followed by michael castro and stephen strummer miss soto if you're in the queue star six please sabrina soto i don't see her in the queue we'll move on to michael castro star six please to unmute your telephone mr costro star six please good afternoon you'll have three minutes mr costro's topic is cannabis decriminalization
 Hi, good afternoon City Council. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi guys. So I just want to call again to just touch on, we really haven't heard much about the police funding or the request.
 to purchase equipment to go ahead and test or to go ahead and be able to test further for THC and products that people are arrested for or things that are complicated um recently here in El Paso there were in the news there was a you know talk about 87 pounds of cannabis that was um seized right 87 pounds of cannabis worth a million dollars apparently here at the street value in El Paso Texas and um
 You know, there's a couple things wrong with that. First of all, 87 pounds is not a million dollars worth of cannabis. It's about $400,000 worth of cannabis. And those are going based off numbers right here in New Mexico. So basically a pound of cannabis is going to go for about $2,500 to $3,000. Okay.
 Even at $5,000 a pound, you're still not breaking a million dollars basically worth the street value. And basically what I'm trying to get at you guys is that, again, cannabis is here. The news reports about it all the time. Bust after bust after bust. You guys find cannabis. You're going to keep finding cannabis. You're going to find cartridges. You're going to find wax. You're going to find edibles. You're going to find anything you can think of when it comes to cannabis.
 With New Mexico becoming 100% recreational, the problem is only going to get worse. So for, you know, El Paso, city council, when things come up as far as tax, you know, tax requests, that it's going to, you know, basically it's going to cost taxpayer money to test for THC percentages in cannabis to see if someone's guilty or not.
 right i mean it's just weird it doesn't make sense again guys the cannabis industry is right next to us people are about to start making really good money right now it's 15 an hour at the company i used to work for ultra health which is a dispensary right across new mexico they're hiring right now at 15 an hour and you do not have to be from new mexico and actually be from el paso texas and you know what's crazy is that a lot of the people that work there are from el paso texas
 Right. So there's opportunity coming to our city. Right. There's going to be money to be made for people in our city.
 So let's not take this opportunity away from us because this is something that's been with us in our culture. It's not going away anywhere anytime soon. This is something that's going to stick with us. It's going to be here. It's medicine, you guys. So, you know, if you look at it as a drug or anything like that, again, like we've said before, just do your research. Understand that this is medicine and why people are choosing to use this, why people are choosing to purchase this.
 and why people are choosing to consume this, right? It's not to break the law. It's because people need this. It is medicine, right? So again, you guys, the opportunity that New Mexico is bringing for our city, I think it's something that we should totally- Thank you, Mr. Castro. See as an opportunity. Thank you, sir. Thank you guys. Y'all have a good day. Bye-bye. The final speaker is Steven Strummer. Mr. Strummer's topic is, I wear the mask. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon. Thank you, Laura. I wrote a poem.
 I wear the mask. The mask, the mask, I wear the mask. I wear the mask, don't have to ask. Don't ask me twice, I wear the mask. I'm up to the task, I wear the mask. When I pray, I wear the mask. The barbers, I wear the mask. I wear the mask, I wear the mask. Don't have to ask, I wear the mask. I like my mask. I'm happy with my mask.
 You don't wear the mask? Please stay away. Don't tell me to take it down, because I'll wear a frown. I like my mask. Those that don't, well, stay away. I like six foot. It's fine. I like the distancing. I'll deal with it. The mask and the vax. I like the vax. It's hard. I took down my shirt, but I got vaxxed. The mask. The mask.
 I don't care what you have to say, I wear the mask. This is how I be. Two years at the barber shop, I am required to wear the mask. This is the new norm. Suck it up, I wear the mask. The mask, the mask. Don't have to ask. I'm healthy, thank God. In my business, in my apartment,
 We just lost somebody from the COVID. Person number two. So I wear the mask. Go outside. I work in the garden. I wear the mask. This is how I live. And I'm not ashamed of it in the least. I wear it. My relatives, they all wear it. Some of them even go, they get their food shipped to the house in the condos in Arlington, Virginia. I wear the mask. This is how I live.
 So what? I wear the mask. Thanks so much for hearing me. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. That concludes call to the public. Thanks. Ms. Prine, can we recess to 1 o'clock? There's a motion to recess. Is there a second? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess at regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess until 1 o'clock. It is 1221 p.m. Council, may we have a motion to reconvene? So moved. So moved.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1.03 p.m., and Representative Lizada has left the meeting, and as previously noted, so has Mayor Lisa. The next item is number 21, and this is a budget update. You might be on mute, Mr. Cortez. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Can you share my screen? Yes, this is a budget update. Item number 21. Okay.
 So today's budget update we're going to focus on capital project funding status and highlight some of the key results over the programs and then at the end we're going to talk a little bit about it. We head into our five year financial forecast presentation upcoming in the near future. A little bit more discussion about what we're looking at as far as future debt issuance over the next five years as well for the remaining capital projects that we have that have already been approved. So here are the four different areas that we're going to cover. I'm going to cover a portion of the presentation. Yvette Hernandez will cover a couple of slides.
 in the absence of San Rodriguez and then I'll pick it up towards the end to cover the budget and debt planning factors and then the 2023 to 2029 debt issuance estimates. So a little bit of a follow-on to what I presented yesterday with the Downtown Development Corporation and the ballpark and the success that we've had on managing that debt in particular, the refinancings that I mentioned, the way that we structured our savings to minimize the impact from COVID,
 Really no different on the property tax supported debt side as well. Since 2016, we've had $68 million of savings from refinancing old debt. And so that's taking old debt, getting a better interest rate, therefore lowering the cost of the overall payback on these capital projects. So it's not just the refinancing, but it's also just the timing and the structuring. As you all are well aware, we did do two separate issuances last year. Again, really to take advantage of the very, very low interest rates, but then also at the same time.
 to keep those capital projects going and moving so that we can meet those timelines that we've talked to the community about. Also on the 2012 street projects as you'll see in an upcoming slide, we did finish or have issued the amount total needed for those projects, which is about $15 million less than the original authorized allocation. So originally it was $218 million and we have issued $203 million and we'll be able to complete those projects. Again, $15 million under budget.
 and then the very last bullet point there at the bottom of this slide very very key in that you know a lot of things that we talked about a lot of things you all have approved as part of the annual budgets are creating these set-aside funds so that we're able to to minimize the use of debt to go out and get back on regular replacement cycles for our public safety capital investments for our residential and collector street resurfacing projects and some of other other improvements over at the parks and our sports complexes
 and some of the other key areas as well. So having those set aside funds, therefore, has helped to reduce overall impact on the need to issue debt. The graph here, it's a really telling graph and it really does highlight what we've been able to do over the last several years. You'll see over the last five years, we've kept our overall debt service tax rate right around 28 cents during that timeframe. And that's coming with the issuance, as you're gonna see in an upcoming slide, with the issuance of the debt that we have done,
 to address those key priorities in the projects that have been approved. So continuing the 2012 Court of Life, our various capital improvement plans that you all have approved, and then also with the recent 2019 public safety bond projects as well. So even with that, we've done a really good job of refinancing, again, taking advantage of low interest rates in order to minimize as much as possible the impact on our debt service property tax rate.
 This slide is a summary. We talked a little bit about this two weeks ago during the budget update presentation. This provides you an update on where we stand with our various capital projects. You'll see on the top heading there the 2012 Court of Life or 2012 streets and then the other remaining capital improvement plans that we have. You'll see on the far left-hand column there when these issuances took place going back to October of 2013. And so of what's remaining I see I highlighted the ones in yellow that are completed
 The ones that are remaining we have 128.5 million remaining from the 2012 quarter of life and all of that is associated with the MPC project. We have a small amount in our 2018 capital which is the town lease slope repair and then the 2019 capital plan 25.9 million is a couple of our top 25 projects that we have remaining our street projects and then the remaining the large majority of this remaining 407 million is in our 2019 public safety bond projects.
 Again that was approved in November of 2019. We've done a couple of issuances over the last year and a half. But you'll see we still have over the next several years $245.8 million of those projects out of the original 413 to be issued over the next several years. So with that I'm going to turn it over to Yvette. Sam is out but I'm going to turn it over to Yvette. She has a couple of slides that she wants to cover talking about a little bit of the success that we've had on our various CIPs and the impact that it's had on the community.
 Good afternoon. Invited on this with Capital Improvement Department. If we look back seven years from fiscal year 2015 the Capital Improvement Department has completed 425 projects of which 167 were for the quality of life.
 We're looking to have another really big year in 2022, anticipating 22 projects to be completed with 70 that will be started in construction. So what that results to is approximately 38,000 in supported jobs. Next slide. So we have projects completed within all eight districts in the city of El Paso. Next slide.
 And it covers a range of our diverse portfolio. So we have projects completed in parks and recs, facilities, airport improvements, transportation, and also projects that have been completed through our public safety bond. Next slide. Also from 2013, we've completed approximately 425 streets that were to be resurfaced, and those have all been located throughout the city of El Paso.
 So what does that mean in terms of results? Looking back from 2014, we've completed 428 projects. That's resulting in $1.3 billion that have been invested into our city. Next slide. So basically we can look at a million dollars worth of construction projects
 That roughly equates to about $500,000 in labor costs. So if you look at our total expenditures, which are $1.3 billion, we have approximately invested into our community $645 million through labor costs in support of all the construction that is going on throughout our city. Next slide. So in terms of all our facilities improvements to our parks, our libraries, our rec centers, our pools that have been –
 dispersed throughout our city, we have approximately 780,000 visitors per year. And this is due to all the investments, quality of life that we're improving within our city. Next slide. So I'll be covering the next few slides. So what we want to talk about here is looking ahead to not only this upcoming budget year, but as we look to the next several years, again, with a little over $407 million of remaining debt to be issued over the next several years.
 and again a large majority of that coming from our public safety bond projects several factors several assumptions that are going to be built into this you'll see more of this information as we present our five-year financial forecast here in the near future but really looking at our taxable property valuations is the largest component that we look at when we're coming up with these forecasting so we're looking at the residential commercial growth obviously also looking at our homesteads for the over 65 and disabled
 So we continue on an annual basis to see on average between 800 to 1,000 more of those homesteads each year. And so we have more and more of those homesteads that are qualified for the over 65 with a disabled exemption which the City Council increased provided more tax savings for those two groups with this current year increasing that exemption up to $42,500. On top of that we have our disabled military veterans and spouses who received tax relief on the value of their homes as well.
 And so that's another area where we continue to monitor because we do see those eligible and those that are disabled military veterans being eligible for more and more tax relief as they become eligible for those exemptions provided by the state. We also look at our tax increment finance zones again that incremental value and how or what role that plays in our overall valuation growth. And then obviously our tax rate looking at the debt issuance amount determining and working very closely with the capital improvement department
 on the need for cash for these projects in order to keep them on track and on schedule. And then finally, we're looking at future interest rates as well. And obviously, with what we have going on in the current economy, continue to see some fluctuation with those as well. So all of these different assumptions are factored into what I'm about to show. Again, this was a preliminary estimate that we came up with about six months ago. Sam Rodriguez and his team and the budget staff will continue to work on updating this.
 And you'll see more and more information on this as we continue to move throughout the next few months with this upcoming budget process. So of the $407 million remaining to be issued in approved projects, again, a large majority of that coming in the 2019 public safety. This is our current preliminary estimate of what we have and how we're going to roll out that remaining debt to be issued. You'll see the largest amount coming in fiscal year 2023, which is our next fiscal year, which starts on September 1. So we have approximately $163 million planned for that fiscal year.
 And again, these numbers may change. Again, I'm working closely with the budget staff and with the capital improvement to really make sure that we are only issuing debt as we need it based on the cash flow. So this number may change, it may come down slightly, but this is what we have built into the model for right now. So $163 million of that, $130 million of that would be for the 2019 public safety bond projects, the $25.9 million and the $6.9 million, the yellow and the gray portion of the bars there on fiscal year 2023.
 We complete those CIP plans, the 2018 and 2019. And then you'll see as we move into 2024, it's all public safety bond projects, $48 million. 2025 and 2026, you'll see orange portions there of the bars. That is for the 2012 quarter of life for the MPC project. Again, that's a project that's been in litigation for several years now. We do still have bond proceeds on hand that we issued back in 2016.
 And so again, this is sort of an unknown just depending upon how long that litigation is going to take before we can begin to move forward with that project. And then you'll see the remaining outer years there continuing to complete out the 2019 public safety bond projects that we have in the queue. So overall, this is the debt model, the plan for that remaining $407 million. Again, these numbers may change slightly as we continue to fine tune our forecast, but this is what's built into the model for now.
 And this is the corresponding impact on the projected debt service tax rate based upon those issuances. And so you'll see as we move from 2022 to 2023, right now we're estimating approximately a one-penny increase in the debt service tax rate. Again, and that's a result of that projected $163 million issuance next year. So there is about a one-penny projected increase in the debt rate. You'll see in the next several years as well we have projected increases.
 until we complete out the completion of all of those issuances, the $407 million, until we cap out in 2029 at the maximum debt service rate of $0.354, which is still well below the approved debt policy cap of just $0.40. So we're almost 5% below the debt service maximum that's allowed per the debt management policy. And so, again, as I mentioned, we'll continue to fine-tune these estimates and then present this information as we move throughout the next several months
 as we get more and more information on how those capital projects that are already in process, how they're moving along, then again, determining the amount of cash that we're going to need as we move into the next fiscal year. So with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions that you all may have. The only thing I would say is that one of the things that's been brought up is looking at Sun Metro and making sure that we create a mechanism to capital projects
 projects that are been deferred or not funded adequately as well as making sure that service that we provide is also acceptable to the community. And so I think those are some things that we should be looking at for the budget coming up for the next year as well, including also looking at the current costs associated with Sun Metro at this point to get a better sense of what's going on in that department.
 Councilor, is there anybody else? Representative Hernandez up there, wherever you are. Yes, Mayor Pro Tem. May I have the floor? The floor is yours, ma'am. Thank you, Robert. It's already February and here's the time where we're already starting discussions about the upcoming budget cycle. So if you're not aware, these are the types of conversations we need to start having now so that we're not making last-minute decisions after the budget is approved.
 With that said you know I saw some reports and I've heard time and time again about vacancies. Can you at some point in the in the next presentation can you provide what kind of savings that is bringing overall to this current fiscal year and that way we can start thinking about what we're going to do with those savings because with so many vacancies I can assure you there's going to be some savings I'd like to get a a.
 feel for what that looks like because my concern is that it'd be reapplied or reallocated for something that's outside of the scope of the budget resolution so I want to get a better understanding of what the savings are. Sure so our plan and we'll bring back at the next presentation we'll give you a more a little bit better of an outline as far as what we're looking as far as budget update presentations and what we're going to present over the next few months
 I would recommend that we wait until probably mid-April, maybe the end of April before we bring that information back that you're asking for. That'll give us at least a half a year of information of data in the current year so that we have a pretty good idea on where we think we're going to finish this fiscal year. But absolutely that's information that we'll share with the Council. Okay thank you, I appreciate these updates. Anything else Council relating to that? I would just also add too that public safety is another concern that we hear about consistently.
 We want to get a better sense and understanding about adding additional police academies and what those costs would be based upon, three or whatever it is, but more than just telling us this is the amount of police academies we're going to do, but to give a sense of what the costs would be for any additional ones as well.
 Also, I know that there's been mentioned too about body cameras and adequately funding them. For the next budget update, if we could have a standalone item or something relating specifically for our strategy and implementation for body cameras for our police department. This is something that keeps our officers safe. This is something that keeps our community safe.
 and I think that there's a lot of questions relating towards what we're doing. I know that you could probably give me a pretty quick response right now, but I'm hoping to see something a little bit more substantive in upcoming meetings and discussions. Mayor Pro Tem, if there's not any other questions, I'd like to respond to some of your questions.
 So with respect to, you mentioned capital improvements, you mentioned Sun Metro, you also mentioned the academies and the police department as well as
 Did I say body cameras already? CIP, body cameras, academies, and Sun Metro. So with regard to Sun Metro, right now, as we've mentioned in previous presentations, we have issues regarding vacancies and being able to fill several of the routes. And so one route that we put back in was Route 11 with respect to that connection point.
 We still move forward on the other routes that were recommended by Ellen during the last presentation. The reduction in those routes has nothing to do with the budget. It has to do with the number of vacancies. So I want to be clear about that. The Mayor Pro Tem made mention of
 some capital improvements in Sun Metro. Sun Metro has several facilities that are running its course in terms of the timeframe that it's been active and the fact that some of them need replacement and or a lot of renovation. So when we talk about CIP and the budget, unless you're gonna do certificates of obligation, which is highly controversial,
 you need to look at putting that in front of the voters so that's something that whether it's the council with its community that's concerned about some of the sun metro facilities that they manage and if you are concerned about that that's something that needs to make its way to the november 22 bond election i i don't think that that there's going to be an appetite to have a discussion about having certificates obligation to fund any of these issues
 the the Sun Metro and next year's budget and in future years budgets I should say a lot of their capital replacement needs they're going to require either general fund capital projects to to fund them and or looking at the general fund operations in terms of increasing services in that department relative to future years as I said this year is not related to a budget cycle body cameras has been something that's been discussed several times I know that that all
 of you for the most part support it and I know that representative Eta has been championing that just like several others of you champion different initiatives that you're very interested in I know that representative Manolo champions of mental health improvements and issues in the police department and that was that went
 long way in funding that program that we have in place and that the council supported so as we've said before we've got a game plan and we've talked about the game plan with regard to body camera funding and how that would be funded lastly about the academies
 Want you all to think long and hard about that because I understand why mayor Pro Tem brings that up He was at a community meeting that was brought up by the police chief that about more support and funding for the police department It was also brought up in a Eastside Regional command center Groundbreaking and and the reason why I bring that up because I said to y'all publicly a few meetings ago that what he said was accurate and that because of a lot of the the
 neglect that happened over a course of decades not just over the course of a few years and we have two members of the police department they're not retired they serve on our council that can attest to this far better than I. But there was a lot of things that weren't funded in that department that needed to be funded so we're playing a lot of catch up we put in a 10 year plan that this council supports a 10 year plan to bring in 300 more officers.
 We also said during the 2019 capital improvement package that the public approved that that 2019 package would include some operational and maintenance costs. So we do have to increase the number of police officers in order to house the Eastside Regional Command Center as an example. So that number needs to go above the 300. But we have to do it over that time period that we have had council approve that we recommend it.
 Because if you go any faster, I mean you have you have number one a lot of new rules and laws and you don't want to Have an entire new police force that are all young police officers You need to blend that in with experience and so the the game plan that we have the council's approved unless you want to adjust that plan to
 to do it faster, which with today's challenges with regard to COVID and the different things that are happening across the country with regard to hiring people, that's gonna be an extreme challenge. So I just want y'all to have that context when you bring up these issues. We will bring all that information back. We'll give you the context you asked for, but I wanted to address that so you can think about that between now and the next meeting. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Tommy. And I'm just curious,
 auditing process relating to some metro that would go to FOAC there is a request I'm sorry I said if there no the this what request for some metro an audit for okay yeah it would be the okay because I mean some of the concerns that we hear ongoing with with it and what we're spending for for mass transit and the the other costs associated with with
 with some of these deferred maintenance costs relating towards different facilities. Just think it would be important to look at doing that so we can go in eyes wide open about exactly what are the costs and what are the challenges that we have to make sure that we provide exceptional service to this community as it relates towards MassTRAD. Absolutely. I would just simply say that if you're going to audit, you have to have something to audit. So you need to send that to the chairman of that, Representative Rivera. And it can't just be look at the numbers. You have to audit something.
 it has to be something that's auditable okay and mayor if i could just add we just had our meeting this week and i'm sorry to interject um there was an audit already conducted in sudden metro um recently and so i would um happy to share those findings with you and to work with the chairman and so i think representative had made a request to speak was that no i thought the scratching was the request
 Yeah, and then I guess in terms of I know that we have a timeline or a strategy for the body cameras but I do think having perhaps a standalone item in an upcoming meeting I think would be good just so that there's a clarity involved and perhaps on a work session
 any council members like Representative Rivera or others could ask questions to their heart's content. Absolutely. And just one more comment on that. With regard to these requests, they all have a cost associated with it. So I know that what also rings true for this council is that you don't want,
 to increase the tax rate given the fact that we were in a pandemic still and the fact that we wanted to reduce it for the Seniors like we did last year in the year before we looked at that as well So just things to consider because it'll get very real when you attach a number to it. I
 Yeah, and I think again, having this conversation earlier than later can look at what other alternative funding sources there might be relating to other facilities and infrastructure that we have in our community as well. And we've already had those conversations before. Representative Molinar, sir.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Pro Temso. The issue of, you mentioned right now, police officers, and I know, Mr. Gonzales, you mentioned that there is a process in place to get more police officers, hiring more police officers, and yes, the academy is a long time, and the recruitment process is a long time too. And so passing the background is challenging. Making it through the academy is challenging. More so now, I think Representative Rivera had it a lot easier recently
 but anyways either way all levity aside it is a situation that our city needs to face and right now we have a lot of police officers that are retirement ready and that is should they opt to take that retirement we are going to be in a huge predicament
 And so we need to really make sure, besides the 300 officers that we're banking on, that we need to make sure that we're focused on whatever the process is. Because I know there are some shifts that do not have officers to even take a call. I mean, there's no officers.
 And so our citizens are going to be demanding better service, competent officers, and things like that. And I'm willing to work with you, anyone from Ms. Mack, from the deputy city manager, Ms. Mack, anybody from the police department, if we have to do a cross-functional team or whatever, to find solutions because we're going to face a crisis if it's not –
 Early on we need to do something sir, right? Yes, sir. So mr. Miller what we have done and we were very proactive on that We actually started the program in 2015 and
 If you do the math, and I'm just doing it on top of my head, we've hired over 400, bless you, we've had over 400 officers in the last five years go through the academies because we have a net of over 150, and that's over the last five or six years. And so we have an attrition rate of approximately 50. So if you do the math, we're doing it in five years, that's 250. We have a net of 157, I believe.
 So we've hired over 400 officers over the last five or six years. And so we'll be doing the same every year here in the next three to five years. We're doing the same thing. We also did the drop program. We funded that. We also have an item that the council sent to the charter with regard to the pension fund and being able to take the cap off of it so that we can be more aggressive there.
 And as I mentioned already, we're going to continue that 300 in 10 year program. And we need to add to it, and we are adding to it as it relates to making sure that, like the Eastside Regional Command Center as an example, has officers in it. And we did include that in the presentation we gave to the public.
 So I'm saying these things because y'all have been proactive. I do understand it's a concern. I do understand you want to have an uptick of it. But the reason why right now that you have those kind of reports that you hear about, it's because we mentioned that we had over 300 some odd people out because of COVID that worked for the city, that number is reduced down to 250.
 some of that portion is in the police department so that is the reason for that I also mentioned the fire department they almost had to cut a firehouse but instead they froze the vacation and I think we answered that the other day where they couldn't take any additional ones and they don't lose it but they froze it so that we could maintain service so we are staying ahead of it I hear what the council is saying I just want to make sure y'all know that we have made strong recommendations the council has
 VOTED ON THOSE AND WE HAVE THOSE PROGRAMS IN PLACE. I UNDERSTAND THE FACT THAT YOU WANT TO BOLSTER THOSE, TOTALLY HEAR IT AND TOTALLY UNDERSTAND IT. WE'LL COME BACK AND ADDRESS THOSE ISSUES IN MORE DEPTH. AND THAT'S THE REASON WHY WE DO THESE PRESENTATIONS. WE'VE DONE THEM EVER SINCE THE BUDGET ENDED. WE START IT UP AGAIN AND WE DO IT YEAR ROUND. SO THAT'S WHY WE DO THIS. YES, SIR. AND I HEAR YOU LOUD AND CLEAR.
 and I can tell you so last year was 2021 calendar year 2021 was my first year on City Council and I did appreciate and I did mention this publicly to you and to mr. Robert Cortina's you know appreciate everyone coming out doing the budget cycle throughout the year thank you yes sir you're very welcome represent Rivera thank you you know it's admirable that you're asking to to
 I'm going to bolster the production, or rather the manpower for the police department, but you should know as well, Representative Moulinard, that every extensive recruit that applies for this is extensively checked for background. And the reason for that is that there's a lot of responsibilities that come with the job. And so that has to be done, and in the process, they lose a lot of potential candidates.
 I think that the 10-year program that's in place right now is currently effective. All the departments throughout the country are suffering the same issue that we are here in El Paso, without a doubt. And so, we're losing, as a matter of fact, we're losing some officers because, as I mentioned before, they come with special gift that other communities want, and that's being bilingual.
 And so those communities that don't have bilingual officers do get paid for being bilingual, but I mean the offers there, the young officers take it. We're losing a lot of young officers in the process, like Mr. Gonzalez said, through attrition, and of course through better paying opportunities. You really have to be wanting to serve your community here in El Paso to be a police officer here in El Paso, because you know you're gonna make this your permanent home.
 and a lot of it is invested in the recruits, only to have them snatched away by another community because they're bilingual. Now I'm not saying we ought to pay them for being bilingual because that'd be absurd because we're predominantly Hispanic. And so the thing is that,
 Think you did have a cross-functional team, right? You did mr. Gonzalez on that you did have one Yes, sir, we did one of the things that came out of that I'm glad you mentioned about poaching we we did have something that was recommended and the
 the police union had to weigh in and they've concurred with it for us to have lateral shifts so that we can move people from other cities laterally and then just have them go through an abbreviated academy so we get more officers on the ground. So that's one more thing that I believe we can add to the list of things we've been able to do. But yes, sir, the CFT was in place. It does have a lot of good information that we are going to be bringing back to the council.
 So yes, that's in place already and we're happy to take feedback and information from council on that at any point that you all want to be more involved with that. Thank you as well for that because we have to be extremely critical of that lateral transfer depending on who we get. We don't want somebody else's problem child to come to El Paso and become ours. So I admire what staff is doing right now.
 would ask that you continue to do so and just keep us informed i like the the plan that you said about having a a plan in place for our body cameras you know how i feel about that yes sir there's nothing to fear on body cameras from the officers it'll it'll show the fact that they're doing their job right and nothing else and we we can stop some of these frivolous claims that are being placed on the city and so uh i i admire uh i thank a representative of uh
 Molineux not and and may have pro tem for bringing this issue up and so I just asked that you continue to do what you're doing Hopefully we can get more recruits to stay here in El Paso For them to leave and that for drop was a big plus for for the department. Thank you. Thank you So when can we have a update on the strategy for the body cameras for the next council meeting? Yes Thank you. Is that something the whole entire council wants? I
 Sure, you can have it. Yeah, I mean, I definitely, I brought this up at the last city council meeting as well, so thank you, Representative Schwartzwein, for highlighting that again. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor Pro Temp. Thank you so much for the presentation. You want the body cameras to come back, but in regards to how they're going to be implemented or how? It says there's a strategy for purchasing of the body cameras, so having a formal presentation on a work session would seem to make sense.
 For us to get the most amount of information purchase or at least it's true Yeah, we've shared that already individually with every council member happy to do it again and do it in public Okay, and I know you mentioned the CFT group you put together when is that coming back before us like the Recommendations so they're scheduled to come back within the next two months Hopefully sooner than that but I can tell you since you asked it would have it would happen within the next 60 days for sure. I
 Perfect. Yeah, that's been some of the questions that I've been getting in regards to what are some strategy with the manpower and the police so that we may ensure that the communities are safe. So I'm looking forward to that presentation. Thank you. Is there anyone else? All right. Representative Hernandez, you good? All right. We go to the next item.
 Yes, sir. The next item is number 22 and this is an update on the public engagement strategy Related to a bond program in alignment with and the implementation of the city strategic plan and this report is being done because When we gave you the last report council wanted to continue the dialogue publicly So we're doing this in order to keep you obviously engaged and involved in the process of the planning that's going into Sharing this with the community
 Good afternoon, Council. This is Daniela Quesada for the Capital Improvement Department, here to give you a follow-up presentation on the CIP potential bond and the community engagement portion that will be included with that. Now, the potential community progress bond aims to look at potential improvements that may be needed or valued in the community in the areas of streets,
 unfunded priorities, quality of life, housing, green infrastructure, solar energy, or ecotourism. As was previously presented, the timeline we're looking at is starting with community engagement in early winter that will take us to project selection in the spring, followed by public outreach in the summer, which will lead us to a bond introduction in August 2nd to then bring it to the voters at the November 8th election.
 Looking more closely at the timeline at how the community outreach and engagement portion affects it, we're looking at February to April having robust engagement efforts where we will gather public input. Moving on from May to July, this input with various data points will help inform project selection. That way our information office can start public outreach in the summer for August.
 Now in this presentation, I'm going to walk you through the different tools that we will use to gather the public feedback that we need and how this input, most importantly, will help inform the project selection process.
 Now, capital plan development has multiple steps before we get to the project selection. And so we'll be focusing today on what the engagement and outreach will look like, which will then have to be followed by data validation, community sentiment, which will all inform the project selection for the capital plan, which is then taken to voter consideration in the form of a bond.
 Now, engagement is very different from outreach in the sense that it provides meaningful opportunities for the public to provide input that will help shape what the values and priorities are that inform our project selection process. This goes beyond just outreach. It's beyond just information. It's really having a two-way conversation with the community.
 And we're going to gather this feedback using tools to help us quantify the data, also display it in real time so we have complete transparency and we gain the confidence of the community. We'll also use tools to help us geolocate this information so spatially we could see where we're getting our feedback from. We could then work with our outreach efforts to target areas that perhaps we're not getting as many responses from as well.
 And lastly, we're going to categorize all the information and input that we're getting back.
 Now CID is conducting ongoing public engagement efforts for various other projects. The Alameda Corridor Plan, which kicked off last summer, had hybrid community meetings and focus group meetings in the fall of 2021 and earlier this year. The Uptown and Downtown Study kicked off in January with our first hybrid stakeholder meeting and will follow up with community and focus group hybrid meetings in the spring and the summer.
 These two will also be followed by the Mary Frances Kiesling and Memorial Park Master Plans, which will also kick off in the late spring with community engagement opportunities coming in the spring and summer. And the last Master Plan we'll kick off this year will happen in summer 2022 for the Pavo Varela campus, which will have community engagement efforts happen in the fall of 2022. And all using very similar tools and strategies and...
 So looking more closely at what these tools look like, we're going to be relying primarily on using a website as our main platform. This means that all our online polling, surveying, and dissemination of information will be housed in a very user-friendly website. We want to make it as easy for the public to not only navigate to answer the questions that they may have, but to, again, view the real-time results of the survey.
 the data that we're gathering. It's also important to note that we're going to use the same platform for our hybrid meetings, so that when we conduct in-person meetings, we'll be using the exact same online platform that anyone using the polling tool virtually or at their own time just with the website is going to be consistent.
 This is just a quick look at what that interface looks like. We're trying to keep it again user friendly easy to navigate informing the public not only of the survey and the questions but how it really relates to the city meeting their needs. And again making it as easy as possible for the community to check the live results of all the data that we're gathering from the community.
 Now this engagement process, to walk you through a scenario of how we're aligning this with the strategic planning goals and vision blocks, we're going to take all the major areas that were identified
 And we're going to try to break up into different potential areas of intervention that we could then further ask the public to break down what could be potential future projects. So, for example, if we take road improvements that falls under our safe and beautiful neighbourhoods.
 We can then break it into different options. What would the public like to see? Would road improvements mean the repaving of streets? Do they prioritize complete street reconstruction or multimodal infrastructure? Sure.
 And so based on the answers that we get, we can then move forward into programming potential projects, such as for complete street reconstruction, we can invest in more walkable streets, the widening of sidewalks and introducing better parkways or introducing multiple transit options in forms of protected bike lanes or dedicated mass transit lanes, etc.,
 The engagement process strategy is going to be broken into a series of district supported hybrid community meetings, as well as virtual participation that will be available to the community at all times in our website.
 February and March is when we will be hosting all of the hybrid meetings and collecting the data, again, having data visualization available to the public at all times on our website. And in April is when we will conclude our meetings and start the data compilation. Looking more closely at what that engagement schedule looks like, the five regional community hybrid meetings have already been scheduled.
 to happen starting next week. February 23rd, we're going to host one in the Mission Valley, followed by March 2nd on the east side, March 3rd in the northeast, March 8th in central, March 22nd on the west side.
 And again, CID staff, along with the communications office, is going to be on site to facilitate these meetings and lead the discussion. But we're also, in addition to that, going to work with the individual representative offices to set up district meetings to really target their constituents as they know how to best do.
 This is going to be in conjunction with the robust outreach efforts that our communications office is going to be conducting through local and social media outlets. And again, outreach and engagement are two partners that are equally important in the success of gathering public feedback. Outreach differs from engagement in that outreach is here to build awareness, to
 to make sure that we are targeting as much of the community as possible, that we're building momentum and that we're informing the community of not just the proposed improvements, but also the opportunities that will be available to them for engagement.
 And so some of the tools in our outreach process include email blasts, website updates, City Council newsletter, again, social media, but also the traditional media news and press releases. We're also going to go with more traditional outreach efforts that include posters and handouts, working with our community of excellence partners and neighborhood associations. Now the results of all our public engagement process,
 is then compiled as quantifiable data that again will be visualized in graphs and maps and will be aggregated to additional data points that the city will be collecting to really ensure that we are targeting our priority areas based on need as well as public input and really addressing equity and service gaps.
 And of course, all of this data will go through validation process that will then help identify our goal and project prioritization that we'll take to council for consideration.
 And then a really quick note on understanding equity and why it's important that we consider service gaps and equity as some of the metrics when aggregating all the data. This is an image that very clearly illustrates that providing equal supports or services across the community may not lead to everyone having the same access.
 And so when we're talking about equitably distributing services and support, we're really trying to focus on giving the kind of support that is needed to make services accessible. And of course, the overall goal is to identify what the systemic barrier really is, so we can target it and remove it so that accessibility is provided truly equally across the community. And so once we move to the project selection,
 I can't stress enough how important it is to have a data-driven process that's going to be completely objective, 100% transparent, where the community will see their input, not only in real-time results on the website.
 But as the projects are being selected and presented they will see that this is a consistent and repeatable process that will incentivize community members to participate in future community engagement.
 So to conclude, this is the timeline that's going to take us from engagement process to project selection. So February and March, we are going to host all of our public engagement hybrid meetings, as well as ongoing online polling and serving. This is going to help us compile all the data that we need so that in April, we will have data-driven goal prioritization complete.
 This will help us start our preliminary programming for potential projects so that in May we develop project scopes along with cost estimates that we can then present in June to Council as full recommendations. And with that, if anyone has any questions, I'll be more than happy to address them. One question that I have is,
 What are the, what are going to be the language facilities that are going to be present? Will there be translators present at these items and will they be bilingual, the online?
 Yes, Representative Schwartzbeink. So for all the hybrid meetings that are going to be in person and virtual, we are going to have live translating services on our website platform. We are going to have information, not absolutely everything, but the survey is going to be available in Spanish. The information that has to do with the process and frequently asked questions are also going to be available in Spanish as well.
 What about what about in person? Yes, we're going to have in person translator. So for the hybrid meetings, we will have somebody in person translating as well as a virtual presence for the virtual portion of the hybrid meeting that will be addressing questions in both languages.
 Okay, Representative Van Alten. Thank you. That was actually my question. I know that Representative Schwarzwein quite often brings up that question and sometimes we often rolls our roll our eyes because he does that But it I was very upset to hear that with our redistricting commission. We have not had a single Spanish translator It actually became a problem. I
 in the San Juan area recently and I'm looking at the redistricting webpage There's no Spanish translation or opportunity to do so and so I'm glad that representative Schwartzbein stayed true to character and brought that up because that's something that Unfortunately, we still need to to ask Still something we need to stay on top of so I'm glad to hear that you're on top of that for us Daniela Thank you
 uh represent rivera i apologize did was this before on this item yeah you had some yeah okay represent rivera same thing with the uh sign language so so i'm just curious for the public so what ways are they going to be able to actually engage this process i know that there was there's made mention with this that there'd be some sort of online sort of portal but um
 Yes, Representative. So we are, for the sake of consistency, what we are doing is putting up on our website, that's going to be our main platform, a survey that targets all the different vision blocks identified in the strategic planning session. And we're also going to include an open-ended question so that if we miss something that didn't exactly address what the participant feels is their highest priority, they have an opportunity to do so.
 in the online platform. Now, in the hybrid meetings where we will be hosting an in-person session in conjunction with a virtual session, staff will be there to walk the participants through all the different information sections of the website, as well as take questions and answers and really open up the discussion for participants that
 that take part in our hybrid and further district community meetings. So the only difference between the online or in-person is that staff would help to guide the online survey in person? Correct and facilitate navigation through the website, answer any more questions in depth. But again this is a function that is also available for any participants that go
 line exclusively as they can submit in the open-ended question whatever questions they may have. Our email is also going to be provided so we can field any questions anyone might have as they're taking the survey. So we will be covering both the virtual space and the in-person space with the same staff. What mechanism is in place that would that where residents couldn't
 apply multiple times for the survey. This is probably more of an IT question than anything.
 So the surveys, we're not holding any kind of identification associated with whoever takes the survey. However, we do have questions that, again, will help us, for example, geolocate where we're getting our data from. And so a constituent could potentially take the survey multiple times. And that's where the data validation comes in. And it's very important that we see that we're getting, you know,
 same responses from the exact same location then we know that most likely it's coming from you know the same person but i don't think there's anything that we're doing to preclude anyone from not taking the survey more than once okay because i know that with the 2012 quality of life bond there were some some articles about about the fact that with the uh citizen comment cards where citizens could fill out their own projects that there was some um questionable
 responses that looked like it would have been duplicates and that sort of thing or is being organized. And so that's just something to keep in mind of. I hope that some of the data as well that could be garnered from this would help to also locate kind of
 little bit more information again anonymously because we're not asking for first and last names but understanding information about who responded based upon zip codes and other sort of other sort of items like that so I think that this will be an interesting exercise as well and I hope to that with some of this engagement process be able to work closely with our offices in the PIO office to make sure that the dates and locations work best for our community too
 Representative Hernandez, I don't know if you have anything there. I just want to be respectful to your online presence in our lives.
 Anything else? Council? Mayor Pro Tem, I would like to say that just for the rest of the council and the community who's listening, when we had the 2019 package at the public, that went off really, really well. We had a lot of meetings. We got feedback. We shared everything with the public. There was no equivocation on whether we would need O&M dollars and capital improvement dollars. So I think that's a...
 that that was definitely a good model with regard to sharing information with the public and getting feedback and making them aware of what was going on.
 The 2012, I can't tell you how that happened or what happened there. You make a very good point. We'll make sure we guard against that. Daniela heard your concerns. We'll make sure we work towards that. And also, she also mentioned in her presentation that they'd be reaching out to the council. So Daniela will be doing that along with the communications department that's going to be assisting with that process as well. Looking forward to it. Thank you, Daniela. Anyone else from council?
 thank you um we can go to the next item miss bryan yes sir the next items are numbers 23 to 25 this is the first reading of ordinances there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative molinar to approve the first reading of ordinances items 23 to 25 on that motion call for the vote representative fernandez yes thank you in the voting session
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 26. And this is discussion in action that the city council approves a deductive change order to Arrow Building Corporation for contract number 2018-520R, New Regional Aquatic Parks, Lost Kingdom, and Chapoteo Water Parks. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes.
 Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 27, and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0377, Trowbridge Drive Improvements to JAR Concrete, Inc., DBA JAR Construction, Inc. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Añelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 28. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation of 2021-1380 General Cleaning Services, Parks and Recreation Facilities to Ace Government Services, LLC. Motion to approve. Thank you.
 Second. There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve. Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, Representative Molinar. I'm pleased to speak. Yes, sir. Whoever is on the call for this, just want to be sure, does this also include any restroom facilities maintenance? Good afternoon, I'm with purchasing and strategic sourcing. So this item only includes the cleaning of those facilities, not the maintenance. I'm sorry, I wasn't able to hear you. Is that a yes or no?
 No, it doesn't include any maintenance under this contract. It is only cleaning for the facilities. Okay. The reason I ask is I did receive an issue reference of Memorial Park where the restrooms were not maintained in a very sanitary condition.
 The only restrooms at Memorial Park are in the new EPISD softball facility. Is that what they were? I'm not really sure. She just approached me and mentioned that because I am a city representative that she wanted to relay that information to me. I haven't been to Memorial Park in a while. State representative. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Representative Hernandez. There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 Voting session is open. Representative Anelo. Thank you. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 32. This is discussion and action requesting City Council support for the staff recommended project that has been selected to submit for the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity Raise Program. Motion to approve. Second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Van Nyl seconded by Representative Molinar to approve. No, ma'am. On that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 33. This is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to enter into an interlocal agreement between the University of Texas at El Paso and City of El Paso, whereby the university will provide all program personnel, perform all grant administration, and via the El Paso MAKES Consortium establish and operate an aerospace and defense supply chain innovation network. Motion to approve. Second. Great project.
 is there a public comment on this yes we do have public comment on this item we have miss susie bird who's in the queue good afternoon miss bird if you'll press star six you can unmute your telephone good afternoon ma'am
 Hi, how are you? This is Cece Byrd. I recently joined UCHEP's Aerospace Center working on economic development and partnerships. And I'm here mostly just if you guys want to ask any questions. But I also just want to thank the mayor and council and city manager for your strong commitment to economic development.
 The city has been a great partner with the Aerospace Center, the WMKEC Center for 3D Innovation, and the El Paso Chamber in our shared mission to create jobs and business opportunity in aerospace defense and advanced manufacturing. And this investment today helps build on your work.
 and we're really excited to have you as a partner in this and work with you in strengthening and making our economy more competitive. Thank you so much. Thank you. We also have Ashan Chowdhury, if you're in the queue. Ashan Chowdhury. Dr. Chowdhury was not able to join. He asked me just to be available if you had a question. Thank you, Ms. Bird. Mayor Pro Tem, that ends public comment on this item.
 representative rivera you have anything you'd like to add great opportunity great opportunity sir yes it's a great opportunity for a pastor to have with both virgin galactic and blue origin thanking east and west absolutely any representern andes got anything she's gone all right trying to get her back on her no i'm here oh my god
 i'm here i don't have any questions other than looking forward to this partnership exactly really great really great opportunity to see what happens when our community works together what a wonderful day call question there is a motion made by representative rivera seconded by mayor pro tem shortsbank to approve on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item number 34. Thank you so much. Item number 34 is discussion in action on the presentation related to the sale of land by Fort Bliss. Good afternoon, Elizabeth Triggs, Economic Development. If IT could please bring up the presentation. Thank you. Next slide, please.
 So we're here today to brief City Council on the proposed sale of 1,520 acres of land owned by Fort Bliss and located south of the William Beaumont Army Medical Center, north of Montana and east of airport land. And it runs adjacent to that airport land. In early January, marketing of this property began by a broker. There was no specified price listed in the marketing materials. And
 And it's our understanding that proposals are currently being taken for all or a portion of the land. We expect that the period to take proposals will end at the end of this month. And in mid-March, Fort Bliss will begin reviewing the proposals and by the end of the month, accept the best proposal put forward.
 What's important about this piece of property is that in the current way the land sale is structured is there's no requirement that the property be annexed into the city as a condition of sale. So in other words, if the property was sold, it could potentially remain outside of city limits, even though it is located in the central part of the city. Next slide, please. Next slide, please, IT. Okay.
 So this is the property's location. You can see the airport is just to the west of the property and then Montana to the south.
 So the city limits really do bound it on the south and west while Fort Bliss is located to the north and east. Again, if the property isn't annexed prior to sale, we do risk a large hole in the center of the city. And for properties that aren't annexed into the city, they're not subject to our zoning requirements and they're also not subject to paying property taxes.
 They would be required to comply with our platting provisions because they would be located in our ETJ. Next slide, please. So we're here today to ask Council for a specific action. We'd like to begin working with our federal delegation as well as with Fort Bliss
 to discuss a path toward annexation either prior to the land sale or as a covenant running with the land once it's sold. Really, annexation prior to sale is critical to the orderly growth of the City, as well as important to recover costs associated with City services and infrastructure necessary to serve
 the future development of this 1,500 acres. This slide provides an overview of some of the benefits of annexation, and that's really why we're asking today to be able to begin those discussions and have the support of council to do that. Next slide, please. And so, just as I said before, as we begin these discussions, part of what we'll be considering as we work with the federal delegation as well as the appropriate federal agencies,
 is how we get to that place of annexation, whether it's appropriate to do that before sale, which is strongly what we recommend, or whether we can do that as a covenant running with the land. Other items that we'll be thinking about when we talk about annexation is looking at the agreement, the service plan, what the ordinance looks like, and then any associated items like the appropriate designation on our future land use map.
 appropriate zoning, as well as any changes to the major thoroughfare plan that affect extensions of the existing arterials or new extensions that would impact and run through the property. All these things, it's really important for such a large piece of land, so centrally located, it's really important that we consider those carefully to ensure that we have just a, I guess, very orderly, continuous growth that also provides...
 you know, clear expectations from the community, the existing community surrounding it, about what the development might look like and how it might impact their respective neighborhoods. Next slide, please. So in terms of timeline, I mentioned this earlier. We expect that the preliminary proposals will be due to Fort Bliss by the end of the month.
 The next step that we've understood from the sale process is that Fort Bliss will review those proposals and request a best and final offer. We expect them to do that mid to late March. So it's moving fairly quickly. And we're just looking to continue those discussions with Fort Bliss and ensure we have a good solid annexation plan in place. And next slide, please. And so this is the motion that we're asking council for today. It helps us
 begin those discussions and ensure that they understand that City Council is very much behind moving forward with an annexation plan for the property. And I'm happy to take any questions. Yes, Ms. Triggs, could you go back to the item that shows the 1,500 acres, is it? Yes, sir, that's correct. It's a pretty big chunk of land. So to the left of that is Loop 375, the sort of diagonal line right there? Yes.
 Let me pull it up. Also on the other side is the airport. That's the major concern in terms of it having, you know, competing against the airport development, which would impact the airport adversely. And we've already reached out to the congresswoman's office to make her aware of this issue.
 Yes, so to the east is where you have the airport and then the loop runs around the north side of this. You have the William Beaumont, the new facility directly north of this property. I mean it, I guess if we would update our MTP probably identify that we'd need to have a connection to the loop from this parcel because they're not either have Montana as well.
 i guess my you know i think it probably makes sense to look at annexation at this point my my question relates towards these discussions that we've been having for years now about how we control the growth of our city and balance out these costs of development with providing services um and 1500 acres east of loop 375 doesn't
 I don't know where that really aligns with our comprehensive plan or other planning documents that we've had. And that brings me a little bit of concern because it seems that this is pretty substantial investment of substantial development possibility that's on the outskirts of our city again.
 Yeah, so I think it's an important conversation to have. So even this property has a designation in our future land use map. It's also on our MTP.
 So it's just important that we have those conversations ahead of the land sale and ensure that the annexation, that's really the critical piece to this is ensuring there is a path for annexation so that the property is incorporated into the city limits and then does become subject to what is planned for this area.
 Under the existing flume designation, it is G8, so it's a mixed-use type of property. But again, if it's not annexed, it's not subject to our zoning regulations. So that's one of the reasons why it's really critical that we have a plan and that we work in collaboration and coordination with Fort Bliss to ensure that this property becomes a part of the city.
 Is there been a land study on this land at this point yet? I don't know off at the top of my head. I'm happy to to get that answer for you. I can answer that. Kevin Smith with Planning Inspections. Representative there has not been a land study for this area. Again it has not been considered for development and so now that it's Fort Bliss is putting this land
 I guess releasing the land this is where the opportunity would be obviously a land study would be appropriate where we would see the different uses that would be here as well as be able to determine the different city facilities that may be placed here in the future working with different departments here and who would be responsible for overseeing the land study because from what I understand that that is one of the principal guiding documents more than anything else at this term at this part of development
 So the land study would be proposed by a developer and is processed by the planning inspections department and would be approved by the city planning commission. Is there any way that the city can can do that process so that we have more input than administrative yes or no? So one of the ways that we can assist with that is as part of the annexation process.
 We'd also work with the developer and different city departments and identify those services needed. So we determine what fire facilities, what police, what library, what park facilities may be required and that'd be part of the annexation agreement that would come to City Council for approval. After that is approved then we'd look at obviously as Elizabeth mentioned rezoning the property.
 And then, um, once that is approved, then the land study would come in, which would show the phasing of the improvements as well as the subdivisions. Okay, because from what I understand, most of the property, for example, on the northwest of the city limits has already been land studied, correct? A lot of that has. There is a portion going up towards the state line there and towards New Mexico that has not been land studied. Um, but a fair portion has. This portion hasn't, um, as was mentioned, as, um,
 Again, this was federal land and still is federal land. Until they release it, then it would fall into our ETJ. And if it was worked out with Fort Bliss to be able to be annexed into the city limits of El Paso with those benefits that Elizabeth mentioned. Okay. I think it's important to try to stay ahead of this as much as possible and to the extent that the council or the
 City can go and inform this land study because it's sort of once it gets to that that stage of a land study being approved there's there's little we can do in terms of guiding development on this, and this is a pretty significant parcel of land. Um, is there any idea indication when they're when Fort Bliss is planning on releasing this for sale?
 It is currently being marketed by a broker. So it's important that we enter into the discussions with them now, which is also why the city manager mentioned we've already spoken with the federal delegation. It just helps to have council support behind moving forward with discussions with the appropriate federal agencies. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor Puchin. Ms. Triggs, can you tell me again, where's this location again?
 So this property is to the east of the airport. So the boundary right there on the western side of the property is airport land. Okay. You can see the golf course right there a little bit to the, I guess, northwest. And then to the south is Montana. The property to the north and east is Fort Bliss land or federal land. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, and the east is Justice Street where the SO has their headquarters? Let me pull up a map. I'm not positive, but it does directly abut airport land as well as the city limits to the south on Montana. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. That was the extent of my questions. Okay.
 question i don't know this question for ed or not but i know that that around this area or i mean around global reach we have some industrial uses for for businesses related to the airport um with the city of el paso owning it and i know like tj maxx for example is one of the one of them there um has have as fort bliss declared what uses would be acceptable for this area
 No, they haven't. Like I said, they're just looking for proposals at this point. And like I said, they have not associated a price with the property. And they've also indicated that they'll accept proposals for the entire property or for a portion of it.
 So it's very much open right now. And as I mentioned before, although it is mixed use designation on our future land use map, because it's not located in the city limits, it's not currently subject to our zoning requirements. So there's no associated zone with this. So it's very, very much wide open, which is again another reason why it's important that we develop an annexation path
 prior to the sale, if not as a covenant running with the land. Okay. So I think with that, IT, if you don't mind flipping to the last slide to show the motion that we're asking from council today. Sorry, Elizabeth. Triggs, I don't know if you heard Ms. Anullo say she had a motion to approve and it was seconded by Representative Salcido. I apologize, Elizabeth. My microphone was off. Okay.
 So there is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Salcido, to direct the City Manager to work with the federal delegation and federal agencies to develop a path to annexation of the land for sale at Fort Bliss. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 35. Item number 35.
 is discussion and action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services by and between the city of el paso and countrymen and co architecture for a project known as el paso police department headquarters design build owners representative motion to approve second i have a question represent mayor yes represent hello hi is mr fey
 Or Jerry, I don't know who's running this item. This is Jerry DeMero with Kevin. Hi, Jerry. Great. Jerry, can you walk? We're going to kind of walk through this process a little bit. So the projects on the public art plan come from the 2% art, correct? That is correct. Is that the wrong? Am I on the wrong item? Yeah. Oh, I'm on the wrong item. Ignore me, Jerry. Sorry. Okay. Wrong question? I'm totally on the wrong item. Okay.
 We appreciate your enthusiasm though. Okay. Mr. DeMuro, can you just place location where the site would be right now? If you can pull up the slide show, I can show you. Convert IT. I'll give you controls. And then go to the third slide, please. So this is where the proposed location is. It's at the former location, Cohen Stadium. Somewhere in this vicinity. So here's the water park.
 So this is frontage off of off of loop 370 off of 54? Yes. How does it how does it affect the sort of reimagining Cohen master plan that the council approved from 2017? So we are requiring that the design be consistent with the Cohen master plan.
 which was you know an entertainment district but also had offices and other i know and i remember that because there's a lot of thought and input there and i know that there was a number of city facilities that were looked to be to be placed closer to where camp cohen was and ideally utilizing the frontage road and that intersection of gateway north and i'm not sure what the cross street is there
 and Gateway North that that was going to be ideally a hotel site with a large sort of grass promenade area and opportunities for frontage retail. And so I'm just curious how this site was designated to it and how it aligns with the master plan.
 The exact footprint of the building has not yet been finalized. It's in that general vicinity. We'll also include a large parking structures to for parking for police staff and for use after hours by the public. But the design requirements will require that it is consistent with the master plan. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Okay. Do you want a presentation or if there's a way to send to us the the the Cohen master plan that'd be great as a reference. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Okay we can do that.
 And Mayor Pro Tem, this is Yvette Hernandez. The hotel that you were referencing within regards to the master plan, that would be in the little thumb drop that is labeled B.
 That area was proposed for the hotel. And then the area that is more, it looks like dirt that we have right now, which is the center of your DASH property line, that was your open space promenade. So this proposed location, like Jerry DeMuro stated, is not finalized, but it has been overlaid of the master plan for the reimagined Cohen. Okay. Okay.
 representative vanilla uh no i was going to ask about the design and construction but i see that on the slide is projected to finish by january 2025 which i know is delayed a year because of covid so i don't no longer have a question thank you that's good it's exciting to see these projects come to fruition with the public safety bond i think we're going to be able to to match the expectation of the community in terms of delivering these projects in a timely manner
 Thank you again, Mr. DeMuro. Thank you again. Also sent the council the Cohen website that has a lot of information about the work that went into that, so you can have it. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. All right. Is there a motion to approve in a second? I have a question. Yes, sir. Oh, Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mayor Pro Tem. So, Mr. DeMuro, thank you very much for this thing of design. Excuse me for your presentation. Sorry. But either way, thank you.
 If you can see between Kenworthy and Gateway North, there's a white squiggly line there. I believe that should be Whispering Springs Road. But Pasco Community College would encourage, I know this is the design phase for the building itself, but that road right now, it's a very small, narrow road. And access to it was two getting back to headquarters from officers coming in on Kenworthy, either side, north or south on Kenworthy. That should really be examined.
 to be widened so it has another access point to the police facility there. That's all I have. Thank you. Okay, thank you. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes.
 Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 36. This is discussion in action to approve a resolution to authorize the city manager or a designee to enter into contracts and amendments to contracts to carry out the 2022 public art plan. Motion approved. Representative Vanilla. Thank you. Mr. Fife, how are you?
 Good afternoon, Council, Representative Anello. We do have a presentation we can go through with the Council. I don't need to see the presentation. I don't know if anyone else does.
 It's a great plan. We have a great public art program, have for decades now. I think I have the floor. I think it's a great plan. I think there are some good projects in there. I am concerned about equity. I think Daniella for her slide in the presentation previously. So as I started to ask Jerry inappropriately, explain to me the 2% art fund. Where does that 2% come from? And what projects would it go to? 2%? Yeah. So the 2% is the art fund that we're working on. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund. We're working on the art fund.
 2% by ordinance comes from the issuance of any debt related to capital projects. Any debt. So, and unfortunately the 2% is not tied to that specific project. Traditionally, typically it is. What we do when we formulate the annual plan is we actually work with capital improvements to review the plans, to review the projects that are going to be advancing in that calendar year.
 We work with that staff to be able to determine which projects are best suited to receive public art. We also weigh the amount of projects that we have in queue already, the staff that we have. Okay. So I have...
 A lot of questions following that up. So when you and I met last week, I told you I had a real issue with the fact that there's one District 2 project, and it's not just me. There's no District 7 projects. There's two District 4, and they come from the police bond. But actually, now that I'm looking at it, a lot of the actual projects are only from 2012 through,
 and from the public safety bond, I'm not seeing a lot of projects that came from the 2019, the 2020, 2021 capital plans. So for me, I'm looking at Grandview Rec Center that was part of the 2012 bond, which is an area that has no public art, that this rec center is going to be a huge amenity for the community and it would be a great place for them. I'm looking at the Chelsea Pool renovation that's now going to be a park.
 none of these projects, I mean I'm just trying to understand if it's you or if it's capital or if, I'm sorry not you, if it's MCAD or if it's capital improvements that is hand selecting the projects that are getting art funding because again there's a real equity issue. I mean there's one district six, there's two district three, the rest of the projects are primarily in two districts and they're upwards of ten projects. I mean there's a definite equity issue here.
 So I would say ma'am that again we will take responsibility. We work with the Capital Improvements Department to be able to formulate this list. I would point out however that there are actually five District 2 projects a little shy of a million dollars worth of art commissions that are in process right now for District 2.
 I know and you and I joked about that I don't consider the airport considering that funding is coming from their fund. I'm specifically talking about the 2 percent fund and I'm sorry I should have clarified that. So we have the Alabama Street mural replacement. We have the lower Beaumont project which is still working its way through our Department of Defense permissions. And then we also have the Montana Mescalero improvements and the Montana Rapid Transit system or the Brio.
 Those are all 2%. Yeah. And there are about 30 projects on the CIP. But again, this isn't just District 2. This is also District 7, District 4, District 6, District 3. I mean, I'm concerned. This is a concern that I brought up before. It's a concern that I'm going to continue bringing up. There is a real equity issue when it comes to the public art plan. And I want to start.
 stop and say I'm very thankful for the Alabama Bureau. That's something that we talked about for many years. You were able to fit that in there. I don't at any point want you to think that I'm not appreciative of the work that you have done. I just see this problem continuing.
 So I would also mention them that District 7 we recently completed a number of projects through District 7 and I can certainly send out a list to the council of those projects. And then I would remind the council that District 3 elected to consolidate a number of projects to be able to fund
 the August 3rd memorial and that was done last year through this presentation. Okay well then I guess I'm just speaking for myself because we still have not had a single piece of art put in the district in the five years I've been on council.
 So I'm going to approve this today, but I really this is a conversation that I think needs to continue. I need to understand why important projects like the Nolan Richardson Rec Center, the Grandview Rec Center are not qualifying for our projects in an area that is completely underrepresented in this entire city program. Thank you. And thank you, ma'am. Understood.
 Are there any other questions from the council? Ben, I know that there's been some public meetings with the August 3rd memorial. If you could share that with our office, the presentation, that'd be great. I wasn't able to attend it, but I'd really like to understand a little bit more about the conversation there. And I think that project, even though there's a couple meetings there, I think it's really one that
 impacts the entire city so I hope that we could look at perhaps doing a couple more meetings that are a little bit more regional in nature to really gain input for that not just necessarily on one part of town
 What we committed to the council last year when we decided to initiate this project was that there would be multiple meetings throughout the community. We have a meeting tonight actually or I'm sorry tomorrow night to be able to serve District 7 and 6. Our staff has already reached out to your office to be able to program meetings for District 1 and 8.
 We additionally will have two more meetings and we're also reaching out to the District Attorney's Office to do a private meeting with families as well. We know this is a particularly important project to the Council, to this community. The process we've used to select the artist, the work that he is doing. I think everybody is working very very carefully, diligently and with a great sense of pride and responsibility to make sure that we honor the memory of those lost and the resilience of our community.
 Absolutely. That's good to hear and look forward to working with you again. And again, I just want to also say too, notice that there were some amendments relating towards the roundabout at the Paso Norte Port of Entry. And I'm glad that we're giving the appropriate amount of respect and seriousness to the art selected there for our ports of entry as a gateway to our sister city of Ciudad Juarez. With that, any other comments?
 Thank you again, and great work, Ms. Garcia and Mr. Fyfe. Thank you. There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. Yes, sir. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Hernandez not present. Thank you.
 The final item is number 37 and this is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services for geotechnical and materials testing services with CQC Testing and Engineering LLC, with Intertech Professional Services Industries Inc., with Terracon Consulting Inc., and Wood Environmental
 Wood Environment and Infrastructure Solutions Inc. The department has requested that LOI engineers be excluded from this item. Okay, move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda.
 Move to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, February 15, 2022 is adjourned at 2.40 p.m. Godspeed, Representative Rivera.