I know. Good afternoon, Council, just to let you know that we are live. Thanks. Thank you. Can we talk to Mr. Hernandez tomorrow morning? Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor. I need the microphone on when I say how are you all. Representative Hernandez, who's that with you? Hey, Mayor, this is Betty. Betty, how are you? I'm good.
 I think I've met you before. Say hi, Mayor. Hi, Mayor. How are you? Thanks for coming to say hi.
 I'm glad to see you ready to start. Thank you very much, Ms. Cronin. Thank you. Good afternoon. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, March 2nd, 2021. It is 3.30 p.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin the meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein.
 Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Present. Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Here. Rivera? Here. Lizárraga? Present.
 Thank you, counsel. Please make sure you keep your cameras on at all times, especially during presentations, so we can make sure we maintain a quorum throughout the meeting. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor, and he will recognize you at the appropriate time. Thank you. And I do have to go get my phone in a second, so I thank you for that reminder.
 And with that, I'd like to start the meeting. And I'll ask everyone to please call the doctors, nurses, and all our first responders that provide help and make sure that our community is safe in this time of need. As you know, we talk about COVID-19, and they go out there with our safety in mind, and that's really important to us. So I'd like to keep them all in our thoughts and prayers for a minute. Thank you.
 Thank you all. I'm going to go grab my phone. Excuse me. And for the record, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein has joined the meeting. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, everybody. Mayor, would you like to move on to the consent agenda? And Representative Schwarzwein, there you are. Please. Now wear your shirt. Good. How are you doing, sir? Good. Thank you.
 i'd like to have the following revisions for the city council meeting for march 2nd 2021. mayor if i may let me may i read the disclosure for consent agenda thank you all matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members
 Prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Yes, and I have the following revisions page 14 item 45 move to the forefront the regular agenda after item 50 for economic and international development and
 And page 14, item 46, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 50 for economic and international development. Also, page 15, item 50, move to the forefront of the regular agenda for streets and maintenance. And page 16, item 52, revise per representative Schwartzbein. And that revision is to add Mayor Potem Schwartzbein as a co-sponsor in the item.
 Thank you. And page 16, item 54, move to the forefront of the regular agenda prior to recess for mass transit board meeting. Can I get this up? Well, I asked...
 From this point forward when we get a when we do a meeting before we get the final agenda if we could please have these changes so the public has the ability to follow and it's in order. I don't mind moving them but I think it's really important that we put them in the order that we want them as it's important for everybody to be able to follow us. So moving forward if we can please do that I'd appreciate it. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Does anybody else have any other revisions. All right. We have a motion. So moved.
 there's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion mayor pro temp short line all right representative anello hi hernandez yes hi salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera yes lisara aye and the motion passes unanimously we now turn to page 15 to item number 50 that was moved to the forefront this is a presentation and discussion on the road towards an
 future adoption of Vision Zero strategies in El Paso. SPEAKER 2 Good afternoon City Council. My name is Hannah Williams. This is from maintenance. Our representative from FHWA is on the line. If you can go ahead and share the screen that we can get up as a vision. SPEAKER 3 Sorry Hannah you're having a lot of feedback. SPEAKER 2 What's wrong? SPEAKER 3 I'm getting a lot of feedback. SPEAKER 2 Is this better? SPEAKER 3 So am I. SPEAKER 2 Sounds like you did.
 It's the same? Okay, I'm going to take one more. Hannah, it sounds like an echo in there, like you're in an echo chamber. Is it in council chambers by any chance? No, sir, it's not in chambers. As Hannah starts making that easier to hear, I did want to add that we have been looking at in decreasing the type of fatalities we've been having around the city, the...
 The police department has stood up a traffic division. We've had videos for educational purposes that the council has seen. There's been more dollars that have been set aside for better lighting throughout the city on the major thoroughfares that have a lot of traffic on it. I think intersection concerns in terms of safety have been concerns for several of you on the council that I've talked to individually on our one-on-one meetings.
 And y'all mentioned this publicly. I think this is a joint effort with TxDOT. I think you're going to see that staff's doing a really good job of continuing the effort, continuing the fight on this issue. It's a big issue. We've had over 70 fatalities or around 70 fatalities.
 in the last three years, and they've been in the 60s in the three years preceding that. So it's a big problem. It's one in which we're very much aware of, the council's very much aware of, and we want to make sure that we're not only looking at putting up physical improvements, but also educational improvements and also coordinating with the state in order to leverage as many dollars as we can. Thank you, sir. And good afternoon, Ms. Williams. I think that might have given her enough time, Mayor.
 Yes, it did. Thank you, City Manager. Is this better? Can you hear me better now? Awesome. Okay. So this is a joint presentation with the City of El Paso and the Federal Highways Administration, Mr. Ed Burgos. And before I introduce him, I would like to discuss, briefly discuss, a few initiatives that the City of El Paso already has in the works. Next slide, please.
 So the quarterly fatality analysis cross-functional team, I know that I have briefed council on this a few times. However, just as a refresher, this is a coordinated review of traffic-related fatalities with the police department, traffic engineering, CID, and TxDOT. What we do on a quarterly basis is review all of the traffic-related fatalities and see where any type of safety improvements can be installed.
 to see if we can increase the safety in certain areas. Next slide, please. So some current initiatives that we have include the HSIP, the Highway Safety Improvement Plan. For fiscal year 2020, we received, we were awarded two projects for our city of El Paso submittals that totaled to approximately $847,000.
 Our current funding for NTMP is at $200,000 and that's for fiscal year 21. We have currently exhausted our funds purchasing speed cushions and speed feedback signs.
 And that is an ongoing important program within the streets and maintenance department. For our continuous safety lighting and MPO projects, city council recently approved portions of funds allocated for these efforts. And that's just an ongoing effort where we have our safety lighting installed on arterial roadways, as well as MPO projects for citywide bicycle infrastructure and pedestrian improvements to include safety lighting.
 For our citywide reconstruction and resurfacing projects, we upgrade our street lighting, sidewalks, and ADA accessibility. And we also do this through our capital plans coming out of CID. And lastly, we have our CDBG projects. One to note is for Trowbridge, where we are enhancing pedestrian safety with bulb outs and lane reduction. And for those CDBG projects,
 We enhance pedestrian and traffic safety by installing those improvements. And now I'm finished with the City of El Paso portion. I would like to hand over the presentation to Mr. Ed Burgos with the Federal Highways Administration. Thank you so much for participating and volunteering to give this presentation to City Council. And thank you, Mayor and Council, for moving this item to the front to accommodate our FHWA friend in Austin, Texas. Thank you.
 So good afternoon, everyone. Let me share my I'm doing good. How about you? Thank you, sir. Okay. Let me know if you can see my screen. Yeah, we can see your screen, sir. Okay. So good afternoon, everyone. My name is Ed Burgos. I'm with the Federal Highway Texas Division. I'm a safety engineer and Federal Highway is part of the United States DOT.
 Today I'm going to be talking about Vision Zero. So what is Vision Zero? Principles of Vision Zero? I'm going to share what are the Vision Zero practices and then I'm going to share other resources that I have. So what is Vision Zero?
 There are three overarching themes of Vision Zero. The first one, no loss of life is acceptable. So when you look at our transportation system, you see that we have that on our roadways, people biking, people driving their cars, people walking.
 And people may be taking the bus. And we need to get to the point where we can say that those deaths are no longer acceptable and we can have a better system because people deserve to come home at the end of the day and be with their families because the transportation system is safe enough for them to do that. Traffic fatalities and injuries are preventable. Sometimes we think, well, yeah, that's maybe the cause of doing business. Well, it should not be. We do know how to reduce traffic.
 traffic fatalities and serious injuries and I'm gonna talk about that later in the presentation and the third one is People will make mistakes will make mistakes. I bet most of us have run a red light that we didn't mean to and The penalty for doing those mistakes should not be death so all of us should have an equal right to get back to our families at the end of the day and
 So on the screen, you see that we have on the red line, we have the statewide traffic fatalities and on the blue line, we have city of El Paso traffic fatalities. As you can see, both of these are greater than CETO.
 On a related note, TxDOT, the Texas Department of Transportation, they have an end the street campaign. So the day that you see on the screen, November 7th of 2000, that was over 20 years ago. And that was the last day that at least one person has died on a road waste. And to me, that's unacceptable. And that is what Vision Zero is trying to accomplish. So in terms of Texas and...
 and other cities here in Texas that have adopted Vision Zero. We have Austin, San Antonio, Laredo, Fort Worth, Houston, Denton, Arlington, and Dallas. All these have formally adopted Vision Zero.
 Texas is such a high with safety plan. And if you're not familiar with that, that is our statewide vision and our statewide highway safety plan that spans a couple of years. So on 2017 when the latest version was adopted. Texas for the first time adopted a an aspirational goal of zero death and more recently on May 2019
 DexDoc announced the goal of zero death by 2050 with an interim goal of reducing the fatality by 50% by the year 2035. So you may be asking, how is...
 Vision Zero different than what we've done before. So there are five principles to Vision Zero, and these are the first three. Traffic deaths and severe injuries are preventable. So we do know how to prevent and reduce traffic fatalities and injuries. We have countermeasures that these are proven to work when they are implemented correctly and widely.
 Second, the protection of human life is the highest priority of the transportation system. We often talk about economic development or mobility when the primary goal that we should be talking is that we need to get every user of our system to get home safely.
 Third one, human error is inevitable and the transportation system should be forgiving. So we need to provide the safest facilities possible. But we also need to understand that the users of these facilities are going to be human, so they will make errors. But the system needs to be forgiving when the people make these mistakes.
 Safe systems are more important than influencing behavior in reducing crashes. If you're not familiar with the safe system approach, this is currently being emphasized by Sweden, the Netherlands, Australia, and more. Currently, my own agency, Federal Highway Administration,
 So this also continues to be a growing trend among the traffic safety internationally. And the thought behind here is that we have an ethical responsibility to make things the safest we can. And if you think about it,
 we've been focusing a lot on behavioral solutions. We've been trying to change people behaviors and we've been doing that for at least the last couple of decades. And if we continue to focus on those behavior solutions, or if we keep asking for better users, then we're going to keep and continue seeing the same fatality numbers and same serious injuries number that we've seen for the last couple of decades.
 Now, the last principle is the comprehensive approach, and it involves all the people that is listed here. Sometimes maybe we are kind of siloed, but we need to understand it's not just engineers, it's not just the planners, it's not only law enforcement. It is a cross-sectional approach for all of us working together, and it's really the only way to do this.
 So let's say that an agency decides to adopt Vision Zero. So what does that mean? So these are some common Vision Zero practices. So cities that have adopted Vision Zero, these are some practices that they frequently do. And I'm going to spend the rest of my presentation talking about this.
 So leadership, collaboration, and accountability. First, you need a leader, you need a champion, either somewhat at city council, city manager, the department director that says, hey, this is important, and we're going to do this.
 Most of the cities that are adopting Vision Zero, they establish some sort of task force committee, and they also establish action plans to say what is important. And then they ensure that the leaders and the champions, they hold this action accountable. So they make sure that people are working toward meeting those goals.
 The second one practice is to be data driven. So you need to figure out what your trends are. Certainly the problems that you have in El Paso are not the same that people have in Austin and certainly not the same that people have in New York City. So this practice is about taking the data and being strategic about it to help guide your decision making process.
 implement what works. So we often look at, let's say, an intersection.
 and a single intersection. And we try to figure out how we can address the problem that we have at that single intersection. But we need to take a step back and look at the overall picture and identify those trends that are happening. So you need to identify, I'm having intersection crashes, bicycle crashes, pedestrian crashes. So you need to identify the strengths and then implement countermeasures that work and implement it widely.
 So from my presentation, I've been telling you, yes, we know how how to reduce fatalities. We know how to reduce severe serious injuries and
 And this is what I'm talking about. So on the screen, there are just three of the 20 federal highway proven safety kind of measures. And these are all generally accepted and these should be used widely. For example, we have roundabouts. These are showing a 78 to 82 reduction in crashes. And they reduce the crashes because they reduce the speed and reduce the conflict points.
 Another one is Pedestrian Hybrid Beacons. I don't know if you guys are familiar with this, but this is a tool that pedestrians get to use to get across the street with a steady red. And it is less expensive than a static signal. The average crash reduction for this is about 29% total and around 55% crash reduction for pedestrian-related crashes.
 Now, the third one that I wanted to talk about is road diets. So basically what this involves is that you convert an existing four-lane roadway into a three-lane roadway. So you have two through lanes, and then you have your one...
 two-way left turn lane in the middle. And these are showing anywhere from 19 to 47 reduction in crashes. So these are only three, but we have 20 proven safety kind of measures that I recommend you look into this. And very likely, with the exception of roundabouts, many of these have a low cost of implementation. So prioritize safety.
 This is the next practice and what this really does is that it really builds a safety culture by doing all of the action that I've talked here. And when we usually talk about safety, we often talk about street design or standards.
 But we need to understand that safety, it goes much further into the project development process. For example, you have maintenance of streets. So whenever you're planning to do a simple overlay, that's an opportunity that you get to do a reconfiguration or your roadway and maybe implement a road diet at basically no additional cost. So we need to prioritize funding for safety and maintain a collaborative approach to safety
 really prioritize safety within your city. So again, just to recap, you need to select a champion,
 Many, for example, if I talk about the city of Boston and San Antonio, something that they develop is a high injury network. So these are, you can think about it as network maps. So not only they have identified the locations where they have the most of the crashes, but also the locations where the crashes that are happening are more severe.
 So I'm talking about the K and A crashes, the fatalities and the suspected severe injuries. Also, many of the cities that have adopted Vision Zero, they established some sort of fatal crash review committee, which I believe is something very familiar to what your city is doing.
 And the last thing I'd like to say that it is data, data, data, because certainly other cities have done other things, but you need to look at your data, you need to evaluate your trends, and after that, then you can apply the kind of measures that work for you and your city.
 So for the resources, one of the things that we do best on my agency is that we are part of a lot of working groups and coalitions. And on the screen, there are a couple of resources that I wanted to share with you. So Vision Zero Network, that first one, that helps communities and locals to establish and achieve a Vision Zero. And now the Road to Zero Coalition, that is more on a...
 national level. So you might be thinking Vision Zero, Road to Zero, there's so many names, but all of these are the same. They have the same principle and the same approach, which is getting to zero fatalities on our roadways.
 The third bullet point, that's the website for my agency, Federal Highway Office of Safety. There you can find the document that we have for the 20 proven safety gun measures. And also we recently put some materials related to the safe system approach that was recently adopted by us.
 The fourth one, Austin Vision Zero, that's the website for City of Austin. And there you can find their action plan, which I want to say among my colleagues is one of the probably the top five within the nation. And the last one, I talk about the strategic Texas Highway Safety Plan.
 And that's the website for the plan for the state of Texas, where you will find the actual plan. And also you can see the emphasis areas that have been identified here in Texas. And with that, I want to thank you for the opportunity to present here. If you have any questions, I'm open. There's no questions. Thank you for your thorough presentation, sir. Mayor, if I could, this is Nana West Street. Oh, yes. Representative Hernandez, please.
 I'm sorry, Hannah, I don't know that because your voice is very low. Did you want to finish your comments there? I don't know. Maybe she was having some technical problems. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gomez, for your presentation. I am very interested in the committee related to looking at deaths and fatalities. Can you just talk about a little bit about what you're seeing in other communities, the composition of those type of committees?
 So usually, uh, they first start off probably having these, uh, these, uh, stakeholder committee. So they this will include all your stakeholders within your city. They also established these, uh, like I mentioned, the crash review team. And this is a, uh,
 multi, you want to say agency effort. So you will include your law enforcement, you will include your planners, your transit. I've often seen even emergency services involved in these meetings.
 And also other cities, they also established a communications related task force. So another part of this is the educational part. For example, let's say that you and your city want to prioritize pedestrian hybrid beacons. Yes, you can install those, but how do you get the message out there to the pedestrian that are going to be using the systems?
 So this outreach committee, they can also help you promote these kind of measures and help the public understand how to use them. And also maybe also attend fairs or other events where you can promote the Vision Zero approach. Okay, great. Thank you. And I'm trying to think if there's an existing committee where we can piggyback.
 to to to look at this because it is a problem. It is a problem in our community and we recognize that. We've we've heard awful stories about young children getting hit near schools or on their way to school. And so this is something that the community very very much cares about. And so I would love an opportunity Hannah Mrs. Williams and for city management to explore further how we can.
 And I know that that's what you're already doing, but it really makes a difference when we integrate and we involve the community and different stakeholders. But thank you for the information. Very, very informative. And I appreciate you being here today. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nunez. Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Schwartzbein.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Gomez, I'm just curious, out of this analysis that you all have conducted, what percentage would include DWIs? Because I feel like that's a whole other monster in and of itself. Is it together or is this a separate thing? You're muted. Can you hear me now, Representative?
 Can you hear me now? Yes, I can hear both of you. Whenever I talk about these percentages of crash reductions, I mean, these are just standalone. For example, if I mentioned pedestrian related crashes, I mean, if the crash involved a pedestrian, it is, I mean, it is counted. So it may have included DWI, I do not know that. So this is Hannah from Streets and Maintenance. Can you hear me clearly?
 Yes. So we do analyze the DWI collisions. We take note of them. However, they are addressed mainly through PD efforts and enforcement from PD.
 Okay so this program essentially wouldn't include those types of accidents correct. DIRECTOR RIVERA- That I mean I want to say yes. However that's something to be determined if the city decides to move forward and adopt Vision Zero in the future.
 Okay, and I think Vision Zero is a great program, right? Who doesn't want to not have any accidents, fatalities out on our roads, and we all want to feel safe, and like how Mr. Gomez mentioned, we all want to have that security of coming home at the end of the day. But I guess, you know, that's something that I would want to see addressed as far as, like, you know,
 That concern, I think, lives a lot in a lot of people's minds, especially driving late at night. So I just want to know if any of that or how it's being implemented, if it is in this program.
 And also, what is the percentage of those DWI accidents versus these other accidents that we're talking about? Okay. We can keep you updated, Representative, on the information regarding the DWIs and Vision Zero. And we will have a presentation sometime this summer in regards to the current cross-functional teams.
 and the DWI percentages will be presented at that time for 2020. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. We have Representative Schwartzbein followed by Representative Danilo. Thank you. City Manager did you have a response there sir.
 What I was just going to say is whenever I made those comments to give Hannah some time to get her sound fixed, I think it's important to mention that, you know, before we put a strategic plan in place, I don't think that we were looking at a lot of these issues comprehensively. The fact that the number of officers was down...
 significantly from where we were 20 years ago and we're currently where we were 20 years ago that says a lot you know in terms of where that wasn't a priority by virtue of adding those additional police officers we were able to stand up a traffic division Police Department several years ago that now looks at giving tickets and monitoring these kinds of things that weren't in place before.
 The educational programs that we put in place that we presented to the council before about it can wait. If you remember us doing that, we did that in concert with text on the funds that you approve through the different budget packages that we put in front of you, a lot of which is going towards lighting throughout the streets.
 So this hasn't been ignored in recent years. It's something that's been given the right priority, but as you can see, it still continues to be a concern. So we've been working with TxDOT and working with FHWA to continue down that path. So I just simply wanted to point out that your comments, your priorities have not fallen on deaf ears. You've actually acted on these things and there's just more action that's required. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez.
 Mr. Schwartzman, followed by Representative Ranallo. REP. Thank you again. No, I appreciate this presentation is long overdue. You know, when it comes towards these kind of situations, the biggest question is not about identifying the problem. It's really identifying the solution. But more than that, how do you fund that solution? And that is sort of the question there. We all know that we have these challenges with traffic.
 We know that we need more officers for enforcement. And we also know too, that there's ways that we can design our streets that can make them safer as well, whether that is traffic calming measures, widths of our streets, reforming our code so that not every single street we build is big enough for the largest service vehicle we have to be able to drive through without having to go below five miles per hour. However, when we build those streets for the biggest of cars
 Um, for that, we're tri- that trade-off is that we're making it less safe for pedestrians and less safe for our residents. And so the question really becomes, how do we go and make sure that our code and our ordinance reflects not just the issues and priorities of departments, but the issues and priorities of our citizens, and our children, and our bike riders, and our folks that want to walk to work, walk to school,
 walk to get a bite to eat or walk to get a cup of coffee. And the other issue as well is how do we go and fund those? How do we go and fund those, right? Because we know that as good of a buffered bike lane is, having a protected bike lane that has a curb or some sort of physical obstacle is going to be safer for pedestrians and safer for cyclists. And there is a dollar sign that is attached to those solutions.
 So I think when we look at this, this presentation is great, but I also think we need to be mad realistic in looking at what are those solutions going to cost and what kind of intestinal fortitude we have as a council and as a city to make sure that those solutions are addressed, not just in word, but in deeds, as well as in financing them as well.
 And that is my comments. Thank you again for the presentation. It was really well, and it's wonderful to see all the council members here. And thank you, staff, for the presentation. Thank you, Representative Schwartzman. Representative Nello.
 Thank you. And thank you, Representative Schwartzbein, for bringing that up. You know, this is a project that is really near to my district. I've been speaking with the city engineer about issues like this a lot. You know, our NTMP program only goes so far. And there are a lot of issues that our residents have that aren't solved by that. So I really agree with what Representative Schwartzbein said and understanding, you know, what's going on.
 there is a cost to this, but what is important? Safety is really the key here. But my question and hand, I don't know if you can answer this is how does this align with the presentation that was given to Council a few months ago about complete streets? Complete streets is definitely
 something that's at i don't want to say added but it would complement vision zero um it encompasses the whole purpose of vision zero um by ensuring that there are complete streets and if that answers your question it's just something we would work into the the plan is what you're saying yes we would integrate it okay thank you so much for the clarification i appreciate it
 Thank you again for the presentation and I know as a council in this city we look forward to updates on how we can keep our community safe. So thank you Ms. Williams and the rest of your team. And with that Ms. Prine. Mayor we do have public comment. Oh no we have public comment. Yes sir we have Ms. Marilyn Guida followed by Mr. Scott White. Ms. Guida star six ma'am to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon ma'am.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council representatives, and City Manager. I am 100% in favor of the goal, zero deaths on our streets. And I'm really glad to see that quality of life is identified in sub-goal 7.2 on this issue. But I'm not completely in favor of this item because the details and the documents for this item may be necessary.
 but I don't think they're sufficient to reach the goals. The blending of science, technology, engineering, and math with social sciences is what we need to have the balance, to have the optimum outcome of our efforts in any endeavor, especially in getting to zero deaths on our roadways.
 For me, a huge concern in reading the documents on this item is trying to find an acknowledgement that human beings drive vehicles. Human beings are pedestrians. They push strollers. They use wheelchairs. So both the driver behavior and all those other humans in the driving landscape have to be taken into account. We are all stakeholders on this item.
 I see in the documents certain statements which deny the importance of human behavior. Those statements are given in the email I sent to you yesterday. If human behavior is left out or considered a minor factor, the proposed changes will not be as effective as they could be.
 In the FHWA document, item 19 does acknowledge human beings through the road safety audit. And I agree with some of those points about including people and human factors.
 I think road safety audits should be performed in all phases of project development at the earliest stage possible and from planning through construction. Now, if we expect people to comply with an introduction of new signs, new signals, new configurations of streets, et cetera,
 We need to find a way to convince people to agree to accept this new set of social norms. So this is not the same as education. Social norms provide us with an expected idea of how to behave and function in order to provide order and predictability in society.
 If we can't get a significant percent of the population to accept the new configurations and features of the roadway and adjust their driving behavior accordingly, we won't achieve our data goals.
 A robust effort is needed for Vision Zero strategies using a wide variety of approaches to reach a significant percentage of our population. I want El Paso to get to zero. Let's work on figuring out how to do that. Thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. And I know that this council is a priority to make sure that our community and our road continues to be safe for our community. So thank you for that.
 The next speaker is Mr. Scott White. Mr. White, star six, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, council. Can you hear me? Mr. White. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor. It's good to hear you, if not see you. It's been a while, so thank you for coming back and agreeing to serve as mayor again. That's appreciated. I'm Scott White. I'm policy director for Villa Passa Bicycle Pedestrian Coalition, and I'm
 I think you've all heard me at one point or another say, yes, we need to adopt division zero. And we do need, as Ms. Guida said, we need to change the culture of our community when it comes to transportation, those assumptions, those beliefs, those values that say, we can drive as fast as we want, or that I don't have to slow down in somebody else's neighborhood, but I want them to slow down in my neighborhood.
 We need to be get back to that point where we are considerate of others. So no matter how they get around, they, as Mr. Bergo said, can arrive safely. They can get home safely. No one should pay the ultimate price just for wanting to get somewhere. And,
 We, it's going to be a long haul and it's going to take a lot of effort, but we need to start now working on that change to shift that paradigm, to shift those values, to shift those beliefs, to shift our standards and our policies and our expectations so that we can get there.
 I know the state has adopted a road to zero goal of reaching zero fatalities by 2050. I think we should do the same or even be even more aggressive.
 but we need to fess up and say we can do more to prevent these traffic fatalities. And I hope this presentation has inspired all of you and I am of course always available to talk with you and talk about safety and I hope over the course of the next few months
 This doesn't become something we just kind of pass on but that we embrace fully and we soon adopt a vision zero policy. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I think the number that showed on the presentation that was very telling was that November 7 2000 was the last time we did not have a fatality on Texas Highway. So that's an important number. And I can tell you that this council is very sure about making sure our constituents.
 all in shape out there and we're working towards that goal. With that that representative Schwartzman. FRED PODESTA. I just want to thank thank Scott for speaking out and as well I think this council is taking steps
 to address some of these concerns. I think making one of our legislative party agendas supporting legislation from the state level that can give us the opportunity to lower speed limits to 25 mile per hour in residential streets is one that I think is,
 addresses and helps to address a concern that exists in all of our neighborhoods as well. But, you know, it really comes down to what are we willing to prioritize and afford when it comes to this? Because some of these improvements have to be addressed with infrastructure, has to be addressed by how we build our streets and the kind of code
 Um, in terms of how wide we let our streets be and who we're really building for on our streets. Because when you build for 18 wheelers and you build for large trucks, you know, there's a trade off with that. When you go into into older parts of our town where it was built, you know, more pedestrian scale, you can see that it's safer.
 So those are really questions that are not abstractions. It's questions that we're dealing with with proposed projects into the future, whether they're large highway projects or reconstruction of streets. But it's something that we need to factor in and consider and think about each step of the way moving forward. Thank you.
 And with that, Ms. Prine, we'll go to the next item, please. Yes, Mayor, if we can turn to page 16 and go to item number 54. This is another one that was moved to the forefront. This is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to execute free bus rights to the citizens of El Paso who need transportation to have their COVID-19 vaccine administered. Motion to approve. Mayor, may I be recognized to speak?
 Hello, can you hear me? Hello? Can you hear me? May I be recognized? Uh-huh. Okay, thank you.
 So the idea for free bus rides for riders who are getting vaccines came to me because of the overwhelming resiliency that our community has. In El Paso we are constantly looking out for each other and always looking and always asking how we can help our neighbors. During these unprecedented times we have all had to get creative and figure out how to move forward, how to give back and most importantly it makes me proud to see everyone asking how may I help.
 Giving free bus rides for our constituents to facilitate vaccine distribution is a way that we as city leaders can show our constituents even further that we will do whatever it takes to get back to normal and we will do whatever it takes for everyone to succeed. My message to my community is this, together we are prevailing. I would also like to thank Representative Salcido for co-sponsoring this item with me. A big thanks to Ellen Smy and our city staff for making this item possible. Thank you all.
 And I hope that you all will be supporting this item. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Salcedo?
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Representative Rodriguez, for bringing this item before the council. For District 6 and District 5, I know that there isn't a real centralized vaccination area. So for my district, I wanted to really focus on ways that we could find solutions for them to be able to get there and get vaccinated. And so this is something that definitely provides a solution. Thank you, Mayor.
 working with the city and also with Representative Rodriguez. So I definitely think this is a need that we need, we need to for a solution for our districts and for also to get the community vaccinated. And thank you so much. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Thank you Representative Sousaida. Representative Nelo.
 I think this is a really great initiative and I want to thank my fellow council members for bringing it forward and I'm fully in support of it. I just want to make a statement as a conversation that I've had with Chief D'Agostino and I think it's just to be noted I think it's very important that when we are scheduling COVID vaccines
 whether it's first or second shot, that we are asking people if they are seeking public transportation. I have been reached out or constituents have reached out to me to say, you know, they were scheduled for a Sunday for their follow-up vaccine. So they just didn't go because they couldn't get public transportation. And so I think this is program is really great. And I just want to make the council aware and reiterate that concern for my constituents. So thank you all very much. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you. Representative Sadega.
 Yes. Thank you to my representatives, my fellow representatives, Rodriguez and Salcedo, for bringing this forward. I just have a question about logistically, how is this going to work? Do you all have the details on that or? Is there a smite? Is there a smite on the phone? I mean online? While they're coming on the line, they have to show that they have an appointment. How far it shows that. Oh, okay.
 I don't know if Ellen's on the line. I'm sorry. This is Ellen Smyth, Environmental Services. I did not hear the question, though. Will you repeat the question, please? Yes. I was just wondering how logistically this is going to work for the free bus rides.
 Oh, yes, ma'am. We had spoken, and we agreed that the QR code that is sent by email from OEM, once you receive your reservation, that the passenger would just show that code to the driver, and then they would be able to either ride the bus to the –
 the UMC facility over at the Coliseum or the city facility since we're working together now over at the Civic Center. It would not include the George Perry site because we don't have any buses in that area. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Ms. White. You're welcome. With that, do we have a motion? There is a motion and a second to approve item number 54. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortland. Aye. Thank you. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Aye.
 I vote yes and thank you Representative Rodriguez and Salcido for bringing this forward. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? I too want to thank my colleagues for bringing it forward. Aye. Liz Arraga? And the motion passes unanimously. The next item moved to the forefront is on page 14. This is item number 45.
 This is presentation and discussion by Project Arriba on their annual report on status of activities during the fiscal year, use of grant funds, and progress in the performance measures required under the agreement executed on October 2, 2018 with the City of El Paso. Good afternoon. I'm Monica Fuentes. This is Monica Fuentes with Economics Development.
 Good afternoon. Item 45 is Project Arriba delivering their annual report to council as required in their Chapter 3A agreement executed on October 2, 2018. Mr. Roman Ortiz, CEO for Project Arriba, will be presenting the annual report. If I can get IT to assist me in bringing up the presentation, please, and allowing him control. Sure.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. Again, it's an honor and a pleasure to be able to present the great work that we're doing in partnership with the City of El Paso through Project Arriba. This is our second year final presentation. We're currently in our third year, but just wanna give you a quick update on how we ended year two. So I will go ahead and I think I have access. If not, next slide, please.
 Okay, so at Proyecto Arriba in general, we have four main goals. That's to have a population access post-secondary education, and not only having them access but persist through post-secondary education onto completion with the end goal of being job placed within this region here in El Paso. Next slide, please.
 In 2018, as was mentioned, we entered into a second five-year grant agreement with the City of El Paso to provide workforce and economic development services to El Paso. Next slide. The purpose of this grant is to create a permanent and sustainable source of local healthcare professionals, teachers, and other demand occupations that serve as a severe shortage here in El Paso. Next slide.
 Obviously, Project Arriba has graduated hundreds and hundreds of healthcare professionals, and that hasn't obviously...
 especially during the pandemic year that we have had, you can see that our nonprofit is an essential organization. Just last year alone, we graduated over 125 people into health care professions, and over 90 percent of those are getting jobs into the health care community here in El Paso.
 So thank you very much for your support of Proyecto Arriba and helping us continue to create essential workers. Next slide. Council, we're missing Rep. Schwartzbein, Anelo, Hernandez, Rodriguez. I'm here. Thank you.
 Well, so what's the impact been so far? So the impact, the City of El Paso Impact Fund in the amount of $300,000 for year two was leveraged with other federal, state, and local dollars to promote needed job training in this region. The city funding represents about one-fifth of our total funding. At the close of year two, Proyecto Arriba met and or exceeded all of our contract performance measures.
 Our program graduates, these essential skilled workers, are equipped with the knowledge, the skills, and the abilities needed to attain meaningful employment that moves them and their families out of poverty. Next slide. Our tagline is investing in human capital, and that is exactly what the city of El Paso is doing. They're investing in the human capital of El Paso.
 As mentioned before, our four main goals are access, persistence, completion, and job placement, and I will speak to those on the next slides.
 For our contract, we proposed that we would case manage a total of 365 El Pasoans by the close of year two, and that 60% of them would be at or below 100% of the Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines. In actuality, Project Arriba case managed 423 El Pasoans in long-term training. Of the 423, over 88% were at or below poverty when they entered into training.
 In order to exceed this targeted figure, Project Arriba, even in the pandemic, we facilitated 37 weekly in-house orientations through means like this. We facilitated two community outreaches that are for the public as well as two outreaches targeting a veteran population.
 During the contract, our program collaborated with various organizations to include all of our training providers, which include community college, UTEP, and Texas Tech, school districts, obviously our government agencies with the city of El Paso as well as the county of El Paso, community-based organizations, veteran fairs, local hospitals, and employers. So this resulted in 247 applications submitted during the contract year. Next slide.
 Of the 423 case managed under the City of El Paso Impact Fund during this grant period of 2018 to August 31st of 2020, the following demographics are true. 83% of them are female, 51% have dependent children, their average ages are 30 years, 93% Hispanic, and 31% received food stamps. Next slide.
 I hope you notice the really cool pictures that we have there. Those are our real participants, some of the pictures that they sent to us over the year. Again, under access, we proposed that the city participants, that we would sponsor at least five individuals in the Bridges to Success ESL to Living Wage program.
 In actual activity, we have sponsored now 15 individuals into the ESL to Living Wage Program. What makes our ESL program so unique is that we have a pathway to successful job placement, not just having a good comprehension of the English language, but leading to getting a good job here in El Paso. Next slide.
 persistence. That is how many students can stay in school even when there's a pandemic and even when they're at high risk. Our proposition was to maintain at least an 80% academic retention rate year to year.
 and really because of our innovative case management approach and our wraparound support services we were able to maintain a 92 percent academic retention rate over this contract year our case management is comprehensive and it's centered around the participant and it provides an unbelievable valuable service to the students as well as to the training provider in order to help make sure that
 we increase the probability of these at-risk students continuing through school and ultimately finishing. Oftentimes throughout the year, our case managers met with training providers to better understand changes within the institution's degree programs. It is precisely this type of information sharing that aids on an at-risk population in achieving such high persistence rates. Next slide.
 Our next goal is to complete individuals. Our proposition was to graduate at least 60 individuals by the close of year two. In actual activity, we graduated 77 City of El Paso residents into high-demand occupations with either a license certification, an associate's degree, or a bachelor's degree from the El Paso Community College, the University of Texas at El Paso, and or Texas Tech School of Nursing.
 Cumulatively, Project EREVA, with the support of the city grant, has graduated 140 participants from year one and year two. All graduates were trained at the community college. We had 77 graduates there. We had six graduates at Texas Tech and 57 graduates at UTEP. And on average, took about 1.6 years to graduate with a post-secondary degree. Next slide.
 Again, as I mentioned, we have 140 cumulative graduates over the last 24 months. And these are the types of essential workers that is very much needed, especially in our region. You can see here that we graduated 63 bachelor's of science and nursing students, followed by 38 associate degree nursing students.
 25 licensed vocational students, as well as other ancillary healthcare careers that you see there, which were all in demand and very much needed in this region. Next slide. Job placement is the ultimate end result. Our proposition was to job place at least 50 graduates with wages at or above $14 an hour.
 In actual activity, we job placed 58 participants that entered into living wage employment as of August 31st, that should be 2020, excuse me. Those average wages, this is what's amazing, we were able to job place them into jobs that averaged them $23.85 per hour. And we're continuing maintaining these relationships with employers and graduates. Okay.
 Cumulatively, in years one and two, we have job-placed 122 El Paso residents, and their average wage is $23.86.
 And during year two of the contract, our case managers facilitated 50 vision initiative and perseverance workshops with all of our participants. And what the workshops do is that they develop that individual for the workplace so that they become even a better employee once they get on the job training and obviously in the job. Next slide. I will quickly go over some of the highlights of the financial overview. Next slide.
 In 2019, the program had 1.6 million in revenues, of which 1.2 was in grant revenue and 400,000 in unrestricted contributions and 1,300 in other revenue. As far as our expenses for that year, we had 1.5 million in expenses.
 The way we spent our money is very important. Eighty-four percent of our dollars went to program activities, 12 percent to admin, and 4 percent for fundraising. Directly, we spent over $725,000 in direct costs to help students achieve their goals, and indirectly, $791,000 was spent. Next slide.
 Per our contract and as well as per the goals of Proyecto Riba, we're independently audited every year. SB&G has been our financial auditors now, and according to our financial statements, the financial statements were presented fairly in all material respects. The financial position of Proyecto Riba as of the close of December 2019 and 2018
 And the changes in its net assets and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. That is accountantees for they did a great job with their finances. Next slide.
 With regard to the impact fund dollars that were spent, 68,000 was spent on tuition, 34,000 on books, 30,000 on school materials, 10,000 in childcare, and 156,000 in case management and other program related costs. Next slide.
 I want to make sure that you all are well aware that Project Aliba is a platinum participant, which is the highest ranking in the GuideStar ranking for nonprofits.
 We have a matching funds clause in our contract with the City of El Paso, whereby we need to raise either equal or greater than the amount that is invested by the City of El Paso. And so during year two of the contract term, Project DERIVA had matching funds of 372,000 in state and federal grants and 295,000 in new or increased private investments.
 So year two matching funds total was over $667,000, which exceeds the city year two funds of 300,000. Next slide.
 This breaks it down between federal, state, and private funds. You can see there we were able to match those funds and increase it by 372,000, which with regard to a Wagner-Peyser funding, as well as our ACE grant funding. And if you'll recall, our ACE grant funding is matched. That's the dollar for dollar match that we have with the city of El Paso.
 And then our private funds, you can see there that we've fundraised 295,000 in brand new or increased from prior year private funding. And those funders are there listed for your detail as well. Next slide.
 On behalf of the board of directors and the staff and really the participants of Project Arriba, we want to thank you for your vision for Project Arriba, your vision for El Paso. We want to thank you for your many, many years of support. You are our longest partner. Project Arriba is now celebrating its 21st year, and you have been with us since the beginning. And so we just want to thank you with that.
 The last slide is just my contact information, and if there's any questions that I can answer, I'm here for you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Tortoise. Nice to see you again. Good to see you too, Mayor. And with that, Ms. Prime, next item, please. Mayor, may we recess for the Mass Transit Department Board meeting? Absolutely. Thank you. Council, may we have a adjourn at 622 p.m.? May we have a motion to reconvene the regular City Council meeting? So moved. Motion to reconvene.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 622 p.m. Mayor, may we go to call to the public? Yes.
 Thanks, it's 622, I appreciate that. Yes, thank you. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or a group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business. Nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening we have five members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Lily Limon. Her topic is public libraries.
 Ms. Limon, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good evening. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. A year ago today, we were coming to realize that the coronavirus was quickly gripping our entire community. On April 27th, the city announced that approximately 167 city employees were being furloughed. They were employees that worked at the libraries, the zoo, parks and recreation, and museums.
 What was very surprising from reviewing that roster of employees was that the largest number were library employees. How is it possible to gut the library system in that manner?
 earlier this year i requested a copy of the city's plan for reopening of the libraries the response i was provided was that the city did not have a plan to reopen the libraries in a community that has a low literacy rate it is inconceivable that a key quality of life element could be dismissed so easily
 These employees have spent almost a year waiting for the news that they can return to work. Many of them have suffered immensely by not being able to pay their rent or mortgage, utilities and even groceries. For many of them, this is the first time they have been unable to provide for their family. On January 31st of this year, I sent a request asking for a roster of all top-level city employees that have received a pay raise during the pandemic.
 A total of 30 employees saw a decrease in their pay dated May 24th. And on August 16th, that amount was added back to the salary. Not one of the top level employees saw a decrease in their salary. And yes, all 30 of them received at least one salary increase. An increase that goes against every single element of compassion.
 On February 23rd, the city announced that furloughed employees would be laid off. Imagine the horrible feeling they experienced. On February 24th, the media reported that the library employees were going to be reinstated. A horrible rollercoaster ride, but hopefully all will be reinstated. All the information I presented to you city reps is info that is readily available to you without going through an open records request.
 I urge you to take a closer look at what is happening in our libraries. I urge you to question decisions that go contrary to the vision and mission statements of the city. A community that prides itself in its quality of life cannot be honest with itself. If the opening of the zoo comes before all libraries are open. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Othin Medina.
 Mr. Medina, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good evening, Mr. Medina. You'll have three minutes, sir. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, and staff. My name is Joe Medina. El Paso is my hometown. I am addressing you as chair of the Paso del Norte Democrats. My remarks are prompted by some of the recent actions by the city that are very puzzling,
 For one, for instance, while you strive to improve the lives of our homeless veterans, and rightfully so, at the same time you unfairly treat our library employees. Another example, while you strive to prevent the euthanasia of our beloved animals and mean offer curbside service, and rightfully so, then you turn around and deny our citizens' library curbside service.
 I believe that this is only the tip of the iceberg what is going on with trying to balance budgets and so on and so forth. Our community needs and deserves library services throughout the city. City voters resoundingly defeated the ineffective mayor and elected our current mayor, an honorable man.
 and we intend to support him. So, cooperation, teamwork, and support of our mayor, as well as respect for our community, is what we expect of all of you. We would like for our city manager to effectively communicate with the mayor and respect his agenda, communicate with the city representatives and with all parties involved concerning honest issues that require compromises.
 Whether or not there are tax increases is a function of the elected officials and not the hired hands of the city. We're asking full cooperation from all city administrators and staff. Everyone should be listening, learning, and cooperating with the leadership from Mayor Leaser. The voice and election by the people demand cooperation from all of you.
 We're looking forward to seeing your results and thank you for allowing me to address you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Sharon Miles-Bonart. Her topic is golden opportunity and misuse of quality of life funds. Ms. Bonart, star 6 to unmute your telephone please. Good evening, ma'am. You have three minutes. Okay. Thank you, Mayor and Council and staff. My name is Sharon Miles-Bonart. I'm concerned that quality of life funds are scheduled to be misused.
 And there is a golden opportunity to wisely use these funds, $595,000, to create a unique open space experience which will draw ecotourism. In 2008, the Mountain to River project was created by the community. It is codified in the city's Green Plan and has been the number one priority of the Open Space Advisory Board.
 In 2012, the Quality of Life bonds dedicated $11 million for open space acquisition, trailheads, and trails.
 Currently, the Mountain to River design is 99% cement next to the six-lane Trans Mountain Road and cement walks through a west side upper valley neighborhood. The current plan is basically a street project using open space trail funds.
 A once in a lifetime opportunity has come to the city. TxDOT plans to build an overpass over I-10 to Los Moches Drive. The city could piggyback the Open Space Trail Fund with the TxDOT project budget and create a beautiful, unusual, and memorable experience for all trail users.
 The trail begins in the park, it's Spanklin Mountain State Park, connecting to a Vista Arroyo, part of which was purchased with stormwater funds. The trail can meander through the Arroyo, then continue on to the scenic Los Moches Overpass and on to the Rio Grande River.
 By having the trail go through the Evispa Arroyo and over the Los Mochis Overpass, the Quality of Life Open Space Fund will be used to enhance the trail experience of natural open space. Which would you rather use to relax and enjoy nature? Miles of cement sidewalks next to a busy street? Or natural trails in the peaceful solitude of a truly open space amenity? Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro or Mr. Ramon Montoya. I don't see their phone numbers in the queue, however, I'll call them in case they've dialed in from a different number. Mr. Michael Castro or Mr. Ramon Montoya. Star six will unmute your telephone. Michael Castro or Ramon Montoya. Mayor, I don't see either of their telephones in the queue or any other phone numbers that I do not recognize.
 thank you very much mr karn with that uh that's called to the public can we um resume the agenda please yes sir the next item is on page 14 this is item number 46 this is a presentation and discussion by pioneers 21 on their annual report and status of activities during the fiscal year use of grant funds and progress in the performance measures required under the grant under the agreement executed on november 12 2019 with the city of el paso
 Good afternoon. This is Monica Fuentes with Economic Development. Item 46 is Pioneers 21 delivering their annual report to Council as required in their Chapter 3D agreement. This was executed on November 12, 2019. And Mr. Carlos Vela, Executive Director for Pioneers 21, will be presenting the annual report. If I can get IT to bring it up. Okay, there we have it up. Thank you very much.
 Good. Hello, everyone. Good evening. Good afternoon. It's my pleasure to see a few of you had the pleasure of meeting before and to meet you, Mr. Mayor. It's a pleasure to be here today and Representative Molina, who I haven't had the pleasure to meet before. So I'm Carlos Martinez Bella. I'm executive director of Pioneers 21 and I'm here to present the executive report
 of Pioneers 21. Next slide, please. Can I request control of this slide? No, so I'll just take what I needed, right? So just as a bit of background, Pioneers 21 was founded as the hub of human innovation in 2011, the hub as used to be known in the community. And it changed to Pioneers 21 at the end of 2019.
 And the rationale for this change was as part of the renewal of the organization. This coming March 18th is going to be three years since I moved to El Paso to become Executive Director of Pioneers 21. And the name Pioneers 21 is inspired by the idea of the US-Mexico border as the land of the pioneers of the 21st century.
 Um, Pioneers 21 is, uh, that's where the name Pioneers 21 comes from. Our board of directors is chaired by Mr. Leonard Goodman, Tripper Goodman, Leonard Goodman. And we have just a great board that I have had the pleasure to work with. And, um,
 On behalf of our Board of Directors and certainly of my team, I would like to thank all of you. Thank the City of El Paso and the City Council.
 for your support throughout almost 10 years for the Hub of Human Innovation before and now for Pioneers 21. The report that I'm presenting today is, you know, we renewed our agreement, signed a new agreement with the city back in November 2019. So this report is corresponds to the first year of this agreement. The next slide, please.
 So thank you again to all of you. And certainly to the staff at the Economic Development Department, with whom we have had the pleasure to work on this. The next slide, please. So as part of our change of name to Pioneers 21, we adopted a new mission. Can you please move forward?
 And the mission of Pioneers 21 is to unleash the creative and economic potential of El Paso and in the longer term, we hope, of the U.S.-Mexico border cities as a whole. Next slide, please. We, you know, our work is founded for a great love and commitment for our community. We are believers in the potential of El Paso and of the borderland and of the border in general. Next slide, please.
 I'm sure a few of you have seen this image that I love to bring up a few times, which is that we think that the US-Mexico border as a land, as a place, imagination and possibility. You know, very often, even within a community, the border, our community, the border is seen as a problem. And for us, it is not. It is an opportunity.
 And within our work, where is our work focused in practice? Next slide, please. So we were founded originally to focus on high-tech entrepreneurship, on technology entrepreneurship. We've widened our focus tremendously, and that's the core of our mission. Certainly throughout the years, and now more than ever, on the growth and reinvention of small businesses, SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises.
 And we also believe that we need to be part of a collaborative effort throughout our community involving our peer organizations such as MCA and certainly UTEP, Texas Tech, and Technology Hub in Juarez to collaborate for economic growth and renewal of our economy. Next slide, please. And these three areas get materialized in three ways.
 The first, which is the core of our mission, is through technical assistance and training for entrepreneurs and small businesses. So we help and support entrepreneurs, startups and small businesses to start, launch and grow anywhere from ideation to business start and acceleration and growth in all established and emerging industries and sectors.
 So we do this through entrepreneurship and innovation education and through a very unique approach of customized coaching and mentoring. Next slide, please. Just to give you an idea of the companies and entrepreneurs that we worked with during the last year, it was actually a very good year for us in terms of the companies we worked with in a very diverse wide array of sectors. And I highlight in particular four examples.
 Bright Soul Tech, it's a digital media company that grew as many of the, had one of their best years ever, that as many digital companies did during the pandemic. eBuilder Direct, it's already a graduate of us, one of the great case success stories in our community. It's an e-commerce portal for car auctions in a very specialized market. Thank you.
 reposts, that's how they call it. And it's a great story, you know, their revenues are in the millions, even during the pandemic. Before the pandemic, they were hiring and had 14 employees. They downsized and now are growing again. Florence Cattle is an agribusiness. They import a particular kind of cattle. They import the embryos from Italy.
 a canina cattle, which is a highly regarded and high priced. And it's already, it's growing and they have presence in several of restaurants in El Paso. And Traffic Tickets 915, a lawyer which started a small digital intermediation company in El Paso and now is operating all over Texas and last year had the best month. And like that, there are many other cases that we can cite. The next slide please.
 The second area, oh, before I move to that, so, you know, an important project in which we're involved together with Technology Hub in Juarez and funded by Microsoft and which speaks to this relevance of collaboration and the unique opportunities in the border is the Bridge Accelerator. It just finished its third cohort of companies just back in
 December was the demo day and the final award ceremony was a few weeks ago. And it builds on a very unique opportunity to our region, which is that maquiladoras buy $39 billion annually in goods and services, and only 2% is supplied by local businesses.
 So what this program does is this selects a number of small businesses from the region and upgrades their capabilities, their business model, their innovation capacity, and connects them with potential clients. And it's been a great success. There were 11 companies participating in the last cohort, which, because of opportunities derived from their participation, created 75 new jobs, have $4.5 million in purchase orders, and...
 $540,000 of investment committed. Next slide.
 The second area of work, so the first one was the direct support for entrepreneurs and small businesses, are events, which are really fundamental to create community and to bring a sense of new economic opportunities in our region. Last year, we had a series of pioneer conversations, which bring to highlight success stories of entrepreneurs in the region and other civic and business leaders in the region.
 The Pioneer Coffee Hour, which is the morning event we have, the graphic you have there is the announcement of one we had past June with a consultant from Texas, MIT graduate, who spoke about the alliance to end plastic waste.
 And then the Pioneer Thursday, which is a series of features for local entrepreneurs and also workshops. We had one on food and beverage entrepreneurship. Next slide, please. You know, that was one of the press that we got in one of our Pioneer conversations with the story of Novamex.
 the uh haritos it's a wonderful local story of a global business that grew out of el paso that a lot of members many members of our community do not know and they were very inspired by this story next slide please
 The third area is outreach and civic engagement. Don't worry, we didn't have those gatherings during the pandemic. That was right before the pandemic. That was during the visit of Professor Michael Piore from MIT, who we organized a seminar at UTEP in collaboration with the College of Business, and he held a meet and greet at our space.
 in the 500 Overland Building. What do we mean by outreach and civic engagement? It means to be out in the community engaged, spreading the word about innovation and entrepreneurship, but also spreading the word about El Paso to other locales, other cities, other states, other organizations, so that they can see what is going on in our community. Part of our goal is to change the narrative of the US-Mexico border,
 And then, next slide please. Just as an example of this role in outreach and civic engagement, this is not from this past year, but from the previous year,
 because it was very important and with support from city council, we were part of a delegation to go to South by Southwest. We had the best, I think all of us who were there know that we had the best city presence of any city in the world in that international pavilion, and it was just a wonderful showcase of what we are as a borderland. The next slide, please.
 And then another example is the El Paso Innovation Awards. Again, last year, we didn't hold them. This year, we're planning to hold them virtually. But again, to recognize civic leaders who make contributions to the innovation economy. This was the last live event that we had for the Innovation Awards with Cathy Chen from Palo Alto, El Paso.
 Dr. Diana Natalicio and Ricardo Mora from Technology Hub. And I will mention also that last year, and I realized that I didn't include that slide, we were featured in a national organization called ENGINE, which is a startup and entrepreneurship policy and advocacy organization
 in Washington, D.C., and San Francisco. And we were featured in their series called El Paso Everywhere. It was a wonderful opportunity for us. Sorry, Startups Everywhere and El Paso was featured as one of the cities that they are featured last year. Next slide, please.
 So in terms of our metrics, the ones that we have required for the agreement in our chapter three agreement with the city, they have to do mostly with how many people participate in our events and workshops and talks, and also how many entrepreneurs and businesses we help. I'm happy to report that last year, despite the pandemic, we did well in terms of our metrics to some degree.
 the virtual, the moving our programming virtually helped us to do this. And we hope we're certainly on track to do this this year. We've had a bit of a slow start for the year, but we're going to be fine by the time of the end of our agreement. And then the next slide shows the outcome metrics.
 There is no performance requirement here, but I'm showing to you the evolution of the five metrics that we are required to report on over the last few years.
 three years. I add an asterisk there regarding the average compensation. It's a tricky measure for entities like ours because we work with companies and entrepreneurs who many times do not pay themselves a salary.
 So you can have six companies that have a very tiny or no payroll and then one which has a real payroll. And then when you make the calculation, everything gets distorted. This is a metric that works well when you have an agreement with a company that is coming to town and telling you, you know, we're going to hire these many employees and this is how much we're going to pay. Then the next slide, please.
 So the next slide shows our top priority for 2021, which is to be part of our city's economic recovery by focusing on our core mission, which is to support entrepreneurs and small businesses. Next, please. And to do this, we are we have designed and we're working to implement right now to get the funding for a major upgrade to how we do technical assistance, training, coaching, mentoring for entrepreneurs and small businesses.
 And at the core of this reinvention, the next slide please, is what we call an interactive learning community, which is not just moving our programming online to try to replicate what we do live, but rather to create a tool that is based online combined with...
 life training and skills for online courses, for companies and for individuals to learn core business skills. I think that all of us during the pandemic last year and certainly all of the agencies and entities that were involved in helping businesses realized that many of them lack the core skills.
 So this will allow us to do that too. And certainly also to build community around different sectors, food, technology, and many others that we envision. The next slide, please. So essentially, the change as we rethink how we do training, coaching, and mentoring for Pioneers 21. Next, please.
 Right now we work in a way that is on-demand, customized and individualized. This change, we would add another approach, which is, the next slide please, through the interactive learning community, a cohort-based, structured, specialized and scalable approach. Next slide please.
 Over a period of six weeks or so, we would put a cohort of companies or entrepreneurs to a very rigorous program that will allow us to move from a goal of training 12 companies or entrepreneurs per year to 20 or 40 per cohort. That's our dream and our ambition there and we believe this is surely needed right now in our community in this time of where we need to focus on recovery.
 And then, you know, finally, I just want to mention that who do we work for, right? When we say to unleash the creative and economic potential of El Paso, it means to, you know, creative and economic potential resides in people. This is the group that won the first El Paso Diaz de Muertos competition, a pitch competition that was e-dealer direct.
 And we have many other stories of very creative, driven individuals, men and women within our community that are working in very diverse fields. And our goal is to have an open door to be a resource for them. And with that, next slide. Thank you.
 I just want to thank you again. I'm open to any questions, of course. And I thank you again to all of you for your support of our work. And we're looking forward to continue working with the city. We're grateful for the support that the city has provided to us. And as such, we are aligned with the economic development objectives of the city and of our county of El Paso.
 Thank you, Dr. Vela. And with that, I appreciate the presentation. We have Representative Schwartzbaum. Dr. Vela, how are you, sir? Hello. Wonderful presentation. It's really, really refreshing to sort of see the direction with Pioneers 21, especially kind of coming from the hub of Unum Innovation and really coming up with a sort of
 laser focus in terms of how to best align with the City and what we have been talking about in terms of our COVID response. How can we help
 you know, to not try to attract businesses from the outside, but how can we grow those El Paso businesses from within? Not about trying to bring in Microsoft, but growing the next Microsoft here from El Paso. And what we've been talking about for months now is how do we go and help those small businesses? How do we go and help them be the best business that they can be? Grow, understand, learn technology, understand innovation,
 and really grow from the inside. And so it's really great to sort of see your direction, um, and see the direction of pioneers 21 that, um, is absolutely necessary. Um, and integral, you know, not just,
 from the work that you're doing within technology and innovation, but with the work that we need to be doing as a community as a whole in terms of our COVID economic development and our business recovery. And I see what Pioneers 21 doing as being spot on
 completely aligned with the direction of this council, with the direction of our economic development department in terms of how do we go and provide that relief and how do we offer that training and business development for those entrepreneurs, for our small businesses in our community. And it really seems that with the sort of finesse and direction that you guys are looking at there at Pioneers 21, it's really locked on.
 I'm kind of curious, how has sort of COVID affected your vision for Pioneers 21? So I think, first, thank you, Representative, for your words, your very kind words, and for your support in this adventure. So...
 COVID had made us realize that our work is more important than it's ever been in terms of creating new opportunities to do business, but also to create new capacity in existing businesses. I think we were already detecting an opportunity to work. As I like to describe it, sometimes we focus a lot on the economy that doesn't exist.
 And I think that's really important, right? To be thinking about new, as you said, the next Microsoft, the next high-tech company. But we also need to bring new capabilities to existing businesses, whether they are a web company, a beauty shop, a restaurant, or a grower of corn.
 you know, somewhere, right? So that broadening has been part of, I think, the message that we've gotten from this. The other one is how do we scale, right? So I think initially, as many of our organizations, we moved our programming to try to replicate what we did live to do it virtually like this.
 We realize that that's okay, but let's use this opportunity to actually rethink the way we do everything so that coming out of COVID, we can have more impact. So that's made us, I think that was another important effect to completely rethink in particular the way we do coaching and mentoring in a way that we can just have more impact. I think that's really great. And I know that the sort of,
 Elephant in the room, if you will, is down the horizon. This is a year for the renewal for your contract. And I'm kind of curious because, you know, I've seen Pioneers 21 firsthand, whether it was at the Mexico U.S. Sister Cities Summit, whether it was at South by Southwest as part of that delegation. You're absolutely correct.
 it's absolutely imperative when we talk about what the mayor, you know, wants to do with these familiarization tours. It's important to bring those businesses here, but it's just as important to be at those places of opportunity and those intersections of opportunity exchange. And South by Southwest, where you have not just hundreds of new, not thousands of new businesses that are there looking for investors, it's also countries, regions, and cities.
 that are there looking to invest in the next big place, looking to invest in the next big opportunity. And there is no other sort of story that is as misunderstood and untold as the story of the Paso del Norte borderplex, right? Our beautiful tri-state border region.
 And you're, you know, not from here, but you've made this your home and you truly understand the complexities and the opportunities that exist here on the border. And so my question is, again, sort of how can we work together and what kind of support do you need from the city moving forward to what I think is a very reasonable opportunity?
 a very doable sort of vision for the future and one that is spot on and absolutely focused towards the needs of this community in terms of small business development and small business expansion and information and education.
 Thank you, Representative. So, we've started a conversation with the economic development staff about, as you say, what's next for Pioneers 21 in terms of city support. I think we are working right now, part of this last vision that I showed, and it's hard to grasp without seeing it in terms of its potential.
 is to have a new value proposition that we can bring to council, to staff, or that shows how we are part of the response of the city, not just now, but in terms of what you describe as
 One part of our strategy has been to attract businesses. There is another fundamental strategy which is to grow businesses and entrepreneurs locally and connect them to the world. So I think when we reach out to each of your offices to arrange meetings with each of you and with you, Mr. Mayor, we look forward to sharing with you our plans as we move forward.
 with the conversations to discuss the future of Families 21 and our relationship with the city. We consider ourselves a common good, a public good for the community. We're open to everyone.
 Sometimes people come with crazy ideas and our job is to tell them, well, you know, maybe you need to think about this a little bit more. But that's at the core of who we are, right? It's really to provide a service to the community when it comes to doing businesses. Yes.
 Yeah. And I mean, I think it's absolutely important right now when we talk about, you know, businesses future proofing, looking at evolving. When we talk about workforce development, workforce education, these are tools that Pioneer 21 is very specially and uniquely attuned to really provide to this community and to provide to the business community as well. So I really think there is tremendous value opportunity that y'all bring together.
 And the city be remiss not to continue this this relationship moving forward. So thank you again Dr. Vela for all the work that you and your staff do over there as well as the board. Thank you. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Representative Shortspine Mayor if it's OK I Jessica Herrera with Economic Development I just had a few words
 We are indeed working, and thank you, Carlos, for your presentation. I could tell you that from day one, at the onset of the pandemic, Carlos and his team have been working very closely with us. We are considering them a very valuable partner towards this economic response and recovery effort.
 We are having those conversations now, and we look forward to, you know, continuing to strengthen that partnership. But they do play a valuable role in the community, and not just here in El Paso, but in Ciudad Juarez. Thank you, Mrs. Decker. Thank you. Dr. Vela, thank you. And I was going to say that I know that you've been working close with...
 and her team and I get to meet with them on a weekly basis and talk about the things that they're working with. So I look forward to seeing your presentation as we move forward. I can tell you that I had the honor of being a guest speaker there in 2016 and I thank you all for the invitation.
 And I look forward to continue to work with you all. But also, like I said, as you continue to work with our economic development team, as they look forward to moving our city forward in the year, I know that Mrs. Ed has been working with you all and looking forward to continuing to work with you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you all for your vision. I think every city that has an innovation economy has the city invests in it. I don't see these kind of expenditures as subsidies, but as actually investment in innovation and infrastructure for innovation. So thank you. Thank you all for your support. Thank you. You have a wonderful day or evening now. But with that, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor. We now return to page nine
 to the regular agenda, operational focus updates. The next item is number 31 and this is a budget update. Good evening, here's Nicole. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Nicole Cody, Office of Management and Budget. Hold on. Today we're going to be kicking off our Chime In survey. As part of the integrated budget process, our Chime In survey has become a critical element in our customer input.
 Here you'll find our FY 2022 budget process. These are the key dates. The chime in survey is now available on our city website, as well as you can see it will be open through April 26. So last year our top priorities were streets, public safety, and community health.
 Continue to engage our customers by increasing our survey participation. We did see a drop last year, but we are prepared to really increase that participation this year. We have included over the past two years, we've added both zip code. And then now this year, we will be adding council districts.
 So there will be an opportunity for each of the survey respondents to fill out their associated council district. We're also looking at and will be including the QR code as a way of ensuring more people are available to go ahead and take our survey. So the QR code will be available for our Chime In survey as well.
 And we have also as part of the chairman process last year, we did shorten the survey overall. We also have started to include social media polls on both Facebook and Twitter, and we will continue those this year. We did expand our on-site locations last year to help engage the citizens.
 We will be looking at alternatives as also different ways that we would be able to continue to do that to ensure we're increasing our overall participation. We did have focus groups last year as you all know and we will be continuing those focus groups again this year in June. Here's some examples of the social media poll questions that we will be asking people through our Facebook and Twitter websites over the next couple months.
 So please, we always appreciate your participation in letting your constituents know through both the newsletter and your community meetings to please chime in and join us in is part of the survey and letting us know what your priorities are for FY 2022.
 And then I'm just going to end with the budget process timeline and just remind you that this is a key part of March, are those chime in surveys. And then we will be also releasing towards the end of the month, of course, the council budget request kickoff. Thank you all very much for your time, and please chime in.
 Thank you very much for your presentation. There we have no questions. Next item is prime. Yes sir. Item number 32 is presentation and discussion regarding an infill policies cross-functional team. Good afternoon. Mayor and Council Alex Sutton with Capital Improvement Department. If IT could please bring up the presentation. Good evening. Good evening. While IT is bringing or setting up this presentation. So just to give a high level overview so.
 This cross-functional team is an implementation strategy that we're currently using for the Eastside Master Plan. And so as we start to bring forward additional plans and studies as part of the 2020 capital plan, we want to use this framework to assist in the implementation. IT, this is the correct presentation. If you can just put it in the full presentation mode.
 All right, thank you. So as I mentioned, so this is part of our strategic plan, this particular cross-functional team. So what we're proposing to do is on the right, note that infill growth strategies is one of the items listed within our strategic plan and that through infill development we're going to be looking at very specific target areas. And as was previously presented to the Council,
 the 2020 capital plan set aside funds for various studies and corridor plans throughout the city. And we're looking to start with our downtown uptown update to our small area plan for the downtown and uptown as well as looking at the Alameda corridor. And so all of these efforts are tied towards helping to facilitate infill development throughout the city. Next slide please.
 And so the purpose of this cross-functional team will be to look at various policies and ordinance changes related to infill development. So some of the things that we're going to be looking at, I'll go over in the following slides, are things like land use strategies, looking at transit-oriented development to help with some of the issues that Ellen and her team were running into with some metro, as well as looking at adaptive reuse by looking at our building code.
 And then also looking to tie in some additional plans and studies that have already previously been done. So also thinking about how we can tie in the sale of property through the PSB as part of our infill strategies, as well as incorporating the recommendations from the Eastside Master Plan, our Comprehensive Plan, and our Open Space Plan. All of these documents feeding into the overall strategies that are laid out within the strategic plan.
 And so the initial role of the cross-functional team that will be composed of various stakeholders, including staff and some of the council members, will be to review the various policies related to our downtown-uptown plan and our Alameda corridor plan. And that as additional studies get completed and get kicked off, that we'll be bringing forward those strategies also to this team.
 With the outcome being that we'll have new policies and code language in that addressing the city's outward growth and incentivizing infill development. Next slide, please.
 And so it's really important to note that with the acceptance of the findings of the Eastside Master Plan, that infill development is the natural next step in the implementation of that document. And so the Eastside Master Plan again was seen on growth management in and around the city. And so if we imagine that the Eastside Master Plan and the growth management policies are the belt tightening around the city's periphery.
 that we would also need to be looking at info development strategies to be more permissive in certain areas of the city. So that way we can allow for growth to continue and redevelopment to occur in and around the city.
 And so one of the challenges that we've had is that up until this point, we really haven't managed our outward growth. And so our infill development has suffered as a consequence of that. And so this is really what we're looking to do is that next step is to promote infill development through growth management. And so those two things are interlinked. Next slide, please.
 And so, as we found in the Eastside Master Plan, a lot of our new growth and development in the city takes place along the fringes. That's not new information. But one of the things that we did find out with the Eastside Master Plan was that these areas lack services and lack connectivity, which is why we have some of the traffic congestion issues. Then our cost of service is a lot more expensive in these areas because we don't have those facilities there right now.
 And so as part of our strategies for infill development, we want to look at the areas of the city where we're currently serving them through our different facilities that we already have and that have good access to different amenities such as parks or also just better connectivity for transit. Next slide, please.
 And so some of the issues that we know that exists that hinder infill development that we really want to look at through this cross functional team are things related to land use. So the types of uses that are permitted, the density and dimensional standards. So that can be everything from setbacks and use permits that come forward to Council for approval.
 Also looking at incentives and incentives in the broadest way possible, not just financial incentives, but also land use incentives. And then also our building code. So how can our building code be transformed so that way it's not just permitting new construction, but also allows for using existing buildings and making that process easier to get approvals. Next slide, please.
 And so right now with our current incentives policies, and again, we're talking about all types of incentives, not just the financial incentives that economic development has, but also our land use incentives. Right now, the policies are very broad. We see, for example, with our info policy that pretty much the entire city is eligible for it. And what we know to be best practice is that we really want these incentives to be targeted so that way they bring about the results that we wanna see
 help achieve very area specific goals. And so in some instances, the requirements and the guidelines are too flexible and then other instances they're too rigid sometimes they don't permit the types of things that we say that we want to see.
 And then the last issue that we have is that sometimes our design standards aren't tied to a very specific goal. And so if we, for example, want to improve transit ridership, our design standards should be with that in mind, as opposed to just we want things to look attractive. Being attractive is good, but it should be part of this overarching goal that helps to achieve these very specific and strategic city policies. Next slide, please.
 And so the way that we're proposing to address this problem is by looking at these different issues, such as land use, trying to incorporate more of the transit oriented development, looking at our zoning regulations and our building code, and then finally our incentives. Next slide please. And so with land use, we're looking to encourage a mixture of uses again because we want to make our existing neighborhoods in the city a lot more attractive and
 Open up opportunities for new business. And so we need to look for strategies as to how we allow for a mixture of uses. Also want to get these very area specific incentives and so recognizing the fact that the types of incentives that will work for downtown uptown may not work for the Alameda corridor. And so really being focused and intentional about the incentive policies that we have. Next slide, please.
 And then again, looking at transit oriented development. So trying to take these these corridors that up at the top of the slide that you can imagine some of our quarters look like this right now it's a very auto dominant type of development pattern.
 How can we, through land use strategies, through capital investment, through incentives, investing in infrastructure and those types of things, how can we transform those corridors to something that's a lot more attractive and that's something that we're looking at through our high priority corridor cross-functional team? Next slide, please.
 And then also looking at zoning regulations. And so these are some of just the ones that we know to be problematic. This is by no means exhaustive, but we know that we need to look at, again, our density and dimensional standards or legal non-conformance situations, the uses that we permit, and then parking regulations. Because if we wanna see higher densities, then we may need to relax our parking requirements in order to facilitate that type of development. Next slide, please.
 And so what we're proposing to do is that we would want to take our internal stakeholders that are going to be reviewing these plans and policies just through our departments and incorporate the representatives from districts one, two, four and eight. So the other districts that weren't part of the Eastside policies cross-functional team to help guide and to provide feedback and to do a deep dive into these different policies in support of these efforts.
 looking to partner also with some outside organizations as well. So as part of the downtown uptown plan, we brought in the DMD as a partner, as well as our tourist five board to help support that effort, not only, you know, in terms of reviewing the documents, but also financial partners as well. And so we wanna make this a very collective cohesive effort that involves a lot of different stakeholders. Next slide, please.
 And so what we're going to be doing is we're going to be kicking off some of these corridor plan efforts here in the upcoming month. We're going to be looking at starting with our Alameda corridor plan as well as our downtown uptown plan. And then moving into the next fiscal year, we'd be looking at the Dyer corridor as well as Five Points. Next slide please. And so just to give you an idea in terms of schedule,
 So as I mentioned, we're looking at Alameda being kicked off this month with adoption in spring of 2022. And then starting again with the Downtown Uptown Plan in the spring, we're tentatively looking at the end of this month for kicking off the Downtown Uptown Plan with adoption in summer of next year. And that in the following fiscal year, we'd be looking to start the Dyer Corridor and the Five Points Area Plan as we complete and wrap up these initial studies. Next slide, please.
 And so again, just to give you an idea of what we're going to be looking to do is incorporate some of the council members into this cross-functional team to provide recommendations on the different items that you see here to be briefed on those issues. So that way, as we start to bring these plans forward for implementation, there's a very in-depth understanding of some of the issues and the policies that we're going to be recommending to help implement these plans. I believe that's my last slide. If you can go to the next slide.
 And so, yes, I'd be happy to answer any questions you have, if there are any about this cross-functional team. Thank you very much, sir, for your presentation. There is no questions with that. Oh, yeah, there is. I'm sorry. I did not see Representative Schwartzbein. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Offen, again, for a great presentation. I think that this.
 This group alongside the Eastside Master Plan Working Group, I think, is going to be a really great complement working with council and working with staff and these cross-functional teams. Very excited about this. Had a couple questions. You can help me understand, I guess, a little bit. What are some of the ways that the city currently is encouraging mixed-use development when working with developers? Sure.
 So, you know, in terms of the ways that we that we work with developers is that we obviously have development standards as well as zoning regulations that permit the mixture of uses. I think that one of the challenges of that is that we do not permit those things typically by right. And so that acts to discourage developers from doing that because if they know that they have to go through a discretionary approval process.
 that being coming to Council for that approval. Sometimes people will shy away from those types of projects because they want certainty in their development. I guess this is kind of a question, thinking about it, when we're studying land use best practices and looking at the consistency across the board strategies and development plans, I guess, is staff as part of this looking, is being prepared
 for input to study ordinance changes so that the intent of our different plans is better represented by actual developments being proposed yes exactly so um you know it's not just an effort of staff so part of the funds that that city council did approve as part of the 2020 capital plan set aside funds to bring on consultants to help us with it and so uh we do have
 a combination of staff as well as our consultants to help us to identify what those policies are. But to your point, I think what we want to be able to do is we want to be able to find out from a very data driven way, what are the policies that need to be changed in order to help support these efforts and the way that we can do that. And one of the ways that we're proposing to do that is to do
 you know things like market assessments to help figure out for example what is the demand for you know multi-family construction in a particular area of the city what should the rents be just at a very practical level so that way any type of recommendations that we're bringing forward are not just best practices taken from other cities but it's very reflective of what the el paso market is and what's realistic for our community
 Yeah, and then I saw on slide three, and in thinking about it, you know, I think infill is absolutely important.
 I know that I can see the smile on Representative Inello's face that she agrees wholeheartedly that infill development is important and a necessary conceptual and policy focus for our community and for this council as a whole. I can see that smile on her face so clearly right now. So I am wondering, part of it on slide three also talks about strategies and plans for
 for PSB land use based upon our different comprehensive plans, our open space plan. So I know that we saw we're kicking off with the Dyer plan and looking at the downtown uptown plan. So how do you see that sort of conversation? Because I think it's as important to look not just at the infill, but also, you know, how we're looking at those lands on the outskirts of our city.
 I'm curious to sort of see how you see that sort of fitting into this cross-functional team moving forward. No, certainly. So, I mean, I think with our Eastside Policies cross-functional team, they're definitely looking at that growth management aspect, and so I think that part of growth management
 is focusing on that outward growth. And so I think that any type of policy that we bring forward, the PSB is certainly going to have to be a partner in that because if we continue to sell land and making it available for developers to build the single family housing or any type of development for that matter,
 It puts our existing neighborhoods at a competitive disadvantage. And so I think that we'll just need to be very coordinated in terms of the policies that we bring forward. So that way, the left hand knows what the right is doing and vice versa.
 Yeah, because I think that's an important part to understand that with this infill cross-functional team as well. They have some input into that too. I'm very excited about it. I actually went and found – you'll love this. Look at this. This is an old, very old document. It doesn't show up. This is a transit-oriented development incentive policy from May –
 16th, 2017. So something that's been a big interest of mine. Very excited to sort of see this come along as well. I'm hoping to and looking forward to those questions relating to transit and development as well, including how to best utilize our Brio lines and other mass transit too. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Thank you, Mayor Schwarzbein. Alex. Representative Schwarzbein. Representative Hernandez, please.
 Hey hey Alex I just wanted to say thank you. I've really enjoyed the CFT meetings that we've been hosting with my colleagues in the Eastside group. Really if it all really ties in it's just another piece of the puzzle and how to make sure that everything is integrated. I do want to say that your your beard looks really nice. And one thing that I want to incorporate into some of our policies and plans
 Um, is looking at how our infill development plan, um, can incorporate some of our priorities for housing. Um, and also, um, you know, there's some there's pods throughout the city that we're really targeting. And so I'm curious how we can integrate that.
 And I apologize, Mayor, for not messaging, but I just wanted to mention that really quickly because this is all part of the plan and so we can't forget how community development factors into the work that we're doing. But at any rate, thank you for the presentation. Absolutely. Thank you, Representative Bendis. Oh, I'm sorry, Mayor. If I can just, I just do want you to know that part of the development of,
 both the priority study areas as well as the study area boundaries, it was being mindful of the housing strategy. We wanted to make sure that we include those areas because a lot of work has already been done to say that these are areas that are ripe for new housing and housing for a vulnerable population. And so this can be imagined as an implementation strategy related to our housing strategy. And so it was very intentional and we're looking to incorporate those findings.
 Thank you very much for that. Ms. Prine, I know we have a public comment. Yes, sir, we have Mr. Tom Deloy that's signed up to speak on this item. Mr. Deloy, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Council, good evening, and Mayor, good evening. Tom Deloy with the Housing Authority. So excited to join the meeting tonight. Can you all hear me, yes? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Okay, so I share in your enthusiasm and glad this is on the agenda.
 I wanted to hear specifically the latter comments of Mr. Hoffman that housing is part of this work that's about to be enthusiastically supported, not only by council, but by staff. And so thank you, Mr. Hoffman. That was a great presentation. The Housing Authority, that's what we do.
 So we look forward to many successes with the city on infill development, including housing, where it fits, where it makes sense. But we are advocates for what you're speaking of tonight and will continue to be so. And thanks for the opportunity to provide these few remarks. Thank you, sir. Ms. Pryne. Thank you. Yes, sir. The next three items are first reading of ordinances. These are items 33 to 35. And after that, can we do item 52, please, Ms. Pryne? Yes, sir. Thank you very much.
 Is there a motion on the first reading? I move to approve the first reading. I have a question. Is item 34, is there a way to get a presentation on this one or to take it out? Yes, I second that. Do we need to remove it from the first reading? Only if you would like to vote on it separately. This is a first reading. There will be an additional presentation on the public hearing, which will be held on March 16th.
 Yeah, I'd like a presentation for item 34 today, if possible. I think, I think Rep. Lozargo would like that as well. Yes, I would as well, because I'd like to make a Yeah, I think on the work session yesterday, we were told that they would do a presentation on item 34. Can we move on the other ordinances and then do the presentation? Thank you. Yes, we'll do that. So we have, we'll remove item 34 and do, um,
 33 and 35, is that correct Ms. Paine? Yes, Mayor. So there is a motion and a second to introduce items 33 and 35. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor, would you like to go to 34 or 52? We can do 34 and then 52 please. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is Hannah Williams again with Streets and Maintenance. Oh, awesome, IT has it. Good evening, Ms. Williams. So this is the first reading of an ordinance amending Title 1244-280, which is restrictions on parking in residential parking districts and it,
 falls in line with strategic plan goal seven, specifically 7.3. Next slide, please. Just some brief city council history. In 2012, city council approved an ordinance to revise provisions regarding the issuance of permits. And in 2015, city council approved an ordinance amending the definition of a residential property to include apartment complexes with five or more dwelling units in a designated historical district.
 Next slide, please. So the purpose of this amendment currently in 1244-280, there isn't a process to amend an existing residential parking district. And what that means is there's a process and policy in place to create a residential parking district and to dissolve one, but not to amend the boundaries or the current parking restrictions.
 So this would enable us to amend parking restrictions and the boundaries kind of following the same process that we use to create and dissolve an existing residential district.
 And also in line with that, we would need to resolve, excuse me, we would need a resolution to amend Schedule C of the budget resolution to include a fee for this modification application. Next slide, please. So the proposed section would have the following subsections. The first is the right to apply, and that applies for all.
 the ability to modify a parking restriction. So that's owners of property within an existing residential parking district or to modify the boundaries. And that is for an owner of property within the 1000 within 1000 feet of an existing residential parking district. There is an application and a fee and with the application we are requesting
 that 75% of the impacted owners sign the application. It'll be a petition that's with the application and submit the fee prior to city staff investing in conducting studies and determining the need for those modifications. So once we get the completed application with all of the signatures,
 and we ensure that the certificate of completion that is completed at the bottom of the application, the city traffic engineer will evaluate. And that evaluation includes analyzing all of the signatures and verifying that everybody that's signed is in agreement with what's being proposed, whether it's extending the boundaries of an existing residential parking district or if it's changing the existing parking restrictions. So, yeah.
 Once we get all of that in order and it is the city traffic engineers recommendation to proceed, then we would bring it to city council for approval to do so. And we do have to bring it to city council because it is in our code listed as a schedule. And the appeal process is the same. It is the applicant has 15 calendar days.
 What is new is this one year waiting period. And this is here because the legwork will be done at the beginning. So it's a one year waiting period stating that the City Traffic Engineer will not accept any applications to modify any residential parking district restrictions or boundaries that are submitted within one year of a denial or approval.
 And once again, this just follows up with the verification of the application and all of the signatures. And the sixth subsection of the proposed new section is new to this entire ordinance. And that is the health and safety related modifications which states that the city traffic engineer is authorized to modify any RPD at any time if it's warranted. Next slide please.
 And this is the proposed Schedule C budget resolution, and this is adding in the line item for that fee, which is $30 for restriction or boundary modification. Next slide, please. And this is the same thing that I presented with the requested council action per legal. Next slide, please.
 And this is the same for the requested action for the budget resolution. That budget resolution will be posted for the next City Council. And that is because it's just a resolution and it would need to be approved if the ordinance amendment is approved. Next slide please. But that concludes the presentation. Thank you very much, Williams, for your presentation. We have Representative DeSarga.
 Yes. Thank you, Hannah, for your presentation. If you could go back to page four, I believe it is. Representative Lizaga, before you proceed with any more questions, I'd like to remind the council that this item is posted for a public hearing on March 16th. Okay. So I would highly discourage council from having a discussion about this because the public has been notified that the public hearing will take place on the 16th.
 Okay. Thank you for that, Ms. Niemann. So with that, we move to an approval on the item. Mayor, I put out a request, sir, to speak. Pardon me? Can we get individually briefed about this item then before the next council meeting? You can have a briefing. You can look at the backup, and I'm sure you can call them, and they'll be more than glad to brief you on it, Representative Schwartzman. If it's possible to get briefed, that would be great.
 Yes sir. Yes we can do that. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. With that do we have a motion for approval. DIRECTOR MACK. Should I Mayor Margo and Miss Niemann I wanted to make an amendment. So should I withhold that until the public hearing on this. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yeah we can't change a public public. It's only a public reading right now so. DIRECTOR MACK. Yes. Okay. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. You can do that on any briefing. DIRECTOR MACK. Okay thank you.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Representative Lizardo if you submit that we can assist you with the amendment at the public hearing. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. Thank you very much Ms. Neiman. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Thank you very much. And with that do I have a motion. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Excuse me Mayor. I did have a question for Rep. Lizardo. I just wanted to ask did you want to be briefed as well
 I think council as a whole should be brief. Yeah you should brief all of us. Okay well we can our office will coordinate meetings prior to a public hearing. Thank you. Yes please that would be great. Appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you Hannah. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of item number 34 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes.
 Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 52. This is on page 16.
 Item 52 is discussion and action on a resolution that the City of El Paso is proud to support the President of the United States establishing the Kastner Range National Monument in order to preserve a highly important area within our region of environmental, historic, scientific, cultural and scenic value for current and future generations. Mayor, may I be recognized?
 Yes, ma'am. I know we talked about this yesterday. Again, this is just supporting our open space groups. I thank Representative Molinar and Schwarzbein for signing on this. I know that, Representative Molinar, you have a lot of experience with the Save Our Mountains group, so I'd love to let you speak a little bit about it. But, again, this is just kind of updating the 2016 resolution that we had
 um to encourage the new administration to to preserve this really important space in our community thank you for that and um ruptured millinard would you like to speak
 Yes, Mayor. Thank you very much. And I'd also like to echo what Representative Anello said. Thank you very much, Representative Anello, Representative Schwartzbein. This has been a long time coming for the community of El Paso and to a much greater extent to the entire region of the Southwest. As you know, we tried in 2016 to get President Obama to make an executive decision on this, but we came this short.
 But either way, we're still on track. We haven't lost sight. We haven't lost vision. I would recommend to my colleagues on this board, please, I would ask that you assist us in passing this resolution. And a great shout out to everybody that's been working on this behind the scenes for quite so many years. Thank you.
 And thank you for that. And I tell you that back in 2016 we did work on it with Congressman O'Rourke and we actually had a presentation out at Castle Range which I think Representative Mullenar at the time you were there
 So it's something that's been in the forefront of our community and it's something that's very important not only to Northeast but to the city of El Paso. And as we all know, Dr. Teschner, who has the passion and has had the passion for this since we all can remember. So I look forward to continuing the work and moving this forward. Like I said, we had great leadership and support from Congressman O'Rourke at the time. And I appreciate that. And with that,
 I know I have Representative Schwartzman would like to speak. Just very briefly, I just want to thank against Representative Anello and Representative Molinar for bringing this item up. You know, Dr. Teschner and so many people have had here, and I think it's also important to understand too that this item is not just something that is a fringe idea
 to look at or something that isn't sort of mainstream. Developing and encouraging eco-tourism strategy and eco-tourism and preservation of open spaces is built into our strategic plan that this council or councils before this council have ratified and developed working with our city staff.
 So our strategic plan calls for promotion of open spaces and developing an ecotourism strategy. And the preservation of Kastner Range is a very important step towards that. And it's also keeping the promise from so many different El Pasoans, from so many different generations who see the value in protecting our beautiful open spaces and natural places as well. So again, strongly encouraged by...
 to support this as well. I want to thank Representative Vanello and Representative Molyneux for bringing it up and a big shout out to Dr. Teschner as well. Thank you. And also I look forward to working with Congresswoman Escobar as this will need her assistance and her help to be able to move this forward. And so thank you all for putting it on the agenda. And I look forward to, again, working with our federal government to get this passed. Mayor, we do have public comment on this item.
 Please. Yes, sir. We have Ms. Marilyn Guida who signed up to speak. Ms. Guida, star six, please. Good evening. Hello. Good evening. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Oh, great. Mayor and council members, good evening. I've been waiting for this all day. So, yes, it's wonderful to have the support of Representatives Inelo Molinar and Sparsbein, and we do urge you to ask the President of the United States, through the right procedures, to utilize his authority under the 1906 Antiquities Act to establish Kessner Range National Monument.
 I know you're well aware of the long-term support of the El Paso community for establishing this national monument.
 All of the important values that Kastner Range brings to El Paso and this region are eloquently described in your resolution. I was among the 35,000 plus El Pasoans who supported the Kastner Range National Monument effort from 2015 to 2020. And there was even an effort in 2006, even before I moved here, the El Paso City Council to preserve Kastner Range as open space. And perhaps there were even earlier efforts.
 El Pasoans are persistent. Perhaps this time we will succeed. Thank you all for your thoughtful consideration of this issue. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you. Do we have a motion? Not yet. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second. To approve item number 52 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein.
 representative anello hi hernandez here and i molina hi salcido rodriguez yes rivera yes and the motion passes unanimously we now return to page 11 item number 36 this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-0207 security guard services airport
 to Universal Protection Service LP, DBA Allied Universal Security Services. Move to approve. Second. Do we have any public comment? No, sir. We have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 36. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthvine. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 37. This is an introduction and public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas Water and Sewer Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2021 in City of El Paso, Texas Water and Sewer Revenue Refunding Bonds Taxable Series 2021A. Motion to approve.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 37. There is no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. And that motion passes unanimously. The next two items are related, Mayor. I'm not sure if they can be taken together.
 I think they can with the presentation that I saw when it was done. I think they probably should be taken together. Yes, sir. Item 38 is a public hearing and an introduction of an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas Municipal Drainage Utility System Revenue Refunding Bonds, taxable series 2021. Item 39 is an introduction and public hearing of an ordinance.
 authorizing the issuance of city of el paso texas municipal drainage utility system revenue refunding bonds series 2021a you have to approve second the motion is second there is a motion and a second to approve items 38 and 39 on that motion mayor pro tem shorts by hi representative anello hernandez yes molinar hi salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera
 Yes. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 40. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the city of El Paso to VTRE Development LLC for the property at the intersection of Desert Boulevard and Paseo del Norte. Move to approve. Second. Do we have any public comment?
 Yes, sir. We do have one member of the public that signed up to speak. It's Mr. Rick Bonhart. Good evening, sir. Star 6 to unmute your telephone. Good evening, sir. Can you hear me? Yes, sir.
 Great. Thank you for letting me speak. I wish to oppose this sale as currently structured. Just because it's legal doesn't make it right or even smart. True, you can sell property in a TERS without bidding, but that will not ensure the people of El Paso get the best deal.
 Best practices for selling public property is basically an open, transparent, and public auction to ensure we get the highest price. As public servants bearing the responsibility of a fiduciary, you should be very uncomfortable proceeding so far out of the norm.
 As to this deal, $18.6 million just covers the principal you owe to the Public Service Board for the 2,313 acres that were traded to secure this parcel. This does not even begin to cover the cost of interest on the note, even considering taxes on the base value. So you are underwater on this deal as a layman would say.
 Further, this parcel under TERS 10 is entitled to 100% incremental rebate for 30 years. The city and citizens will be deriving zero economic benefit from the incremental increase in property value.
 Look no further when wondering why the residential property owners carry the burden. This is the type of economic policy giving away commercial tax dollars, and it's counterproductive. And in an earlier presentation, you saw where people were talking about when to apply incentives to infield developments that need incentives.
 TURs 10, 10A, and 13 were all about the Great Wolf Lodge deal. That deal is dead. These three TURs should be terminated, and the real economic benefit from organic growth allowed to occur. TURs 10 is located in some of the wealthiest and fastest-growing area of town. Without Great Wolf, the previously-
 described public benefit is no more. Why continue to lose precious tax dollars, stimulate in an area that really does not need stimulation? Please, run, don't walk from this deal. It's not a good deal for El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bonar. And one of the things I do wanna make a comment on that I've been working with the department with Mrs. Edda, Colonel Weston,
 And I can tell you that it is a really good deal for our community. And there is no tax incentives to the buying the property. As a matter of fact, they're paying $600,000 to put a light there that is well needed. And that would be paying for it. They'll be paying 100% of their closing costs. And even though we have the ability to.
 have any incentives. There will be no incentives to this company that's coming to our community. So it's really a great, great opportunity for El Paso and the citizens. And when you talk about it, I said, it's a smart deal. I can tell you that I've looked at it. I've dealt with Colonel Weston and Mrs. Zeta.
 and Mr. Garcia, and it's an incredible, great opportunity for El Paso, and it's a great investment for El Paso without giving up any incentives, not giving up any taxes or anything. So I think when you see the announcement, you'll see that...
 the economic development team and your elected officials did have the support of, they did have the back of the taxpayers. So, but I thank you because it is a serious concern and those were questions that we've had asked and we've had asked quite often. And I think this hopefully will answer some of your concerns. With that, I have Representative Schwartzwein. Yeah, I was curious. I don't know if
 Um, staff can address the concern about the TURs and the sort of increment, um, going back into the TURs as opposed to going back into the taxpayers funds. I know that that was something that I've talked to staff about. I just wanted to clarify that as it relates towards the TURs and where that increment and where the taxes from this property would be going.
 Yes, sir. Eddie Garcia with Economic Development for the Record. So, yes, so right now the way the TURs is set up, 100% of the incremental property taxes will go into the TURs. However, the staff will be working towards removing that piece of property from the TURs or taking it out of the boundary of the TURs so that you start seeing that coming back into the city.
 You know, for now, until we go to closing, which could potentially last about six months, the property is going to remain in the TURS so that we can finalize the sale of this property. But we will be coming back. We will be showing you some options with respect to the TURS so that you can review that and then vote on that appropriately.
 So, well, Mr. Garcia, can you iterate what I said about incentives and taxes and the company that's coming, which we're not at liberty to discuss at this moment. That means to our community?
 Yes, I mean, this is a huge impact for that area. We expect to see, you know, a huge investment, a significant amount of employees that are going to come to that area, a huge economic impact. Again, we're not doing any incentives. The city will be receiving the $18.6 million. And again, that is the appraised value of the property. That is what we appraise the property at.
 it is a current appraisal that we got in October of 2020. So the city is required to take no less than the fair market value for the property. So we're not losing any money in this case because we do have that appraised value.
 Again, you know, like you mentioned, Mayor, the city will not be paying any of the closing costs, which that's significant alone, right? 3% of $18.6 million, that's just the cost of the broker fees, right? And then you're talking about title insurance and an ELTA survey. I mean, easily that's over $600,000, right, that the city is going to save because we're not going to pay on any of the closing costs.
 Yes, definitely. I mean, this is going to be a huge impact for El Paso. But first, the first thing that we need to do is approve this contract for sale. And then the applicant will have six months potentially to inspect the property. And when they do, we'll go to closing. Right. So hopefully we can continue the process to move on to that second phase to go into closing so that that way we can make that announcement that you mentioned.
 Thank you. And like you said, we won't sell the property until our economic deal. It's all hand in hand. It'll be when we just won't sell the property and then the company wouldn't come here. That is part of our agreement here. Correct.
 I just had some little more. So I just want to be understood clearly Mr. Garcia. So the expectation here clearly that that none of the taxes that would be generated from this property are going to go into the TERS by the by the by the opening of this property.
 Well, the thing that we need to do, sir, is bring back the TURs for your all's review as a body so that you all can make that decision. Right. That's one of the things that we need to do. That's the way it's set up right now. It's still in a TUR, but we need to bring that back. Eddie, let me comment on it. Kerry Weston's senior deputy city manager. That's correct. We're going to bring that action back to council with that recommendation. So the recommendation will be.
 after we finalize the sale of the property to disband the turds around that property. That will be our recommendation. So that when this gets fully developed, this property, this parcel, whatever comes there, 100% of the taxes from this property go directly into the city? That's correct. Okay.
 Okay. I just want that to be understood clearly to the public and for everybody else that had that, that these tax funds will not be going to a tourist. They will, 100% of the taxes, City of El Paso taxes will be going back into the City of El Paso. That's correct. Pending Council's approval when we bring that back, that's correct. And again, no incentives to the company? None, no. Thank you.
 And with that, we have a motion and a second. Thank you both for that and thank you, Representative. Thank you. I'm sorry, we have Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. And as I had mentioned to Colonel Weston, I think it's very appropriate to do long-term planning on how the TURs could help with other businesses or anything in the pipeline within that TURs.
 And so I don't want to entirely exclude the that consideration if there is something that we can we can help through incentives and that's that's the intent of the TERS. There are line items for infrastructure and there are line items for economic development opportunities.
 And so I am supportive of that. So I don't want to take, you know, there to be this impression of a strong stance that 100% of the funds would go back to the TURs, which I would support. But if we could use some of those dollars to leverage and spur other economic activity in that respective boundaries within the TURs, then I would entertain that. So I want to make that open and fluid and flexible for city staff so that if there is an opportunity that arises,
 as a result of El Paso suddenly being one of the favored cities in Texas because of a reliability with energy, then let's capitalize on that and let's use some of our existing tools so that we can help retain or to attract new businesses.
 So I wanted just to throw that out there because I'm hearing a lot of firm positions, and I think that we need to be flexible given that there's other opportunities in the pipeline. Yeah, if I could comment on that, Representative. Again, Kerry Weston, Senior Deputy City Manager. The City Manager has already directed us to take a look at the TERSs that have been established in the Northwest area.
 And so what I'm specifically referring to is 10A, which is just the TERS boundary around that particular piece of property. I think what you're referring to, if I'm correct, is the larger TERS and reevaluating that and looking at that from an opportunity standpoint. So if that's what you're saying, that's correct. We're going to be making some recommendations based on that.
 for the direction of the city manager to evaluate that and take a look at that for the northwest part of El Paso. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Oh and Colonel Wishlan I guess this is where I always get confused. It's because the TURs. Let me just finish this quick thought. I don't know who's speaking but the TURs. DIRECTOR RIVERA- It's just really gone off the topic of conversation for the council like this is for the sale of property within the TURs. But I'm worried that you all are going way far past the posting language.
 Right. And like the TERS, the TERS, um, as it relates to TERS, um, and this property being within the TERS, I think it is, I think it is appropriate. Um, but thank you, Mrs. Neiman. Um, the other, I understand that 10 and the other, the other thing that they, they all combined. And so if that's not the case, then I've heard that multiple times. If that's not the case, then, then I'm mistaken. Um,
 But I understand that they've been consolidated and now it's one full TERS. And if that's not the case then, and this is where I get confused all the time. If that's the case. So just to keep it to Carla's point as well. So since we're just talking about the boundary around that property, we're referring to the TERS that actually encompasses the acreage of the property in question. That's what we'll be coming back for recommendation to remove that.
 And then we'll be evaluating the others. Right, which is strictly 10A, correct? That's correct, sir. Thank you. All right. If we can thank you, Ms. Neiman, and thank you, Representative Hernandez. And with that, I have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 40. Public comment has been taken on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzman. Yes. Representative Anello. Yes. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar.
 Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next two items are related to the same property. May I read them together, Mayor? Yes.
 Yes, ma'am. Item 41 is an ordinance changing the zoning at 1351 and 1355 Zaragoza Road from C1CSC Commercial Condition Special Contract to C4CSC Commercial Condition Special Contract. And item 42 is an ordinance releasing all conditions placed on the same property at 1351 and 1355 Zaragoza Road. Motion to approve. Second. Any public comment? No, sir.
 we have a motion in a second yes there is a motion in a second to approve items 41 and 42 on that motion mayor pro tem shortsvine yes representative anello hi hernandez yes molinar hi salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera yes
 Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 43. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special privileged license to EPCM Construction LLC to permit the construction, installation, maintenance, use, and repair of an arterial encroachment of the interior terrace doubling as an overhang marking the main public entrance to the museum over a portion of city right-of-way along Main Street adjacent to the property located at 201 West Main Drive.
 Motion to approve. Second. Can we get a presentation on this real quick from staff? Is there backup? Yes, sir. Thank you. Good evening. Armida Martinez with Planning and Inspections. This is a special privilege for the exterior terrace doubling as an overhang marking the main entrance for the proposed children's library. Next slide, please.
 I'm sorry, correction. This is Tracy Jerome, Deputy City Manager. It's the Children's Museum project, not the library. I'm sorry. Excuse me, my mistake. Yes, this is the El Paso. No worries. Thank you. Thank you. As stated previously, this is an encroachment. The area is approximately 283.57 square feet. The term will be for 15 years with one renewable term.
 The annual fee will be $1,060. Next slide please. This is the area we are referring to. The construction is proposed on Main. Next slide please. This is a rendering of the terrace. Next slide. And this is another rendering showing it a bit more in detail, not a real picture, more of a rendering or site plan.
 Next slide please. And of course this is the survey with the meets and bounds describing the area of encroachment. Next slide. That concludes the presentation. Thank you for the presentation. You're welcome, sir. We do have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 43. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. You know, Ms. Bryan,
 This is a fantastic project that's going to bring such a benefit to the quality of life of so many generations of El Paso. I can't wait to vote yes, and I am voting yes today. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Anello? I just want to make sure that Representative Schwarzman doesn't want to say anything else before I vote yes. Thank you. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye.
 And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 44. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title II, Section 2.64, Board of Trustees Membership, in order to allow for electronic voting by city employees to elect pension board trustees. Motion to approve. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve number 44. There is no public comment. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby.
 I just have one question for our city attorney. How is this affected by the governor's recent orders today? Can you please do me a favor Representative Shortsmyne when you please text me. Go ahead. Thank you. It's not affected Representative Shortsmyne. So they'll still have the ability to vote remotely.
 Yes, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. This will give the ability to the eligible employees to vote either electronically, by phone. They'll receive a message in their email and they can vote directly from that email, which will take them to the website. Okay, thank you, yes. Thank you. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez?
 yes rivera yes lisata aye and that motion passes unanimously the next item is number 47 this is discussion in action on the approval of a resolution to authorize the director of aviation to sign and submit a grant application and related documentation to the federal aviation administration and be designated the official representative of the city of el paso to act in connection with the application process
 for the airport improvement program project number three dash four eight dash zero zero seven seven dash zero four three dash twenty twenty one move to approve second second promotion in a second there is a motion in a second to approve item number 47 on that motion mayor pro tem shorts by yes representative anello hi hernandez yes hi salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera yes lizardo
 Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is 48. This is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional engineering services between the City of El Paso and Garver LLC for a project known as El Paso International Airport 5, node intersection remediation. Move to approve. Second. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item 48. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Yep. Thank you.
 Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizara? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. Next item is 49. This is discussion in action that the city manager is authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and the Combs Village LLC.
 RONALD PECKER. Mayor, Council Good Evening. This is Ralph Arellano Economic Development City of El Paso IT. If I could please have the presentation for item number 49. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Rolf will take us there. RONALD PECKER. Yes sir. It's my duty. IT presentation for item number 49. That's it right there. Thank you.
 So, Mayor, Council, this is an item. This is a basically a request to approve a chapter three to infill incentive agreement between the city of El Paso and McCombs Village LLC. And so the applicant McCombs Village LLC is proposing investing minimum of $4.2 million to construct a 45,000 square foot residential development on what is currently vacant land in northeast El Paso at 9787 McCombs Street 79924.
 And so the complex will be an upscale development designed for professionals and families, and all units will provide two to three bedrooms and that'll be a total of 40 units distributed across five buildings on the property. And again, additional features that this will include a park, which will be a potting park but is now a green space that will double as a dog park as well. Next slide please.
 And so there's just a few shots from the sky to give you a sense of where the property is on the far left. As you can see, this is in the north side of town, what's called the Northeast right now. In the middle, you can see that the property is located right on Macomb Street. This is about a mile just south of Woodrow being actually about half a mile south of Woodrow being
 And then on the right side is a closer image, which gives you a more clear sense of what the property looks like right now. As you can see, it's totally vacant and it is distributed in a sort of an L shape with two deposit points, one being on McComb Street and the other one right on Manila Drive.
 Next slide, please. So those are some shots from the air. This is how the property appears from the ground. So these are a set of images on the left side or a set of images street side facing northwest from McComb Street. And you can see it's fully vacant on the right side or a set of images from street side again from Manila Drive. And again, you can see it's fully vacant. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 And so the intent of this incentive is to help transform that that bacon line to a property that's going to contain five buildings again 40 units of housing, and they will appear like this and so this this developer did work with us from the very beginning to make sure that their design was completely correlated with what the info policy means to to motivate
 And just generally what that is is more walkable developments. And so here you can see that these are multi story buildings, which helps create framing for pedestrians. The principal entrance is oriented towards the main street in this case is McCombs. The parking is moved away from the front and then shot towards the back so that the sort of the principal
 impact that the pedestrians have when they're walking by there is the architecture, the building and not so much the asphalt in the cars. And as I mentioned, so the applicant did work with us from the very beginning to help get this design to where it needed to be to comply with the infill policy. In doing so, they also objectively qualified for the incentives that are contained within the city's adopted infill policy. And those are on the next slide, please IT.
 So these are the incentives. And again, this is straight from the infill policy. So it's threefold. The principal incentive is an incremental property tax rebate capped at $90,590. And I do want to emphasize that it's incremental.
 So we keep the base currently that does not affect the city's coffers. All this does is start adding more tax revenue for us and obviously for our taxing partners. That's across five years. That's a total of $90,590. There's also a $21,000 cap construction material sales tax rebate and then a permit fee rebate of $10,000. So the total incentive proposed is capped at $121,590. Next slide, please, IT.
 And then of course, we always like to show you all what your all the positive approval actions will generate in terms of positive spillover for tax for taxing partners. And so, as I mentioned, the city will get $10,000 across the five year period, but the county also gets $54,000. EPIC gets $146,000.
 EPCC 15,000 UMC 29,000. So the total impact is $257,000 plus dollars. And again, this is we keep the base. So this is brand new revenue for for ourselves and for our taxing partners. Next slide please. And so again, the request today is simply to approve a chapter three the Infill Incentive Agreement between the Citadel Passive and the Combs Village LLC. And for all the reasons I mentioned, staff is recommending approval. And so with that, I'll take any questions you may have.
 Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. We have no questions. We have a motion and a second. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 49 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. This is a great presentation. Again, thank you, Mr. Arellano. I'm voting yes. Great project, great presentation. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez.
 Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizada? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 51. This is discussion in action regarding a resolution that the City of El Paso appoint to the Camino Real Regional Mobility Authority, Dorothy Sissy Burr, to position 6, and reappoint Colonel James Smith to position 4. Well, I want to thank you all for...
 The first nomination actually came from the RMA and nominated Colonel Smith and felt that Colonel Smith had done a really good job and she wanted him to continue. He's actually the Vice Chair of the RMA today. And then Ms. Dorothy Bird was recommended by Representative Molinar and I thank you for that. Do we have a motion? So moved. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 there's a motion in a second to approve item number 51 on that motion mayor pro-time shortsway yes representative anello hi hernandez yes molinar hi salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera yes aye and that motion passes unanimously and the last item on the agenda is number 53
 This is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Council declared that the expenditure of District 2 discretionary funds and an amount not to exceed $1,800 to purchase a public bench to be installed on city-owned property near Alice Road and Loretto Street serves a municipal purpose. Commissioner Nunez? Yeah, I talked about this yesterday. Again, pretty straightforward. Placing a bench in a city park that had been vacant for, I think, over 10 years. So just wanting to improve the area.
 So with that, I'll make a motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 53. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yeah. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to the end of the agenda. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Thank you, council. Good night. Have a good evening. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, March 2nd. Great meeting, great presentation. I represent Rivera-Gatzke and Sanchez. The meeting is adjourned at 8.18 p.m. Thank you.
 Good night everyone. DIRECTOR RANKINSON- Good night. DIRECTOR RANKINSON- Good night. DIRECTOR RANKINSON- Everybody.