Ms. Pryne, can we start please? We have a quorum. Good morning, Mayor. Yes, sir.
 Yes. So click on view on the top one. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, March 1st, 2022. Present in council chambers are Mayor Leaser, Representative Shortspine, Representative Manalo, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, and Representative Lizaga. Representative Hernandez has requested to be excused this morning. It is 9 o 4 a.m.
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police, Fire and Ministry Coordinator for the Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferroni. Good morning everyone. Good morning, sir. And I want to begin with a brief scripture from Isaiah chapter 41 that says, Do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God.
 I will strengthen you and help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Be sure to join me by bowing your heads as I pray. Lord, thank you for the blessing of another day to live and to work and to make a difference in this world. Thank you for the gift of life. I thank you for those elected officials who have chosen to serve our city and the people of El Paso.
 And I lift before you my mayor and representatives, other officials and staff members. Please let each of us experience the wonder of your presence, your guidance, and your wisdom as this meeting commences today. I pray for each of them and their families that you will cover them with grace, safety, and good health. Lord, would you please season this meeting with your grace.
 In all interaction and decision making, let there be consideration and respect. Most of all, may our words and actions be pleasing in your sight. Let the goal for each of us be the betterment of life in our beloved El Paso. God bless our city, our nation, and our world. In these tumultuous times in our world, we need you to be our solid foundation, our peace, and our guide in facing the days ahead.
 Please watch over all of those who keep us safe and who protect our freedoms. In the name of the Lord, I pray. Amen. And may God bless you. Amen. Thank you, sir. And may God bless you. Thank you, sir. That brings us to the Pledge of Allegiance. Colonel, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Thank you and good morning everyone and I'd like to, you know, I think the city manager kind of said it best yesterday as the city is recovering from COVID and some great things are happening within our community as council has made some, you know, people say tough decisions but I think tough decisions are easy to make when it's the right decision and I think council's done some really great work whether it's in COVID or not.
 things representing our community. So I do want to thank council for everything that's been going on in the past two years. And like I said, I don't find them tough. I find that we've made the right decisions to make sure that we protect our community. You know, there's a lot of uncertainty today in the world and we'll continue to pray and we'll continue to look for peace and common ground in our community. I'm going to turn it over right now to Mayor Pro Tem.
 um i just had a small prayer that i'd like to uh share with the ukraine um um i think it's important right now in these times of uncertainty to understand that that war is between governments um and that we wish peace for the people of ukraine and russia and across the world um
 My family descended from Ukraine and landed to Argentina in the 1880s. And so although I don't know if I have any family that's still there, what we're seeing here is something that's truly unfortunate and should not be happening between nations. And it's up to all of us, person to person, people to people, to bring peace across this world.
 God in heaven, creator of all flesh, worker of wonders, do not stay silent, do not remain voiceless, do not keep aloof. For an evil man has come to power and declared war on another country, saying, we will rise up violently against you in battle. But you, God, have commanded us in your sacred scriptures, saying, do not stand idly by by the blood of your neighbor. I am God, therefore make the aggressor desist from destruction. We pray to you now, God, of the spirits of all flesh, to use your infinite power to end these acts of bloodshed and terror.
 Spread peace across the earth and bring joy to all its inhabitants, so that the words of the prophets can be fulfilled. The warrior's bow will be broken and peace will not be promised to all peoples. God will judge between the nations and arbitrate between many countries. They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not live of sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore. And let us say amen. Amen. Amen.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. And I think that we all have, I think our blood is all over the world, all over our country, our ancestry. And, you know, and thank you for the words, the prayer. And we pray for peace. My father, who served in World War II, would be turning in his grave to see what's going on in our country today and in our world. So let's have a moment of silence for peace and love in our country and in the world. Thank you.
 Thank you. And may God bless America and may God bless El Paso. Ms. Prine? Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is Women's History Month. Good morning, everybody, and thank you. As one of the five women that serves on this council, I'm very proud to read this proclamation.
 Whereas Women's History Month celebrates the achievements and important contributions of women and whereas El Paso Community College EPCC diversity and inclusion programs will present its 14th annual Women's History Month celebration entitled women's providing healing promoting hope and whereas in honor of Women's History Month, El Paso
 El Paso Community College Diversity and Inclusion Programs will conduct virtual presentations each Wednesday at noon in the month of March in order to engage, inspire, and celebrate women everywhere.
 whereas it remains to be our responsibility as citizens to promote awareness and knowledge of women's history now therefore let it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of March shall be known as Women's History Month thank you thank you the next proclamation is Socorro de Anda recognition day we have a speaker up at the
 I apologize, Mayor. Go ahead, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Leeser and honorable city council members. Thank you once again for having us here and providing us this proclamation resolution. My name is Dr. Andrew Pena. I'm the executive director for human resources with the El Paso Community College. Diversity inclusion is and should always be part of everything we do.
 The college continues these efforts in our programs. This year's Women's History Month theme is Women Providing Healing Promoting Hope. It will run through the month of March. All of our upcoming virtual events are centered on this theme. Our Women's History Month committee felt that it was important to highlight the following four areas. Nutrition, wellness, mental health, and testing.
 With me here today is one of our diversity inclusion employees, Ms. Luz de los Reyes, and she will tell you all about the upcoming virtual events and how to join us. And this is our personal invitation to all of you in the community. Thank you once again. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to be here. My name is Luz de los Reyes, and I will be.
 Going over our presentations, we will be hosting a great series under the theme of Women Provided Healing Promoting Hope, celebrating the 14th year at APCC by having four virtual presentations with wonderful guest speakers every Wednesday during March from noon to 1 p.m. via Microsoft Teams.
 Starting this week, we will have Iris Lopez March 2nd. She is the executive director from Mija Yes You Can. And she will be presenting Knowing Your Worth in Your Workplace and Knowing When to Take a Break. And then March 9th the following week we will have Susie Zambrano. She is a treasurer from Mija Yes You Can and she will be presenting Dealing Burnout at Your Workplace and Contemplating Quitting or Changing Careers.
 Then we will have spring break, but when we come back, we will have March 23rd, Neora Garcia. She is a community member and artist from El Paso Art Association. She will be presenting relaxation through drumming. And finally, March 30th, we will have Leticia Arellano presenting Breaking Rules in our 40s. And she is a community member and beauty enthusiast. Thank you. Thank you.
 Have a great day. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. The next proclamation is Socorro Teanda, recognition day. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. It's my privilege to read this proclamation this morning.
 Whereas the Lydia Patterson Institute founded in 1913 is a college preparatory school located in El Paso Segundo Barrio that offers programs primarily for Spanish speaking children educating nearly 400 students per year.
 And whereas Lydia Patterson Institute was one of the first schools in the United States to emphasize the teaching of English as a second language and to then merge students into the appropriate grade levels to put them on the path toward graduation from high school. And whereas Dr. Socorro Brito de Anda.
 has given 37 years of service to Lydia Patterson Institute, including 30 years serving as its president, during which she has led the school to a college acceptance rate of over 96%, and has helped to raise more than 25 million in scholarship funds
 for Lydia Patterson students to attend college. Whereas through her remarkable commitment, both to the Lydia Patterson Institute and to the many students who have graduated during her tenure there,
 Dr. De Anda has been an extraordinarily servant of the community, leaving a unique mark on El Paso's south side and on the borderland as a whole. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso, Texas, that Tuesday, March 1, 2022,
 shall be known as Socorro de Anda Recognition Day. Congratulations, doctors. Dr. de Anda, congratulations. As I listened to Representative Sardiga read it, I was kind of amazed that you started before I was born. So congratulations. Thank you for all the great work you've done. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much for this special moment, this recognition.
 But I feel like I should be the one that should be thanking all of you, Mayor Leaser, the city of El Paso, for the support that you throughout the years have rendered to Lydia Patterson Institute. This institution has been serving the El Paso Juarez community for over 100 years. And throughout those 100 years, Lydia Patterson has formed many, many leaders for both sides of the border. We proudly say that...
 Even through the pandemic we were able to graduate students and to send them off to college. In the last few years 100% of our graduating seniors are now attending college and becoming professionals. I humbly accept this recognition but I feel that I have to share it with my faculty and staff, with my students and
 every single student that has gone through Lydia Patterson and has come to serve not only our binational community here but throughout the country. So again thank you very much for this recognition and I have served 37 years proudly served Lydia Patterson 30 years because I'm serving not only the school but I'm serving the community.
 And my hope is only that you all continue to support this school that has given so much to our binational community of El Paso Juarez. Thank you very much. Thank you each one of you. Thank you.
 The final proclamation is Ingborg Hauser recognition day. Thank you. So whereas Ingborg Hauser, an icon in El Paso and Juarez, and a global emissary for UTEP in the Paso del Norte region, survived the horrors and destruction of World War II, and immigrated to the United States in 1948, and arrived in El Paso Hades in 1953, and opened her dance studio, the Ballet Center, in 1955.
 joined the faculty of Texas Western College UTEP in 1960 and established the Texas Western Civic Ballet and Ballet degree plan in the music department and became a tenured professor then retired from UTEP in 2007.
 And whereas Ms. Hoyzer created Ballets for El Paso audiences for almost five decades, training young dancers and produced school performances for El Paso children and established Ballet El Paso, the first professional ballet company in the border southwest. Serving as artistic director of the company as well as the Ballet of the Americas and UTEP Ballet and created a regional ballet company with the international reach.
 thus laying the foundation for the performing arts in the region. And whereas Ms. Hoyser served on the dance advisory panel for the Texas Commission of the Arts, received the El Paso Star on the Mountain in 2009, the first Spirit of El Paso Award, Woman of the Year by El Paso Women's Political Caucus, YWCA Reach Award for Outstanding Achievement in the Arts, and was inducted into the El Paso Commission on Women's Hall of Fame in 2009.
 whereas Ingeborg Heuser, a noted classic ballet teacher, choreographer and designer, passed away on February 14th, 2022 in El Paso, surrounded by her loving family and caregivers and is survived by her sons Joseph Weissmuller and Christian Blackwell, her daughter-in-law Jory Blackwell and her grandsons Alex and Johan.
 as well as thousands of former students, admirers, friends, compatriots who celebrate her life and are grateful for the gifts of dance and friendship that she shared with them.
 whereas Ingeborg Hoyser's dedication to the City of El Paso through her artistic educational business and personal contributions have greatly benefited the City of El Paso improved our quality of life now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso that March 1st 2022 shall be known as Ingeborg Hoyser recognition day thank you thank you and with that that concludes the proclamations
 Yes, sir. Would counsel like to take some photos with the honorees? Okay. We'll take a brief pause. Thank you.
 Okay, sorry, sorry. Everybody, on the count of two, three. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations.
 Let's go.
 Thank you.
 Ms. Pryor, can we get committee? Yes, Mayor. If Council will return to the dais, we can continue with the meeting, please. Thank you. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 Council, per the rules of order, you may not use any electronic devices other than the desktop computer. Once you obtain the floor from the mayor, you will have up to ten minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item. And please refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining us virtually, please make sure your microphones are muted to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. KEN HOWARD JR.: OK, Mayor.
 Proposed revisions for the March 1st 2022 meeting as of March 1st 2022, 830 a.m. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent council members. And that's to excuse Representative Cassandra Hernandez from today's meeting. Okay. Page 3, item 4, move to the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 11, item 27, proposed postponed eight weeks per Representative Venelo and La Sarga.
 And page 11, item 28, postpone eight weeks per Representative Anello and Lazaria. And are there any other revisions at this time, Council? Okay, is there a second? Thank you. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the agenda, the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you.
 Laura, I'm having issues logging in. If you want to just take my vote. Your vote, ma'am. Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, I think our system froze. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we take item four that was moved to the regular agenda? Move it to 15. Please make your motion to approve. The header change something. Hopefully. Mayor, may we take item four now?
 Thank you. Item four is a resolution that city council accept the recommendation from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and hereby approve the renaming of the Yucca Park located at 7975 Williamette Avenue as Ralph T. Cloud Park. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, council.
 For the record, Ben Fife, Managing Director of Cultural Affairs and Recreation. The item before you today is for approval of the renaming of this particular park. This followed the council-approved process for parks renaming and was approved unanimously by the Parks and Recreation Board at the last meeting. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, sir. I believe we have the family on call right now.
 Yes, sir. We do have some speakers that signed up this morning on this item. Would you like to take that now? Yes, ma'am. Okay. The first speaker is Elizabeth Cloud. Ms. Cloud, if you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Elizabeth Cloud, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. To unmute. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning Ms. Cloud. You have three minutes. Okay. Okay. First of all, good morning to just a second, I'm sorry. Okay. Good morning to everyone there on the board, Mayor Leeser, all the commissioners. I just wanted to reiterate the reasons why we would like to have the park named after Ralph D. Cloud Park.
 has been a pillar in our community. He has been a community leader and activist for years and years and years, starting with the schools at Mesa Vista to Hillcrest to Bel Air High School. He has made it a point for everyone in the community to get involved. He's had various speakers go and talk to us
 from Mr. Steve Ortega, Veronica Escobar, Mr. Blanco, Mr. Rivera, our local leaders from the police department, fire department, our superintendent for the Isleta district, Mr. De La Torre, the administration for Val Air High School. He has done so much for the community and it's something that we feel that should not be unnoticed and stuff. He has really worked hard all his life
 One of the greatest assets that I think that he always possessed was that he always thought of the children. He had always, always had fundraisers with the lunchbox here locally. And all the funds that were raised from this fundraiser were used to promote scholarships for the kids for Beller. Even though we didn't have any kids attending Beller anymore.
 It just spoke volumes of what his mentality was at all times. It was everything always for the kids, you know, the improvements for the parks, for the kids, everything. So I really feel like he has really earned this right, I guess, to have this park named after him because he did so much for the community. And again, I'd like to thank you for your support on behalf of the family.
 And that's it. Thank you, Ms. Cloud. The next speaker is Romelia Cloud. Okay. I've got her right here. Thank you. Good morning, Ms. Cloud. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor, City Council. Good morning. It's hard for me to express my feelings, but I thank you very much for everything. And I'm sure that if Ralph was alive, he would have been so happy.
 But six months after him gone, he would be honored if the park would be named after him. I thank you so much, Mr. Rivera, Steph, and all of his friends, Vince Perez and Claudia. Thank you so much, and God bless everybody. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sylvia Carrillo.
 Ms. Carrion, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good morning, ma'am. Yes, ma'am, good morning. This is Sylvia Carrion, president of the Loma La Neighborhood Association and the Mission Valley Civic Association. And I want to wholeheartedly support the renaming of this current Yucca Park to Mr. Ralph T. Cloud Park in honor of this individual who worked very, very hard for his community.
 Mr. Clowder and I were coaches with the Longhorn Youth program many, many years ago. He was coaching football and baseball, I believe, with many teams. And this is where his love for children had acquired from the beginning. And his love of children never demised by anything. He started the Yucca Neighborhood Association. His meetings were held at the Judge Marcus Library
 And so, and I attended some of those meetings, not all of them, but I attended them. His greatest work was his partnering up with the Bell Air Booster Club doing his fundraisers, not only for the Bell Air Booster Club, but for the kids in the area. He would support a lot of the clubs that were in the vicinity at Meso Vista, Sage Land, Hillcrest.
 So much error. So she did work part of it with the youth. And so to have scholarships, like the young lady said, his association created a wall for the victims of family violence there at Yucca Park.
 that mural stand is there at Yucca Park. And he very strongly supported that. Names have been added to that particular honor. A strong supporter of all the veterans. He continued doing a lot of work with the veteran program. Mr. Crowder and I both had a love for improvement of our community and our neighborhoods.
 He started his association way before me, but he had a strong work ethic and supported by his wife and his children. Everywhere that he had meetings touched a lot of people. And I pray and encourage for the city council to approve the renaming of the park to Mr. Ralph T. Cloud. May he rest in peace and we love him very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. And the next speaker is Ms. Fabiola Campos-Lopez. Ms. Lopez, star six, please to unmute your telephone. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Leather, city council members and city staff. Good morning. My name is Fabiola Campos-Lopez, representing Corridor 20 Civic Association in the Mission Valley.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak in favor of the renaming of Yucca Park to Ralph T. Cloud Park. Corridor 20 Civic Association is pleased to support this well-earned request. In 2007, Mr. Cloud foresaw the need and benefit of empowering his neighborhood by starting the Yucca Neighborhood Association. As president of the association, he was always an active member of the El Paso Neighborhood Coalition until he passed.
 He was an outstanding community leader who earned the respect and support of the Yucca neighborhood association members, the other Mission Valley neighborhood association, Dyslera school district and many other alleys because of his remarkable commitment and responsibility to serve.
 For the last 14 years, he had organized the association's monthly meetings and formed great partnerships like with the Isleta Independent School District and specifically with a neighborhood high school, Baylor High School. His interests were many and all for the community's welfare, but it was noticeable his interest in the Judge Edward S. Marcus Library,
 He care about the neighborhood children and youth, having the library always available to youth to nurture their knowledge and enjoy the library services. His legacy will always be present and the Corridor 20 Civic Association and El Paso Neighborhood Coalition will always appreciate Mr. Clow's long-term outstanding leadership and community driven commitment.
 Please consider this petition and support the request to rename the current Yucca Park to the new Ralph T. Cloud Park in the heart of the Mission Valley area. And I close with these words by Martin Luther King Jr., the time is always right to do what is right. Thank you for your attention. Be safe and stay healthy, please. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor that concludes the public comment on this item Thank you, thank you mayor as you can tell council mr. Cloud was well respected well loved and and Honored as in his own area of town and beyond he would he worked with several as stated
 businesses, school districts, just to better the children around there. His match for his family was just as strong. He was devoted to his wife for several years, children, and together they made their business the community. The community was totally their business, and as you can tell, he was very successful in attaining scholarships for kids from Bel Air High School.
 This council honored him with a proclamation and I strongly recommend that we pass this naming of Ralph T cloud as mr. Ben 5 said it was a unanimous decision. There was no hesitation in the vote and Everybody would like to Have that part named after him. Thank you, man. Thank you. Is there a motion? I have motion to second there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido and
 to approve on that motion. Sorry, the system's a bit delayed this morning. Call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Thank you. We now turn to page number 5, item number 14. This is presentation and update by the city manager and staff on phase 2 of the body-worn camera program for the El Paso Police Department. Mayor? Mayor? Go ahead. Thank you, sir.
 I have placed this item on the agenda so that staff can provide the public, mayor and council and anyone listening on an update regarding Phase 2 of the body cameras, body worn cameras for the El Paso Police Department. In recent weeks my colleagues have questioned the status of the body cameras so I figured what better time to bring that to light where the staff can provide you the information.
 With our city manager quarterbacking the team, being the staff, there is a game plan in place. They have done their due diligence, have not left any stone unturned, and seeking federal, state, and anywhere else that can get grant funding for these body cameras. It is essential that we fit our department with body-worn cameras because at times, even this council have been critical of the department's tactics or even tactics
 the handling of a of an individual therefore i i uh sought to put this agenda so that we can know where and where uh where and uh when we will be seeing them warned by our police officers mr
 Mr. Gonzales, I turn the floor over to you. So Representative Rivera and the rest of the council, so what we had said at the last meeting is that we had briefed you individually with regard to the utilization of the ARPA funds for this purpose. The reason why we did this is yesterday you had a comprehensive briefing on the budgeting process and just a lot of the history of the budget in terms of what's been funded, what hasn't been funded,
 the tax rate is done or not done and what has not been made a priority in the past or what didn't get funded in the past.
 so when we engage on something of this magnitude we always want to make sure that we have dollars associated with it that are going to be able to maintain and sustain the effort and we also are sensitive to also the council's guidance with regard to the tax rate so when this opportunity
 was brought before us with regard to the dollars being used from ARPA for operational needs, in particular the health response. But this is an eligible expense, and this is something that can be utilized. And what it does by us having these dollars to be able to utilize
 them for this purpose is it takes care of the first three years and gives us the ability to ramp up for the fourth and fifth year payment on a lease package for the body worn cameras and it also gives us the ability to ramp up for the sustainability part of it and that's the Storage space and also just the operational piece the training the open records piece associated with this There's a lot of different angles. We've included the legal department. I've worked closely with Smith and
 with Ms. Neiman, as well with the police department and the finance department as well. So we have an overall briefing if y'all wanna hear it and I can turn it over to staff so they can go over that in more detail. I think that presentation would be more appropriate right now, sir. Okay, so if you guys are ready, y'all can go ahead and start. Robert, you and Dion. Good morning, Chief Silva will be taking us through the presentation and we'll all be available to answer any questions.
 Thank you. Thank you, Dion. Thank you, Chief Silva. Good morning, Assistant Chief Zilva with the El Paso Police Department. I'm here to give you a briefing of the digital video recording system under Goal 2, Safe and Beautiful Neighborhoods, setting the standard for a safe and secure city.
 I want to talk about the digital video recording system. It's comprised of two components that work together. On the left is the body-worn camera, which you see on the lapel of a patrol officer. And on the right is the mobile video recording system, which is the camera system that's located inside the patrol vehicle.
 There are a myriad of benefits to the DVRC program. Having a DVRC program can help promote public trust. It helps promote and enhance public safety. It improves the transparency between officer and citizen interactions, and it provides accountability as the videos can be utilized not only as evidence, but for training, open records requests, internal review, and administrative investigations.
 The EPPD would like to enhance the DVRC program by deploying 700 body-worn cameras to the patrol and traffic sections within our division. We would like to install and integrate 410 mobile video recording systems within the patrol vehicles. We'd like to purchase a five-year service contract agreement, utilize cloud-based storage, and increase our personnel and computer equipment to manage the program.
 Phase one of the grant, phase one of the deployment phase was in 2018, we received $110,000 from the Endeavor Corporation. We used that funding in 2019 to purchase 34 body-worn cameras. We deployed 17 to the crisis intervention team and 17 to the driving while intoxicated unit, commonly known as the DWI unit.
 Those units were deployed and became operational in June of 2019. In 2020, we received $50,000 from the Cardwell Foundation, and we used that money in 2021 to purchase 28 replacement body-worn cameras.
 The EPPD has not only been working on the upgrade and development of the digital video recording system, but since 2016, with the guidance of the City Manager, Deputy City Manager, Chief of Police, Performance Office, cross-functional teams, and the IT Department, we have developed, established, implemented, and enhanced the following programs.
 We established the downtown metro unit, the animal cruelty unit, gang suppression. We enhanced the DWI task force, the crisis intervention team, the NIBIN system, the FLIR vehicle, the automated fingerprint identification system, and we have implemented and deployed the only firefly gunshot detection system in the El Paso area. Most recently last week, we deployed our very own secured messaging system.
 In addition, we've been talking about our aging vehicles, and in August of 2017, we received certificates of obligation for the vehicle replacement plan. We've purchased over 300 patrol vehicles that didn't include motorcycles, Explorers, F-150 trucks, and road rage vehicles. And we also used COVID funding to purchase 13 Mitigation Task Force SUVs.
 In addition to the patrol vehicle, we also had an aging unmarked vehicle. We've since purchased over 120 unmarked vehicles, with 50 more being delivered this summer. And an in-progress purchase is a command post. We've also taken over the code enforcement section, which is now part of the El Paso Police Department organizational structure, and we received a contract to purchase seven vehicles for that unit.
 Most notably, we have taken over the City Watch camera program. The UPPD Fusion Center began monitoring over 1,700 cameras throughout the system. Some of the most prominent areas include the San Jacinto Plaza, Cincinnati, the Chamisal, water parks, and the senior centers.
 And finally, one of our most recent activities was the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Far Eastside Regional Command, and that was held on 2-2 of 22. We're also going to perform major maintenance and renovation of some of our other command facilities, which will improve the working conditions for all city employees, not just the police officers, but the civilian components that work alongside with us.
 We are also in the design phase currently with the new police academy, which will accommodate current and larger class sizes for future growth with the department. And then we'll be moving into the design phase for the new police headquarters and the new central regional command. So let's look at what the cost would be for the program. If we were to look at a five-year plan, which would be a perpetual model showing growth within years two to five,
 If we were to do a straight out cash purchase, starting with year one, purchasing 700 cameras, the 410 mobile video recorders, and the accompanying support staff and computers, the first year cost of the program would be just over $3.5 million.
 Going up to year five, the total cost of the program will be just over $14 million. And please keep in mind that these are today's prices without any added contingencies. And as you know, prices are always subject to change, especially due to production and transportation costs associated with COVID-19.
 If we consider the five-year leasing option in year one, it would cost just over $1.6 million, with the total at year five just at $11.5 million. This would be a cost of over $2.4 million to the city. And in addition, the five-year leasing option offers a complete refresh of the body cameras at year three. Some of the potential funding sources that could be available to the police department
 Last year in 2021, the El Paso Police Department did apply for the Officer of the Governor's State grant in the amount of $497,000 with a cash match of $165,000, bringing the total cost of that grant to just over $663,000. We also believe that we could potentially use ARPA funding in the amount of $6.6 million. That would be a total cost of $7.2 million.
 The city would need to cover $4.3 million to make up the total cost of the program. However, if we utilize the leasing option,
 The city would not have to come up with any more funding until the third year of the program, given the city approximately three years to come up with a funding plan and put resources aside to cover years four and five of the program. And, of course, during this time period, the PD and the city will continue to research and apply for other granting opportunities. The estimated funding and purchasing timeline could look like this.
 If we were to receive the Office of the Governor award, it would come sometime in the month of March. We would work with purchasing to procure a vendor and that would take about 120 days.
 The delivery of the body cameras from the vendor could take up to 60 days. And we expect the mobile video recorders would take a little bit longer, with 75 days for delivery and up to 90 days for installation. And then training and back office software installation will take us into April, with the full deployment coming up around the middle of the summer of June 2023.
 And finally, the rollout of the program could follow a very short rollout phase, starting with the smaller units, with traffic, the metro unit, the gang unit and airport taking about 60 days. And after that, each regional command would take about one week for full deployment. Remember, we're already very familiar with working with body cameras and mobile video recorders. So we believe that this particular rollout process will be very doable for the El Paso Police Department.
 And that concludes my briefing on the digital video recording system. Thank you. Mayor, we have public speakers, correct? Yes, sir, we do. Can we take those, Mayor? Yeah, of course. The first speaker is Samantha Singleton Sherman. She will be participating by telephone. If you press star 6, you'll unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Samantha Singleton-Sherman, and I'm the coordinator for the El Paso Police Department Accountability Task Force with Border Network for Human Rights. So first of all, I want to thank Mayor, the city manager, and all the counselors for this opportunity to speak.
 On behalf of Border Network for Human Rights, Fernando Garcia, the Executive Director, and the Accountability Task Force, we are in agreeance with the body cam proposal. Body cams are an intricate part of protecting the citizens and police officers of El Paso. Body cams can increase public confidence in local policing, promote public safety. It enables trust.
 it enhances transparency and it sets the foundation for accountability and responsibility for everyone involved body cams protect both the citizens from potential criminal justice allegations and the police officer from alleged police brutality body cams can improve officer training as well as evaluation
 I'm hopeful for the benefit that will be obtained for the community and knowing that transparency and accountability will be better fostered by the installation of body cams. And in closing, we ask that you take a stand, secure the safety of our community members, and vote yes on body cams to protect the citizens and police officers of El Paso. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Mark Anthony Salazar. If you're in the queue, star six please. Mark Salazar, star six. Mark Anthony Salazar. I don't see him in the queue. We'll move to Ave Maria Smart. If you're in the queue, star six. Ave Maria Smart, star six please to unmute your telephone. Miss Smart, I see you in the queue. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Miss Smart, star six please. You're still on mute.
 Ave Maria Smart, star six please. We'll move on to Mr. Ray Mancera. If you're in the queue, star six please to unmute your telephone. Ray Mancera, Ave Maria Smart, or Mark Salazar, star six. If you're in the queue to unmute your telephone. Ave Maria Smart, Ray Mancera, Mark Salazar. If you're in the queue, star six. We'll unmute your telephone. Good morning, Ms. Smart. You have three minutes now.
 Good morning. Thank you and I apologize for my delay. I had a little problem. Samantha Singleton-Sherman has already expressed my opinion on the body cam. Thank you for the time. Thank you for all that's been done to produce this major step in our El Paso city. Thank you so much. Thank you. Mayor, I don't see Mr. Salazar or Mr. Mancera in the queue. Good. Thank you.
 So we'll move to, we have two City Council members, Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Sal Cedal. Mayor Pro Tem? Yes Mayor, thank you again. First of all I want to thank City staff for this great presentation, very informative. I think it
 uh provides a very clear timeline and expectations for deliverables for this very important program for our community not just for our residents but also for our police officers that will ultimately keep everybody in this community safe and engaged and informed i also very much would like to thank representative rivera
 who has been a champion of this program and the necessity and need for this program since the very first day that he came onto council.
 And I want to thank him personally for it. Not only has he been a champion, but he's also been an educator on this program as well, helping to communicate both to the public and to this council as well as to staff the need and necessity for this project and this program to happen sooner than later. So just want to make sure to again, thank him personally for that. Thank you again, Representative Rivera for that.
 The last question that I had relating to the, I guess it's slide 13, just so that I'm clear in terms of expectations. Do we expect to have this grant awarded to the city of El Paso or is that still up in the air in terms of the grant awarding?
 So we haven't seen a notification yet on whether or not we've received award of the grant. Still waiting. Okay. And I guess that we have contingency plans that if the award was not granted, then we would make up that difference with the ARPA funds. So you, manager? That's essentially correct. Okay. And what we're doing is we're trying to leverage...
 other granting opportunities and as you saw some of the granting opportunities are not significant enough to make a the type of dent we need in order to have a full-scale program so we heard the council and as I said this gives us the ability to ramp up to that fourth and fifth year for those sustain sustainability costs that are necessary as the council is well aware we need pay-as-you-go dollars and we can't just jump into a program without having planned it financially so this gives us the ability to do that
 And I think that's really great. And I think too that when we talk about what are
 What what are needs not once this is very much a need for our community? It's an opportunity again to keep our police officers safe to keep our residents safe And it's a best practice that we've seen throughout the country and I think Looking at a strategy that's informed by our police department, but also our IT looking at having a leasing versus a purchase also gives us the ability to maintain those connections
 with technology. As the technology improves, the price goes down and we're not necessarily stuck with a product that is obsolete in the near future. Yes, sir. And this also gives us the ability just to add one sentence to what you said. Yes, sir. Yesterday I was talking about steady investment and how it wasn't smart to reduce
 the tax rate and not invest in things like public safety. I believe if all those years there had been an investment in it, then the body cameras would have naturally been part of that in that process. But this council and the council before this, you all have made a lot of decisions to right the ship, if you will, whether it was vehicles, whether it was a number of police officers, whether it was a significant amount of new programs that have been stood up.
 as a result of adding more police officers, now this is in concert with that. It's a compliment to it. It's something that was always a priority, but a lot of the things that we were looking to fund was just coming at us from all directions. So yeah, I agree with you, Mayor Pro Tem. This was brought to light by the Representative Rivera, and the council's been very supportive, and so this gives us the ability to do this financially and enable to have a plan to sustain the effort as well.
 Yeah, and I think to looking at slide 13, the sort of estimated funding and purchasing timeline. I believe that it, um, you know, to the ability that we can work within our established policies and processes to expedite this. I think it's really important. Um, but it's it's very reassuring to see that we could expect
 deployment on our police vehicles and our police officers by the summer of 2023. Again, I know that that the
 philosophy from management is to be conservative to under promise and over deliver so I am hopeful that these numbers in this timeline could be could be quickened up expedited with our established policies and processes but again I think this this kind of information this presentation is extremely helpful and very educating and illuminating for the for the community as a whole and again
 I just want to get in person and thank representative Rivera again from his very first day of being on City Council he has been a stalwart ally for the police department also for the citizens of the city and looking at the needs of what we need to do to keep this community safe and his championing of the body worn.
 camera program for our community has been one of the biggest priorities. I'm very, very excited to see this come to fruition and it would not have happened without Representative Rivera's commitment. So thank you.
 Mayor Pro Tem, I know that the council as a whole is very deliberate about the accountability of what we report. I just wanted to remind you what Chief Silva said with regard to the transportation issues that are sometimes a challenge. But yeah, we're going to work very hard to make that happen.
 timeline that's been presented but I just did want to remind you about that thank you sir yes sir representative Salcido followed by Representative Molinari
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much for the great presentation. I did want to say thank you to Representative Rivera for putting this item on the agenda. I think this was important for accountability for the community, given that we spend about, what, 49% of our budget for public safety. And so I think it's important for us to be transparent, and I think that these body cameras do provide that for the community.
 And I was looking for the slide I can't find it on the funding that the CEOs did for our community. What a slight was that. The certificate of obligations you're talking about that was for the vehicle replacement. OK. And then that again is another way of using those CEOs responsibly in addressing the needs of the public. So I just want to say thank you again. I think this is a great item brings transparency accountability to the public and thank you.
 Thank you. Representative Salcedo, with regard to the COs, we have reported before that about 82 percent approximately was spent on infrastructure or public safety type of initiatives, and only 18 percent was for quality of life. So just to that point, glad you brought that up. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Representative Salcedo. Representative Maldonado?
 Thank you very much Mister mayor so representative rivera thank you very much for posting this item on this agenda and be the champion being the former police officer that you were a couple of things that I'd like to point out I do support body cameras body worn cameras I do some for them. Do we live in a world of technology we live in a world of everything is video everything is captured everything is a whole different system now.
 I just want to make sure that everybody on this council understands that how this is going to impact future budgets. And I know city managers, you have already addressed part of that for at least the first three years and not ramping up, like you said, for the first five years. But that money will be needed. It'll be a priority. We're going to say that because we're making this a priority, and I support it.
 So there's nothing wrong with that. But I just want to make sure that we also understand that open records are going to increase, both for the city attorney's office, the city overall. And Ms. Neiman, if you have a number for 2021 by any chance for open records request, ma'am. I'm working on that. I believe it was 7,000 last year, but I'm confirming the number. Okay, so 7,000. And the majority of them are police department records. 7,000.
 Yes, ma'am. So thank you very much. I appreciate that information. And so it just goes without saying there's going to be more requests, open records requests, whether it's from a traffic stop, a domestic violence call, anyone making allegations against police officers, which is.
 which every citizen has a right to do so I'm not discounting that fact they need to make that and make sure that police officers are held accountable that is that just goes without saying but just want to make sure that we're clear on that and that it's going to happen and also to that point if I may yes sir you make a really good point in that represents virtually one penny on the tax rate
 this this cost that we're going to bear in the fourth year and also like the police and fire equipment replacement that's approximately two cents so whenever we say we have to ramp up for it or have some money set aside in order to do that that staves off additional debt
 because when you have pay-as-you-go dollars, you can pay for equipment replacement with actual money up front as opposed to putting it on debt. I know some people had heartburn about putting the vehicles in debt to purchase because, but it is an eligible expense, by the way, through COs. But because they were in such bad shape as a department with regard to vehicles, that move was supported by the entire council with respect to when that decision was made. But I think the point you're making is extremely honest.
 point with regard to the budget and and it's a good reminder so thank you for bringing it up anyways like I said I will be supporting this initiative thank you
 Thank you, Chief, for the presentation. I guess my question is for city manager. When should we expect? I know that council has to approve the allocation of ARPA funds for this. When should we expect that? Should we be making this motion today? It's not set up for action with the way it was posted by the representative. So I don't believe y'all can take action. The city attorney can correct me if I'm wrong on that. But I don't think you can take action. But we would be bringing this item for council action. And we'll be working.
 to take steps that we need to take in order to make that timeline start happening. But we can bring that at the next council meeting for council to take action on the ARPA funds for this specific purpose. CHRISTIE WOODARD- OK, thank you. KEN HOWARD- Yes, ma'am.
 Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, I have the data. I was off actually on FY 2021. We saw 10,206 open records, which is a 22% increase from the previous year. OK, can you please repeat that number, 10,000? 10,206, which was a 22% increase from the prior year. All right, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Manolo.
 Representative Rivera. Thank you, sir. I just want to thank staff, Mr. Gonzalez and council for your support on this issue, very important issue, like I said. That was a great presentation by Chief Zina and Silva and her staff as well.
 and i would be more than happy to bring it for action next in the coming uh agenda item as well thank you thank you sir thank you everyone thank you and i just want to you know thank you and thank the rest of the council the city staff that and of course police department as we all realize the importance of transparency and safety and we've seen that it's uh safety for the officers safety for the community and again transparency so
 I'M THANKFUL THAT YOU BROUGHT THIS UP AND I KNOW YOU'VE BEEN DOING THIS SINCE DAY ONE AND MR. GONZALES FINDING A WAY TO DO THINGS THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO THE COMMUNITY IS IMPORTANT AND THANK YOU FOR DOING THAT YES SIR ABSOLUTELY I DO WANT TO MENTION ONE LAST THING MAYOR IF I MIGHT
 And it is that the PDCFT that was put together and the fact that the council champion that We had some members from the public come forward So I know that that was important to the council to include the public and engage them and get their input So as you heard today, they're very supportive of this initiative and it falls in line with a lot of your objectives in the PDCFT Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Mayor and I do see one of the speakers in the queue now. I may call him. Mr Raymond set up
 Mr. Mancera, if you press star six, sir, you can unmute your telephone. You have three minutes, sir. Mr. Ray Mancera, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Mancera, you're on mute, sir. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Ray Mancera, star six, please. Mr. Ray Mancera, I see you're in the queue. Good morning, sir. You'll have three minutes. You're back on mute, sir. There you go. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. Hello? Yes, sir. We can hear you.
 Thank you so much, Mayor. Thank you so much for and members of council.
 I had little technical difficulties, but I do want to, of course, say that I support and I was very thrilled to see this presentation. There was, of course, I'm sure there was a reason why it was not posted in discussion and action. And I'm glad Representative Anello brought that up, that maybe we can bring this item back on the form of action.
 But I do want to say that other than that I add myself as a member of LULAC to in favor of the comments that have been made in this matter, I do want to say one thing. Is that the cameras have always been able to clear up the he said, she said, whatever it was. Because the video and the images speak for themselves.
 And from understanding how the legal department works when there is a potential litigation, of course, the responsibility is to always deny because it has to be proven by the plaintiff. But what happens in this particular case is that when those cameras are rolling, they're
 and you can be a body camera or a vehicle camera, irrelevant of what you said verbally by anybody else, the images speak for themselves.
 So the cost of litigation obviously is going to go down. And the last thing you want to have is somebody, an officer that is not following the law and just becomes irate and starts taking matters into their own hands. I'm sure that's far in between cases in El Paso, and I hope that is the case. Yes.
 But as far as the plaintiffs, sometimes you say, well, he hit me or he handcuffed me and I didn't know why. But the video shows otherwise, that they were being belligerent and they were being aggressive. The...
 person that was being detained so it doesn't matter which way it is so the video speaks for itself so i was so glad when representative rivera brought this up many years ago and now we're coming now to consensus that indeed it's a cost-effective way for the city to reduce the number of lawsuits and to fine-tune exactly the training that has to be done to so our law enforcement are well equipped to handle situations and my god they are always under pressure to be
 to perform and to do everything for what is right. So I applaud them. But we also want to make sure that we are respectful for the people that once they are either going to be apprehended or arrested, that they know why it's being done. Thank you, Mr. Mancetta. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you again, City Staff. Thank you.
 representative and city council as we take priority as uh what um we feel is best for our community and how we keep the community safe and when we get elected public safety is our number one priority and i can see this council and has taken that as the number one party and thank you again and mr gonzalez i'll repeat this i don't like repeating myself but thank you for finding a way to make it possible thank you
 With that, Ms. Prine? Mayor, it is 10-17. May you recess the City Council meeting in order to conduct the Mass Transit Department board meeting? No, we'll do that one tomorrow. No, go ahead. I'm kidding. Thank you, Mayor. We have a motion to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 10-17 a.m.
 Good morning. This is a meeting of the Mass Transit Department Board for Tuesday, March 1st, 2022. Present are Board Chair Leiser and Board Members Shortsvine, Anello, Molinar, Salcido, Rodriguez, Rivera, and Lizrraga. Board Member Hernndez requested to be excused. It is 1018 a.m. And we begin with call to the public. This morning we have two members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Judy Ackerman.
 Ms. Ackerman, if you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. And Ms. Ackerman's topic is stop expansion of I-10 in downtown El Paso. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Yes.
 Good morning. Thank you very much. Yes, indeed. I appreciate this opportunity to speak to you today and share some information. First, though, some process issues. Today was pretty prompt as far as transitioning from the regular City Council meeting to the Mass Transit Board meeting. But previously, I've spent many hours
 waiting for that transition. So I suggest that you look into some other possibilities. Perhaps you could actually just start at nine with the Mass Transit Board meeting,
 or you could have it on a different day or some other options because in general it's difficult to impossible for the public to participate although today makes that not true so I'm so glad I was able to participate this morning. My main point though is to ask you if you've had a chance to look at the report that was
 commissioned and then published by the El Paso County Commissioners. There is a
 press release out by Commissioner David Stout and this is reference a independent analysis of the traffic issues and the need or in this case no need for the expansion of I-10 in downtown so this is really important
 independent review of the situation. I ask you to please take a good look at it. I did send a link to everyone by email and please do everything you can to stop the expansion of I-10 in downtown. It is not helpful for this city and I ask you to take every step you can possibly take to stop the expansion.
 is really important independent review of the situation. I ask you to please take a good look at it. I did send a link to everyone by email and please do everything you can to stop the expansion of I-10 downtown. It is not helpful for the city and I ask you to take every step you can possibly take to stop the expansion. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman.
 The next speaker is Mr. Steven Strummer. Mr. Strummer, if you're in the queue, star six, please. Mr. Steven Strummer. I don't see Mr. Strummer here. He did note that he would be appearing in person today. He's not in chambers, and I don't see anyone unmuting their microphone in teams.
 So Mayor, may we move to the consent agenda? Please, Ms. Pratt. Thank you. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by Mass Transit Department Board to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by board members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item hasn't been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. The Mass Transit Department Board may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Second.
 i'm sorry there was a motion made by and prior to taking the vote uh we need a revision to item two to request to excuse uh board member hernandez from the meeting please okay thank you so there is a motion made by board member rivera seconded by board member salcido to approve the consent agenda on that motion board member anello molinar aye salcido rodriguez yes
 Rivera? Aye. Liz Adegaard? Aye. Board Chair Leiser? Yes, ma'am. Aye. Thank you. And the motion passes unanimously. Board Member Shortsvine is not present. That brings us to the regular agenda to item number seven.
 And this is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to Trapeze Software Group Inc. DBA Vontaze for the 2022-0159 Wayside Signs for the Brio. Move to approve. Second. There is a motion made by board member Molinar, seconded by board member Salcido to approve on that motion. Board member Anello? Aye.
 Molina? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye. Board Chair Leiser? Yes, ma'am. Thank you and that motion passes unanimously. Board Member Shortsby not present. Item number eight is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0392 Miscellaneous Body Shop Supplies Rebid to RJ Border International LP, DBA Border International
 Second. There's a motion made by board member Rivera seconded by board member Molinar to approve item number eight on that motion board member Schwartzwein. Yes. Anello. Aye. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizada. Aye. Board Chair Leisur. Yes ma'am.
 Thank you. That motion passes unanimously. Item number nine is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0219, bus tire mileage rental to Bridgestone Americans Inc. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Board Member Salcido, seconded by Board Member Rivera to approve. On that motion, Board Member Shorthyne. Aye.
 Anelo? Aye. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizada? Board Chair Leaser? Yes ma'am. And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the mass transit agenda. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the Mass Transit Department board meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 and the Mass Transit Department Board meeting for Tuesday, March 1st, 2022 is adjourned at 1025 a.m. Thank you. Thank you. May we have a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 1026 AM. We're on page 5, item number 15. And this is discussion in action regarding a resolution that the city of El Paso appoint to the Camino Real Regional Mobility Authority Mary Beth Stevens for position 3, Laura M. Enriquez for position 5, and reappoint Joe D. Warty for position 1. RICK MACLENNAN.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Lizardaga to approve. Sorry the screen froze. I'll take a verbal roll call. Oh there we go. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next few items are the first reading of ordinances. These are items 16 to 21. Second. Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the first reading of ordinances. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 22.
 This is discussion in action on the request that the City Council ratify the award of municipal court software solicitation number 2013-211R to Justice Systems Inc. and that the City Council accept pricing for maintenance and support. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. End the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Item number 23 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0153, officials and assigners for sports to Tommy E. Hawkins, DBA Permian Basin, USSSA. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 23 on that motion.
 I'm sorry, the system froze again. I'll do a verbal roll call for this one. On the motion to approve item 23, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizada. And the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number 24.
 And this is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department Be authorized to issue a purchase order to Allen Brands Inc referencing contract 2019-474 vehicle off-site fueling Moved approved second second. There's a motion made by representative only not seconded by representative Salcido to approve on that motion call for the vote and
 In the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 25 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0375, janitorial services, police facilities to ace government services, LLC. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 25.
 That motion call for the vote Sure in the voting session and the motion passes Unanimously item number 26 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign the third amendment to ordinance number 019 146 the contract of sale between the city of El Paso and VT re development LLC motion approved second
 There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item number 26. There's no public comment on this item. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 29 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from C4 commercial to M1 light manufacturing south of Liberty Expressway and east of Global Reach Drive.
 Second. There's a motion made by Representative Lizada seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve on that motion call for the vote. There's no public comment on this item and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 30 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting special permit to allow for a governmental use building fire station at 24 0 5 McCrae Boulevard. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine to approve item number 30. There's no public comment on this item. Ma'am, did you want to take 31 as well? I think they're company items. What's that? I think they're companion items. What's that? 30 and 31. Item 30 is the McRae Boulevard. Item 31 is Mountwood. Okay, that's the old one. Okay, that's right. Call for the vote on item number 30. There's no public comment on this item. Okay.
 in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 31 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from R3 residential to C1 commercial and imposing conditions at 9640 Mountwood Drive. SPEAKER 2 ANDRS GONZLEZ- Motion to approve. SPEAKER 3 ANDRS GONZLEZ- Second. SPEAKER 2 ANDRS GONZLEZ- There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 31. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote.
 Representative Anello, thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay. Representative Anello, would you still want to reconsider 23? Representative Anello would like to reconsider item 23. You need to make a motion. Motion to reconsider. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 23. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 Motion passes were on item 23. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022 dash zero one five three officials and assigners for sports to Tommy Hawkins DBA Permian Basin USSS a No, thank you. I don't know who's here to answer questions or if they're still on the call too because we reconsidered So they might need a second But mayor, I guess I'm just looking at the backup There's not
 There's only the scoring sheet for the company who we're awarding to and so I know there's a 200 plus percent increase because of additional sports.
 but it's not really clear on the backup how many of those are additional what is creating that much of the additional cost and why and because the scoring sheets for the other companies are not available it's not clear why we're awarding to the only out-of-town company when the other two are local and so I don't know if this is that if they had the contract previously if a local company did if anybody can answer any of these questions
 Go ahead Mr. Fein. Edward Rodriguez with purchasing and strategic sourcing. There was only one bidder received. That's why there's no scores for other bidders. The increase is the majority of the increase is due to the increase in games that are being officiated. There was also a slight increase in some of the officiating but the increase in
 youth fast pitch tripled from 400 to 1200 and one category 16 and under sextupled from 200 to 1200. There was also a new category of fast pitch softball tournaments which includes pool play and bracket play which added 600 games to each category.
 okay thank you I see I see now I'm like this very small line it says that two people didn't receive them it just got confusing because the very last page just shows the last the page of bidders solicited but it the actual people who applied is like a very small line so thank you for that clarification is there a motion so I'll make a motion to approve second there's a motion made by representative Anello seconded by representatives Salcido to approve item number 23
 Motion approved. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number 32. This is discussion in action requesting city council support for submission of the application entitled Reclaiming Aerospace and Defense Manufacturing Dominance Through Frontier Technology. Motion approved. There's a motion by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve.
 Elizabeth Triggs, before a vote is taken, we have a presentation prepared that I'd like to go over with you all. IT, I'll go ahead and share my screen if Council is ready for that presentation. Go ahead, Elizabeth. Sorry, let me move to the start. Okay, so the purpose of this presentation today is to provide Council with an update on the City's participation in the West Texas Aerospace and Defense Manufacturing Coalition led by UTEP's Aerospace Center.
 And our upcoming submission of our phase two application to the Economic Development Administration's Build Back Better Regional Challenge, which is a competitive grant program intended to accelerate
 the growth of regional industry clusters. The application is due later this month on March 15th, and we've structured today's presentation to be an update, and we intend to return to Council at its next meeting on March 14th with a request for support for the application submission, including a more detailed look at
 at the budget and corresponding city match. So again today although it was posted as a discussion and action item, we'd like to just provide you an update and return to you on the 14th for your actual support. Very briefly before I get into the presentation just to kind of anchor us, what we'll do in the presentation is provide an overview of the challenge itself to provide a little bit of context to the discussion and the application we're looking to submit.
 And then share more detail and information about our proposal, including the major projects the coalition will undertake if we're successful in securing grant funding. And finally, look at the overall project budget to accomplish those projects for which the city specifically will be responsible.
 So a bit of context, the Build Back Better Regional Challenge, as a reminder, is a really historic investment by the federal government that is intended to support bottom-up economic development focused on advancing equity, that being really, really key and critical to the program. Also creating good-paying jobs, helping workers to develop in-demand skills, building economic resilience, certainly important in the wake of a pandemic, and then accelerating economic recovery.
 The challenge was originally announced in the summer of last year, and it is one of six programs that were made possible by the American Rescue Plan. Under that legislation, the EDA was provided a $3 billion supplement to accelerate economic recovery from the pandemic. Of that $3 billion, a third, or $1 billion, was allocated to the Build Back Better Regional Challenge. This is a new challenge, unlike anything that we've seen.
 It's a nationwide competition to accelerate the growth of industry clusters and ultimately we expect 20 to 30 regions to secure funding under this program. So the challenge, a little bit more about it, it really does seek to transform regional economies by enabling the development and implementation of a collection of collaborative, aligned and integrated projects.
 It's not intended to just undertake one project, but several. When you look at the application guidelines, the intent really is to enable a region to undertake three to eight projects per regional cluster to really think about growing a cluster from a very comprehensive perspective.
 The program guidelines also emphasize the importance of forming regional coalitions to support the development of implementation of these projects, securing industry support for their completion, with a focus on being very impactful and securing a strong shared vision.
 So each coalition is led by one coordinating entity. In our case, that is UTEP's Aerospace Center, which is a research facility that we're very lucky to have in our region that promotes education and research in aerospace and energy technologies. The challenge is organized into two phases. Under phase one, the competition was open again nationwide. In total, 529 applications from all 50 states and all five territories were submitted.
 So it was highly competitive. Of those 529 applications, 60 regions were chosen and awarded a $500,000 planning grant to help mature their proposals in preparation for submission to phase two of the challenge. Our coalition was one of the 60 regions chosen. So again, I just really want to highlight that. This was incredibly competitive. 529 total applicants, 60 were chosen, and we were one of those.
 We were one of two in Texas, the other being in the region surrounding Port Arthur, Texas, and focusing on the nursing shortage. So under Phase 2, 20 to 30 of the 60 regions chosen under Phase 1 will be selected for grants ranging between 25 to 75 million. However, there is an opportunity to secure a grant of up to $100 million, which is really what we're looking at.
 and applications are due on March 15th. So again, this is a massive opportunity unlike anything we've ever seen in the past, a huge opportunity to secure significant dollars to really accelerate the growth of a regional industry cluster. And so this slide again just really emphasizes how competitive this grant process was and shows the importance of the grant process
 How strong our application was to be one of those 60 of the 529 that was selected. Ultimately we were sub-awarded by UTEP a $240,000 planning grant to assist in pre-construction design of our portion of the project, which includes the 250-acre advanced manufacturing campus that will really be the hub for this regional industry cluster and will be located at the El Paso International Airport.
 The following slides go into a little bit more detail about our coalition's proposal, including a look at those portions of the proposal that the city is responsible for.
 So just at its very root, the vision of our proposal is to reinvent West Texas' historical roots in manufacturing to help close the America's gap in aerospace and defense manufacturing capabilities. And what's really unique here is that when it comes to aerospace and defense manufacturing, this is not something that can be done outside of the U.S. This is something that has to be done within the U.S.,
 So when we look at our regional assets on the next slide, we're really well positioned to be the center for that aerospace and defense manufacturing operation here in the U.S.
 In addition to UTEP's Aerospace Center, key partners include UTEP's Keck Center, which focuses on additive manufacturing and advancing the use of that technology in our region. And then also the El Paso Chamber, the city, and there are several other partners also participating that you'll see in the following slides.
 So again, our proposal seeks to catalyze economic growth for our region by focusing heavily on our existing assets, assets that set us really apart from the rest of the nation and provide us a competitive advantage. Those are listed here on the slide, the first being Fort Bliss and White Sands Missile Range, the latter of those two being the largest military base in the U.S.,
 Also leveraging the significant public and private investment in our region in the aerospace industry. We have to the east of us in southern New Mexico, Spaceport America, which includes Virgin Galactic and SpaceX. And then on the other side of us in west Texas, we have Blue Origin. So two really significant investments in the aerospace industry that anchor our region and place us in a really good position.
 to bring in suppliers to support those two operations. Additionally, of course, leveraging UTEP's key research facilities, including its Aerospace Center and the WM Keck Center. The latter of these, again, it focuses on the use and development of additive manufacturing technologies, a key technology in advanced manufacturing, including aerospace and defense.
 And then finally leveraging our own asset, the El Paso International Airport, which is geographically located at the center of our region, including, it includes more than 1700 acres of developable land and is in close proximity to key transportation networks and facilities. So again, those are really the assets that make up the core.
 of our proposal. And I think these are the things that really have propelled us forward and allowed us to be successful in securing that phase one grant. I think the other thing to point out is that this proposal, you know, it didn't come as a result of the challenge being announced.
 but it became like it came forward just as a way that we're further growing our existing partnerships. We have been very heavily focused with our regional partners
 on growing out the advanced manufacturing industry and looking at our local manufacturers as well as looking at other manufacturers and suppliers that we can attract and how we can grow those local manufacturers and then attract new ones as well. We've had a lot of success so far and the next two slides highlight some of those successes. The first of those is that we secured through Congresswoman Escobar
 Almost a million dollars for El Paso makes a National Center for Defense Manufacturing and Machining Initiative through federal appropriations to assist local manufacturings grow and scale.
 Recently, Council approved a $1.5 million match to the $1.5 million grant that the UTEP Aerospace Center won to also focus on building out a supply chain innovation network, which again is really focused on our local manufacturers and how we help grow and scale them and allow them to be in a position where they can take advantage of defense contracts. In addition, we've been working closely with the U.S.
 with El Paso makes which includes the chamber, the Keck Center and the Aerospace Center to conceptualize the 250 acre advanced manufacturing campus located at El Paso and an international airport including a facility for to help smaller businesses grow and that's been in the works long before the challenge. Council's seen some of those plans and you'll see a few renderings of what that campus could look like in the following slides
 But again, I think what's really important to emphasize there is that that planning began before this challenge was announced. So again, we have a deep connection to our regional partners. We have a commitment and a shared vision to advanced manufacturing. And really, you know, I think that us being successful in securing phase one of the grant is really the result of a strong interagency work effort.
 that is representative of our Communities of Excellence program. And that's why we were successful, is because we do have that program and that framework in place, which has guided us in securing these other results as well. So to talk a little bit about the current proposal, really when you look at the proposal, there are two large components.
 two large components to it. The first is the development of a West Texas advanced technology corridor, which stretches from El Paso all the way out to Culberson County, connecting us to the communities out in West Texas
 and ensuring that we really build out not only a workforce pipeline, but also training and research pipeline to advance the aerospace and defense as well as advanced manufacturing industry cluster. And then the second component is the El Paso MIGS Advanced Manufacturing District. Again, this is the advanced manufacturing campus that would be located at the El Paso International Airport. And I'll talk a little bit more about the components that fit into each of these, these
 these two larger components. With respect to the West Texas Advanced Technology Corridor, this component of the proposal is really being spearheaded by rural communities along the I-10 corridor involved in the region's space industry from El Paso to Culberson, so extending out to where Blue Origin is located. Here there's strong partnerships with private entities to include Blue Origin, of course, as well as Virgin Galactic in southern New Mexico.
 There's three primary projects that will fit into the West Texas Advanced Technology Corridor. The first includes a design studio space and support services at the Horizon Tech Accelerator in the city of Horizon. So, again, ensuring that we connect and have that pipeline of workforce research as well as training facilities to support
 you know, the growth of this regional industry cluster. The second of the projects in this particular corridor is testing facilities and technology support. At the Aerospace Center's Technology Research and Innovation Acceleration Park at Favens Airport, they do have a facility there, so looking at how they can grow and scale that facility. So, again, you know, it's growing existing partnerships that are already in place.
 and just looking at how we can really expand those partnerships. And then third, an unmanned aerial system flight test range in Torneo.
 And then for the second large component of the proposal is the El Paso Makes Advanced Manufacturing District. And this is really the portion that the city is spearheading and is responsible for in terms of the construction and the master planning. This consists of two primary projects, the first being the development of an innovation factory, and the second the development of the larger advanced manufacturing campus, which will include an industrial park,
 an Aerospace and Defense Supply Chain Innovation Network for manufacturers, which very much is being led by the Aerospace Center in the Chamber, and then the Aerospace and Defense Technologies Training Center. So talking a little bit more about what the facilities will look like from a physical perspective,
 So the first, the Innovation Factory, would be located at the El Paso International Airport's Cargo 4. This is a really unique model. It takes a  it looks at how we can assist businesses in co-locating in one place, so creating a space for innovative work and startups, allowing them to collaborate and, you know, encouraging that synergy and future joint ventures with one another.
 the project is to create a new infrastructure that will be accessible to all businesses that are here. Again, the focus is on aerospace engineering and advanced manufacturing. And the other thing that we're looking to do through this project is adopting a leasing structure that
 And then as they grow and need additional space and those kinds of things, it becomes a self-sustaining model because they can then move into other spaces at the airport, including the campus that we're looking to develop if we're successful in securing this grant. So when we talk about the larger facility, the advanced manufacturing campus, we're looking at 250 acres that the airport has set aside, right?
 on its property. It's master plan to co-locate again aerospace and defense as well as other advanced manufacturing opportunities. So an opportunity to really build out space for suppliers to the defense industry as well as the aerospace industry. And then there's the potential to minimize business expense again through shared infrastructure as well as that unique leasing structure that we spoke about.
 And so we're really excited about the opportunities here. And again, this is something that was in the works, regardless of whether we secure the grant or not. It's something that we'll continue to push forward. But if we're successful in securing this grant, then it's something that can really accelerate the growth of this facility and of the vision that aligns with it.
 So when we talk about the project budget in total to build out that innovation factory and campus, we're looking at in total $139 million, which is a large number. But it does include, again, construction, which includes phase construction.
 So the innovation factory, which is a 50,000 square foot building, and then also the construction of three phases of building in the advanced manufacturing campus, which includes several hundred thousand square feet of space for future businesses to locate and really create that synergy around the aerospace and defense manufacturing industry cluster.
 So what we're doing is breaking it apart. Again, the grant is up to $100 million, so clearly can't fund the entire project. So we're looking at how we really, again, kickstart this.
 and looking at how we can work with UTEP and our coalition to secure funding to complete phase one through the grants. That is our focus, is phase one. That would include the innovation factory for the smaller businesses and startups, as well as about 250,000 square feet of building space and infrastructure costs to get us going, and then some dollars set aside for lease and business assistance.
 to help local businesses either relocate to this place or to attract new businesses to our region. And so with that, this is the final slide again, the city is just the lead in master planning these two projects.
 and we'll be working closely over the coming weeks to finalize the project budget with UTEP as well as our other partners and then looking at returning to Council on the 14th to ask for your support and provide additional detail looking at that budget as well as the City's ultimate match.
 And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. So, Triggs, before you take questions, I just want to add, you know, one thing that I want to underscore one of the comments she made with regard to having a strategic plan in place and having advanced manufacturing as a priority and a goal. She also mentioned the Communities of Excellence Initiative, and this is a great example of that with the grants that we've been able to secure by working with other partners.
 Other examples, and several of you are aware of it, Mayor, you mentioned it as well with regard to like working with the nonprofits that set us up for winning three out of the last four years of the All-America City Award. The award's not the important piece. It's the communication and the engagement and the partnerships that we have with the nonprofit.
 the award solidifies that and shows that we have the proper framework in order to get those kinds of results another example is the thing we do thing the project we do rather with the with the kids and all the school districts the council took that initiative and took it a step further that was championed by the council with regard to having a youth services Advisory Committee in place
 I think Missanello you were the one that championed that particular initiative the council supported it and I think as a whole they came back and showed you a strategic plan so it was a very engaging type of initiative that we did with the schools and then as you know the culmination of that is him coming forward and doing the budget presentation to the City Council and of course we've also mentioned the partnerships we have and the training we've done together on Baldrige and Lean Six Sigma with the county with the school districts
 and how that has paid off in huge dividends with regard to the vaccine rollout and how that partnership has really made us better as a community. So I wanted to mention that because I think she was underscoring the fact that these partnerships are really paying off
 in huge dividends for us not only in dollars but in partnerships and and the the way we respond to different crises as a community so I did want to underscore that piece of it so tricks thank you for that very comprehensive report and yeah now council if you have any questions she can answer them or we can jump in and answer any questions you might have thank you mr. Gonzalez so mr. thank you for the presentation represents I'll see though followed by mail program
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say great presentation. Things like this really get me excited. I think that this is very forward thinking. And so seeing you all be able to plan forward and be able to take our community to a different level makes me really excited. So I have a question you have on, I think it's the last slide or the second to last. Where is this area that you're going to be developing for the businesses and any manufacturing to come and participate?
 Sure. So, I mean, really the hub will be located at the El Paso International Airport. So looking at setting aside 250 acres of vacant land there to set up the advanced manufacturing campus, which is located close to the cargo facility where the innovation factory will also be located. How many parcels or how many possible leases can be had there? So...
 the airport. So we're looking at a lot of things that we're looking at. We're looking at building a lot of space. Sam, if you're on the line and you have a better idea of that. But again, it's several 100,000 square feet of space that we're looking to build out through all three phases. Yes, Sam Rodriguez, director of the airport. So one of the things that representative
 the airport. And this this manufacturing district that we're looking at 250 acres that will be located like where the UPS and FedEx facilities are at across the street in George Perry. It's just a little bit of a stretch.
 it's on the secure side part of the requirements that we're trying to meet here is also the dod security requirements but we're also expanding and looking at the industrial park where tj max facility is being built across global reach and that whole area by 601 corridor is also looking to be developed from an industrial park standpoint this grant is a great opportunity because it'll allow us to start building some of the buildings and creating that space and so with
 the, with the master plan that that's being proposed and the grant opportunities, we're looking to build at a minimum two buildings that are going to be 100,000 square feet, um,
 located on this particular 250 acre development and based on the occupancy looking to expand that to three additional buildings and again with the anticipated success that companies are going to continue to grow and be self-sustaining align for that space for them to build to suit on future facilities that they will build themselves as the companies grow and expand within the area and the success that they have
 Well, that makes sense. It's really great news. I think that this council has been very forward thinking in how do we focus our
 Focus on economic development which internally bringing any industry here will help with taxes for us not to be paying individually per capita more taxes so we really focus on economic development and bringing companies so that they can take the lion's share of our taxes and we can really lower and Our taxes as a community so he's seen this project 250 acres I could see so many businesses coming and and being able to contribute to our tax and
 coffers. So very excited. Thank you. Thank you, Representative. I'll see you later, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you again, Mayor, and thank you again for city staff as well for this great presentation. I don't think we can fully understand how
 potentially transformative this initiative is going to be not just for our city, our community, but for our entire region. And it is that regional focus that makes this presentation and this opportunity so dynamic and so powerful.
 The scale and breadth of this initiative extends out to far west Texas, into the communities of Alpine, Fort Davis, Van Horn, throughout the I-10 corridor into the city of El Paso as well, as well as the county of El Paso. And it's because it dreams so big that it's going to have such an opportunity for transformative growth.
 When we talk about the 21st century and those industries that are occurring in our communities and occurring across the country, advanced manufacturing, aerospace and defense are one of the few industries that has to remain inside this country in order for our own national security defense.
 And by this community and this region taking this approach towards saying, if you wanna go and build those defense and aerospace industries of the future, come to this region. Come to El Paso, come to Far West Texas and build it out here. Why? Because we already have 80 years of industry and experience here within aerospace and defense between Fort Bliss,
 and bigs between White Sands Missile Range, Holloman Air Force Base, as well as new additions like Spaceport America. All of the research and engineering industry and background of UTEP as well as Blue Origin. We have the foundations to do something extremely transformative to bring great paying manufacturing jobs to this region.
 And it's that excitement, I think, that is really something that is going to have this opportunity to be transformative. Whether it is looking at the industrial base and the campus that we're planning on building at the El Paso International Airport. Why is that so important? Because now you have direct access to air cargo. You have direct access to rail, as well as direct access to Fort Bliss, Holloman, and White Sands, which is the largest contiguous
 parcel of land owned by the Department of Defense in this country. All of that is going to be accessed by this initiative.
 As President of the Rio Grande Council of Governments, myself and Representative Rivera, as well as the mayors of Fort Davis, Alpine and others had an opportunity last week to tour the Kirk, I don't know if I'm pronouncing that right, the Kirk research, Keck research lab as well as some of the UTEP facilities that they have at Fabens and others.
 We had a great opportunity to speak directly with Dr. Shidori to understand the transformative vision of this initiative. And it's something that is truly exciting for our region and our city. And it's not a pipe dream. We already have the ground
 foundations for this project to occur. We have seen it with the commitment with UTEP, with Dr. Chidori and others. We've seen with a commitment from our federal, state, and local representation. We've seen it with the other initiatives that we have from the federal government, the Department of Defense as well. And so this is something when you have our communities of this region working together hand in hand to bring something better for this community for the generations after us.
 And isn't that what the job that we're supposed to be doing here today to planting those seeds to watering those trees so that they bloom in generations after us. So I'm really, really excited about this. I did have one question for Ms. Triggs. We mentioned that El Paso Electric involvement is with this. Is that represented through the economic development grant that we have through the merger or is that an additional involvement?
 So it's an additional involvement. We're looking at just the partnerships that we're building now. And so I think you have a lot of support from private industry to include El Paso Electric. One of the things that I think I want to underscore is that as we undertake this massive project, what's really critical and important is that we build a campus that's also very much sustainable.
 And so we're looking at how we incorporate the work that we're doing with GM Motors that we announced recently, and then the work that we're doing with El Paso Electric and that partnership to really reduce our footprint as we build that out, and looking at how we can help our local manufacturers who look to move here and how they can also reduce their footprint.
 So all of that ties in ties into this this larger vision and project. And I think it's what makes it incredibly unique as well. That's great because I think when we have seen other communities across the United States really go and invest in advanced manufacturing, whether that is looking at automotive or other sectors, it really takes a village. It takes the public sector stepping up. It takes the private sector.
 like El Paso Electric and other utilities to step up as well to go and deliver on such a great opportunity for our region. And so, again, I'm happy to hear that. This is, again, a very transformative initiative that, again, has partners from our federal representation with Congresswoman Escobar, to our state delegation, to our federal...
 you know, local representation, whether that is out in El Paso County, El Paso City, as well as the counties of far west Texas. And it's just a really great opportunity. I'm very, very happy to be able to support this today. I just make one other quick comment in terms of the kind of forward thinking approach of this and what makes this region particularly unique as a major defense hub.
 If we can grow the advanced manufacturing capabilities for the Department of Defense, one of the things that a lot of people don't know is that this is a region that's also very extensive in terms of operational and developmental testing. So coupling advanced manufacturing with the ability to test, and it's not just being 
 For Fort Bliss or for White Sands Missile Range, many of the capabilities that get procured by the United States Army, this is a major milestone step in terms of their developmental and operational testing prior to the ultimate procurement. So kind of blending both advanced manufacturing
 Growing that space and that hub here in the region and already having the testing infrastructure in place puts us in a position That's unique to anywhere else in the United States Thank You Colonel and I think you're so correct on that and we've talked about this for many years that it's become a natural transition by being able to do that and for us not to take full advantage of our our
 relationship with our partners at Fort Bliss, White Sands, and everywhere else. It's something that we need to continue to grow. And like you just said, that is such a natural transition for us. And, you know, we have our space, and we're one of the few in the country, if not the only one, that has no limitations on aerospace. I know a lot of them have a limitation on how high you can go, and here we don't have any.
 So me thank you option of the letter. Thank you Sir of just add to that I mean it's it's amazing the straight the your presentation is fantastic and having been part of the the tour and prior to that have been met some of those local agencies that have connections and and and contracts with a big name.
 and NASA and defense titles. It was amazing, it was an amazing tour that I had prior to this. It's amazing to know that our own local homegrown person, people here in El Paso are involved with the Hubble telescope manufacturing parts. I mean, that was, that just blew my mind because all these little businesses are spread apart. And when we met with them,
 And they were presented with the idea of collectively getting together in one certain area. They were all for it. This project, like Mayor Pro Tem said, is amazing. And hopefully the El Paso area takes advantage of it because it's a once-in-a-lifetime dream that any community could have. And flanked by, like I like to tell people, flanked by Blue Origin on the west and
 Space galactic on the I mean on the east and space galactic on the West What more can you ask for because even they are starting that look towards us as well. Thank you so much for the presentation Thank you staff. Appreciate you. Thank you. And with that do we need a motion? There was a motion on the floor to approve made by representatives. I'll see those second Rivera we can take a vote
 Okay, there is a motion by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 33.
 Is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to exercise the three one-year options contemplated in the initial award of contract 2021-0811 for the job order construction and facilities construction with Alpha and Belize? Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Schorzwein to approve.
 Representative Ranallo has a question. So I just want absolute clarification. So if there is a need for additional $10 million, that's going to happen over time? Or it's possible that that could happen at one time? GENERAL DEMURO- Over five years. This is Jerry Demuro from the Capital Improvement Department. So in the first initial term, we awarded this contract in February of 21. And the initial term was for two years.
 for a total of four million we have currently encumbered four million dollars already so we couldn't use this contract without exercising these options until 2024. most of the contract is being used for public safety facilities but exercising these options also will give us the the capacity to do other public facilities as well as work at the airport we're not increasing the value of the contracts allocated we're not requesting
 additional funding be applied to this. It would all be funded by either the public safety bond, airport enterprise funds, or you know specific project funds dedicated to complete
 This contract, the reason we use this contract is because we can bring the contractor on board quickly. We don't have to wait six months to get a contract in place, which in this volatile climate on pricing is critical to not have those sorts of delays.
 I hope I answered your question. No, but I also didn't ask my question appropriately, Jerry. I apologize. So basically the contract is asking for $2 million a year, but it also says that the city manager would locate the funding source. So I'm confused because you just said it would be coming from the public safety bond. But that's not what the agenda item or the backup says.
 I guess my question though is just the two million dollars a year normally city manager it's a million dollars a year that you're allowed to issue without council approval and so you're asking for an additional million dollars a year without the approval of council and that's I guess that's where my question is will this come to council for the additional million dollars a year this is this action actually allocates a
 allows the allocation of 100% of the funding. So there will be no need to come back to council to request additional funding. In this contract as well, any task orders that we issue over $500,000 comes back to council. We have a couple of those coming in the coming weeks. So we're asking that there are options that are already approved. We're asking for us to exercise those options so that we can continue with our work.
 So Jerry, I think that to her question, this allocates the dollars, but in terms of the limits, the limits stay the same. And if they approach the $500 or $1 million threshold, they would come back to Council. Correct. That was her answer. Over those thresholds, rather, I should say. Yeah, if I can add, San Rodrigo City Engineer, this is, in essence, an on-call construction contract. It's a job order contract and it's an on-call contract that allows us to basically task on the task-by-task basis.
 uh
 the project. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on right now. We have a lot of projects that we're working on
 the capital plan as has been approved is what allows the city manager to set up those budgets. And so those budgets are allocated on a per project basis. And those are obviously approved by city council and then
 as part of the capital plan approvals that are taken to council for award. So again, this contract, again, is strictly an on-call contract that allows us to be more expeditious and more effective in executing our capital plan. And what's being presented to you today is...
 And this is allowing us to use additional capacity that was approved originally for years 23, 24, 25 is allowing us to use them now because of the way that we've been executing these projects. We've been more effective and we need the capacity to continue with additional projects moving forward. Okay. Thank you, Sam. I appreciate that. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. It's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein to approve item 33.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Council, may we have a motion to recess until noon for call to the public? Motion. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting until noon. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess until noon at 1120 AM. Laura, are we finishing yesterday's meeting?
 Yes, ma'am. I don't think we have enough time between now and noon to take care of the work session. It's exactly noon. Hello? Ms. Prine, we have a quorum. Yes, Mayor. May we have a motion to reconvene? So moved. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The regular city council meeting is back in session at 12.01 PM. We now go to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business. Or may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have seven members of the public that signed up to speak.
 During call to the public, the first person is Mr. Ron Como. He will be followed by Barbara Valencia, Benjamin Alba, Steven Strummer. Mr. Como's topic is City of El Paso Animal Services. Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. I'd like to take a minute to look back in history. Ramon's first speech was, excuse me, interim director speech, we saved more lives than ever before in 2020.
 My first comment was is that was untrue and proof is in the city shelter reports, okay? I also stated in that that he was not qualified to be the director eight to ten months ago I stated that we were losing good employees because of a toxic work environment Suggested an anonymous survey to find out what's really going on in the shelter look where we are now eight months ten months later We're in a world of hurt there was a discussion about leaving strays on the streets Which was denied by animal services which can be proven?
 by the comments by the people that voted for you all that were posted on El Paso lost and found One of the things I'd like to point out is is we have not received and has not been posted Animal service shelter reports in the last three months. Okay back eight to ten months ago I begged you guys to do a fact check ask for facts ask for proof of what we were saying I asked for you to prove have I
 The shelter proved what they were saying and I told you, I begged you to ask me for proof of what I've been saying. I'm still asking. Three months ago we discussed or two months ago we discussed the shelter being overrun with strays. We discussed that we needed a new facility because of the improper way the shelter's been run. We are overcrowded. Now we have a situation where a dog was shredded Friday by two other dogs in OK because of two reasons.
 One, the dogs were put in a kennel together, too large, were they smaller? Two, the bigger dogs were supposed to have been checked for behavioral. That was never done. So we have an issue there. The other problem we have, we had a two-month-old puppy that was killed, and I'm using killed, not euthanized, because of possible aggression, a possible bite. A two-month-old puppy, who makes these kind of decisions? Not a qualified person.
 And, you know, that kind of goes back to my conversation last meeting of them hiring loyal people instead of qualified people. Our behavioralist has an online degree, not a real one. He's had no basic training, real training in life. We need to get rid of the director.
 The city needs to move forward. You are now being looked at across this country. Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. Your three minutes have expired. The next speaker is Barbara Valencia. Her topic is the deeper the hole in animal services. She will be followed by Benjamin Alba. Good afternoon, Ms. Valencia. You have three minutes. Thank you.
 When the biggest local supporter of El Paso Animal Services no longer supports current leadership at Animal Services, it's time for the Mayor and City Council members to wake up, take immediate action, and remove this leadership. El Paso Citizens for Shelter Reform has come to the realization Animal Services is in dire straits due to this leadership. Under current Animal Services leadership, there has been a 53% increase in euthanasia.
 Let me say that again. With this leadership, a 53% increase in euthanasia. Pura Rapazos Citizens for Shelter Reform,
 The decision to open up admission with no plan to get animals out was and is irresponsible and detrimental to the animals in the shelter. It's paramount to make necessary course corrections because it's too important not to. The deeper the hole, the harder it is to get out of it. Last month was the first month ever that the majority of animals euthanized were euthanized for behavior issues. Falsely claiming an animal has issues in order to kill them is unacceptable.
 leadership at Animal Services has chosen to label three-month-old puppies and nine-week-old kittens aggressive to justify euthanizing them, and that is cold-blooded murder. Animal Services, under current leadership, continues to break local and state laws. Title VII Animal Ordinance regarding Animal Welfare Organizations, including Animal Services, states all dogs and puppies over the age of four months of age that are adopted to a new owner shall be spayed and neutered.
 A young couple adopted a female husky and they were told by animal services that the dog had been spayed. It's blatantly obvious this dog was not spayed. Here are her puppies that she gave birth to a few weeks after being adopted. It was a shock to the couple when she started giving birth. How many pregnant and unspayed females has animal services adopted out to unsuspecting adopters? Dogs that will add even more puppies to our already oversaturated pet population.
 This is nothing but gross negligence on the part of animal services leadership. Using the excuse of the pandemic to justify all the failures by this leadership needs to stop. What is happening to the animals in our community and on our shelter have nothing to do with COVID. Forcing animals to eat shit covered dog food is not the fault of COVID. Every day this leadership remains at animal services, the hole gets deeper and deeper. Mayor and city council members,
 Are all of you waiting for the hole to get so deep we will never be able to get out of it? If you are, we're just days or weeks away from that happening. Thank you. And I will remind the speakers please. Thank you. Please do not use profane or abusive language and please limit your comments to the departments and not personal attacks. The next speaker is Benjamin Alva. His topic is cats and dogs in El Paso Animal Services.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Alba. Hi. You have three minutes. Many of us, for the longest time, have provided much of our time to help control the cat population in El Paso. We do this because of the love we have for these animals. It is a very time consuming and tedious process, and it's not easy to trap, to TNR a feral cat. It's not easy.
 The city of El Paso neighborhoods and neighbors have benefited from this, from the TNR. We were able to set up appointments with El Paso Animal Services, take the cats in, then pick them up the next day, and then return them to their colonies. This was working out great. The cat population was finally getting lower. We were even...
 We were even doing this during the pandemic. Animal services, just like many organizations and businesses, just had to do some minor adjustments due to COVID, but we were still spaying and neutering the animals, sending them to animal services. However, for some strange reason, this process was stopped.
 We were no longer able to set up appointments and no longer able to pick up the cats from Animal Services ourselves to be returned to their colony. We just don't understand why this process stopped. It was working out great. It is now up to animal control officers to return the cats to their colony. We just did not understand why we had to go.
 through this new process when we as citizens can do it ourselves for you, relieving work from the animal control officers to do other duties such as helping an injured or loose or abandoned dog or cat. Many of us notice that this new process is just not working. The reason being is hardly anyone is seeing these cats being returned to its colony.
 Therefore, people are spreading the word not to take these community cats to animal services because they are afraid these animals are being euthanized or taken outside of their colony. We need to go back somehow.
 to the way we had the controlling of the cat population. That is, let us make appointments. We can then take the cats down. Thank you, Mr. Alba. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Steven Strummer. He will be followed by Sabrina Soto, Lisa Turner, Jason Jones. Mr. Strummer's topic is mask wearing. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, Laura. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir.
 I just, it's hard to talk after all this. I wanted to say your policies with masks, vaccination, you rock. Government in Austin, it's a waffle. It's a waffle policy. It's not leadership, but you have shown fortitude and strength in a time of very sharp difficulty.
 I want to thank you for that because this is life or death. This is really, really serious. And I really appreciate it that you say, you know, you have to be vaccinated. I love it. You can't just wear a mask. That's the leadership so sorely missing in Austin. It's just not there. They caucus and I don't know what else Austin does, but you rock. And yeah, okay.
 You're not a perfect administration, nobody ever will be. But I love it. I can come and I can speak. Where else? El Paso. I can't do this in New York City. Where else? El Paso. And I've heard good things about you, Miss Anello. I'm a good friend of yours. I've heard great things. And that's good because other cities, no, they're upset, they're in violence and whatever. But here,
 At least I have that leadership. I don't have that waffling of the governor, the lieutenant governor, and the attorney general. I don't have that. I have straight, sound leadership on COVID. It's needed. It's really necessary. And I'm hoping the media will really come down on this and say, hey, get vaccinated, wear the mask. Vicente Fox was here, but he didn't take that time. And that's what's missing.
 your soundness in this, that rates. That to me is one of a kind. And I will not let anybody tell me otherwise. I don't know about other, but it means. Because otherwise people have fear. Fear is not good. I appreciate you sir, your leadership in the Northeast and Ms. Lazarga as you as well. That you make one straight message
 You don't waffle. That is awesome. We need that. I want to thank you for your time here, each one of you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Sabrina Soto. Ms. Soto, star 6, please to unmute your telephone. Ms. Soto's topic is denying police funding for cannabis prosecution. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon City Council. Good afternoon. We are only 31 days away till New Mexico starts recreational sales. Everyone knows cannabis isn't going anywhere. It's here to stay. Please stop arresting, prosecuting and continue to give us criminal records over cannabis. Especially when this plant helps us, whether it be medicinal or recreational purposes.
 I know there's a lot of people that still think of stigmas when they hear anything about cannabis. But the truth is that there has been so much research done, and it is time for people to start acknowledging the benefits from consuming cannabis.
 We're coming up on the Cannabis March. Come out and meet the cannabis community that is right here in El Paso. You'll meet some pretty amazing people. Again, if this funding is approved, it is going to do more harm than good for the community of El Paso. I strongly suggest you deny this increased funding request. Thank you, City Council. Have a good day. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner. Her topic is rent control. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. You'll have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. I never thought I'd be up here talking about this subject. But I, like a lot of people, are getting hit with these greedy rent increases. Mine was 25%, which is basically a $200 increase. What does that mean to my budget? Well, Mr. Mayor, this was the year I was looking for a new car. That's no longer in my budget. That's what it means. It means the small organization who runs a food bank
 If they call, I have to tell them no. That's what it means. You have to figure out a way to make sure that those of us who rent, because we're citizens, we pay taxes too, we don't get any kind of exemptions. We are citizens. We need your protection from these landlords who probably aren't even in this town, who just see us as a money fountain. I can afford this.
 but I have to cut other things out, like the food bank I support. They call, I get them whatever they want. The new car, forget that. That's gone. You know, I don't know. I mean, what about those who can't afford this? What are they going to do? I mean, I have to seriously consider now whether I will continue to live in El Paso or move somewhere else because of the utilities, the rent increases.
 And it's just not my income that you lose. It's those seven doctors in the community that I see that the VA covers. So every time you push one of us out of the city, you lose. I don't, you know, a fair increase, I understand. But a 25% increase in my rent, I don't understand that. And I'm not getting anything for it. I'm getting nothing for it. Their pockets are getting filled, but I get nothing for it.
 So I'm going to ask you all to figure out if there's something that we can do, that you can do, and if you can point me to whoever is in charge of fair housing. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. The final speaker is Jason Jones. Mr. Jones' topic is gringo theory bar and the ongoing noise nuisance. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, everybody.
 Thank you for taking time to hear me. And I appreciate everybody who called me back after the last meeting to talk about this issue. It is ongoing, and I'm trying to work my way through it and trying to go forward. But today, instead of what I played last time, I got something totally different. This is what I experience, you know, in my house, laying on my bed, trying to sleep at night. So...
 Hopefully this will come through. Thursday night. You can see on the screen the graphic equalizer app that I used on a different phone and how it's actually noting the sounds that are coming through from outside. Unfortunately, this speaker cannot accurately reproduce the low frequencies.
 I mean, that's how pervasive the sound is. It's just can't really play it. But it's frustrating. And this will go on six nights a week until 2 a.m., 2 a.m. And the bar owner, he completely understands what's going on. I spoke to him for eight months. He's a bad operator. He doesn't care. He puts his profits above everyone else in the community.
 Okay, he would rather buy another bar to make more money, you know the time I'm talking to him about how bad it is in our Neighborhood he puts a giant sign on the side of his building that says be a good person How do you how do you live with yourself when you do something like that? That's what we have in my neighborhood and and that building is just not suited for bass To be played as it is it is not I
 This sound is pushed out throughout my entire neighborhood. I'm at 450 foot from that building. There are people who are at 800 foot that hear it in their houses. I'm just the new guy in a neighborhood. I'm the most upset. And I have a job that gives me enough leeway to just take off and do stuff like this. But it has caused me to call in sick people.
 because I was too exhausted to go to work. And this has been over a year now of dealing with this and trying to work with this owner, but he doesn't want to work with me. He doesn't want to work with the community. He's not interested in any of that. So please help with this new noise ordinance. Thank you. CHRIS RODGERS, JR.: Thank you, sir. CHRISTIE WOODARD, JR.: That concludes call to the public. And we have a motion to adjourn. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, March 1st, 2022 is adjourned at 1223 PM. Council IT needs about five to ten minutes to switch over to yesterday's work session. We also need to exit this team's meeting and return to yesterday's meeting link prior to convening. Thank you.
 It does now, right? So it's not... So, okay. So I have, with these four, I have a flash drive video, like this video I just played. And that needs to be played really on a home stereo to be able to hear that bass. And just...
 and if it's played by a judge on her PC or his PC so for these four I have four vials of course that clip that I played the last council meeting that's on here another Saturday night where there was racial slurs and two of these like I played here those are the worst
 .
 There's four folders and there's one file in each folder, so they're dated to correspond with the complaints. So they can still take notes? That's it. I didn't know about that. Well, they have to be, they need to be... Right, well, that's fine. I wasn't sure how you were doing. Some people were like, are you ready to submit these? So I'm going to take a graph. I do need that. Okay, can you go over there? Stop this receipt. I'll get this copy. Thank you so much. Okay. So I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph. I'm going to take a graph.
 Okay. Yeah, there it is. This part of the... Mayor, we're ready to reconvene the work session. Can we have a motion to reconvene? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the work session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the work session for Monday, February 28th, 2022 is adjourned, is reconvened on Tuesday, March 1st, 2022 at 1229 p.m. Yes, sir. Please. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Yes.
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, chapter 551, subchapter D. To discuss executive session item four, Celia Sanchez et al. versus City of El Paso, Texas, matter number 17-1026-8443 under 551.071, consultation with attorney. It is 1229 PM.
 There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The work session is back in session at 1.53 p.m.
 Alternate Mayor Potem Lizada, we're on EX4. There's no action. Thank you. There's no action on EX4. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the work session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The work session for Monday, February 28, 2022, is adjourned on Tuesday, March 1, 2022, at 1.53 p.m. Thank you. Thank you all. Have a great day.