good morning mayor good morning how are you good thank you good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday march 15 2022 present in council chambers our mayor leaser representative anello representative molinar representative rodriguez representative rivera representative lizada representative shortsline is joining virtually today
 And Representative Hernandez has requested to be excused. It is 9.01 a.m. And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and make sure your microphones are muted in teams and rise for the invocation delivered by police chaplain Robert Hemphill Jr. Good morning to the honorable mayor, Mr. Oscar Leaser, council members, city officials,
 dignitaries and members of the community please bow your heads as we pray heavenly father we come to you today asking for your guidance with wisdom and support as we begin this meeting of the el paso city council to engage in meaningful discussion fill us master with your grace as we make decisions that might affect the citizens of el paso texas and the surrounding communities and continue to remind
 All we do here today and all we accomplish is for the service of humanity. This we ask in your holy name. Amen. Pleasure seeing you two days in a row also, sir. Good to see you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Christian, will you lead us in the federal allegiance, please? Federal allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. Thank you. Please have a seat.
 Thank you, everyone. Thank you, Council, for being here this morning. I think that it's very appropriate today that as we see what's going around in the world, that we have a moment of silence for peace on earth and peace all over this world. I think it's important that many people have been suffering and continue to suffer. And if we could all pray for peace and no more suffering.
 Thank you. And one last thing I'd like to say is we see the numbers for the coronavirus continue to go down and we see the hospitalization going down, ICU going down. I think it's important to continue to know our surroundings, continue to wash our hands, wear our mask and exactly
 the uh... be aware what's going on i think uh... the city staff the county and all our partners have done an incredible job making sure that our city of shape and uh... we do not continue to make sure that uh... as uh... things change very quickly that were prepared and and continue to take care of ourselves thank you and without mr yes sir that brings us to the mayor's proclamation
 And that will be Dolores Anguiano, Recognition Day. Thank you. Whereas Dolores Anguiano, a resident of El Paso, Texas, was born in 1935 in Smelter Town, Texas to immigrant parents from Mexico, struggled through poverty throughout her life. Her mother worked picking cotton, her father worked in construction, and both struggled to get food on the table, came from a family of six children, and entered into a marriage at a very young age.
 And whereas Ms. Anguiano started her college career 30 years ago after graduating from Stephen H. Austin High School in 1954, later enrolled at New Mexico State University, but struggled to keep up with her studies due to many hardships, kept a full-time job at White Sands Missile Range for 35 years while attending college, and later worked as a substitute teacher at both Socorro and El Paso Independent School District for 17 years until 2016, while also taking care of her family.
 And whereas Ms. Anguiano has one daughter and two sons who also have children. Separated from her husband years ago and received much support from the UTEP community including her advisors at the Center for Accommodations and Support Services throughout her college career. And whereas Ms. Anguiano navigated through different degree plans starting with Chicano Studies and finally landed in Multidisciplinary Studies, struggled with paying for classes and finally graduated without debt from the university.
 And whereas Ms. Anguiano's dedication and determination finally led her to graduate from the University of Texas at El Paso with a degree in multidisciplinary studies in December 2021 at the age of 86, has been encouraged by her college professors to continue with her education and earn her master's degree, thought about volunteering in the community, but put any future plans on hold due to falling ill.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that March 15th, 2022 shall be known as Dolores Anguiano Recognition Day. Congratulations. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for having me here this morning. I want to thank my family at UTEP for making it possible all these years that I've been
 that I took my classes at UTEP for more than 30 years. It was because I didn't get the proper counseling. But finally, I did get my good counselor, which was Julio Rogers. He said he's the one who make my last degree. I had about four or five degree plans, and I never did complete them all.
 but I never failed them. It was not that I failed. It was because I didn't want to get out. And I enjoyed my years at UTEP. I have all my family there, and I want to thank CAS, the CAS people for helping me throughout my classes there at UTEP, and Chicano Studies people. Thank you very much for having me here, and God bless you. Thank you, and congratulations.
 And we'll take a group photo after the next proclamation. This is it. We're only going to have one today. Yes. So congratulations. I hope he goes to a minor game this afternoon at 5. They've got a playoff game. So maybe we'll see you there. But congratulations, and you look great. I was going to tell Representative Molinar that you look a lot younger than me, so that's a good thing. Thank you. Thank you.
 At this time, Council will take a photo with the honoree. And for the record, Representative Salcido is also present in chambers. Yes.
 And as previously noted by Mayor Leaser, the proclamation for Kayla Gomez Day will be rescheduled until May. Thank you. Council, per the rules of order, you may not use any electronic devices other than the desktop computer. Once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item, and please refrain from side conversations of the day while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining us virtually, please make sure you...
 Your microphones are on mute to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Good morning. Good morning. I move to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 17, item 19, move after item 11, per Representative Rivera. Second. We have a motion and a second. I'm sorry, who was the second? Representative Anola. Thank you.
 The motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Anello to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Rivera? Aye. It says aye. And Representative Shortswine? Yes. Thank you. End the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 11. Thank you.
 This is discussion in action to direct the city manager to apply for all available funding opportunities Including arpa funds in order to fund the phase 2 of the body worn camera program for the El Paso Police Department This item was placed by representative The previous
 I had placed on March 1st council meeting the item is straightforward and Greg city manager to seek in any and all funding opportunities including our funds To fund phase two of the body worn cameras at the last council meeting all of you showed Showed and voice support for the report the funding and so along with the item 19, which Please ask for your support again
 Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Do we need to see the presentation from Mr. Cortina's first? Yeah. So we need to move 19 ahead of the Senate? Yes, 19. I'll move 19 into the record. We can take them together if you'd like, sir. Yeah, okay. We can take them together. If you'd like, item 19 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager or his designee to establish appropriations in the amount of $6.6 million of the American Rescue Plan Act grant funds.
 Go ahead. You can do your motion now. Second. Mr. Cortina? Good morning, members of the council. So at the last council meeting, you all saw the presentation from the police department on what their plan is for the body-worn camera program. The resolution from item number 19 will allocate $6.6 million from our American Rescue Plan Act funding. This will fund the 700-plus cameras and the video recording equipment necessary to provide for our patrol officers.
 D on Mac and chief of CS and chief Xena are on the line if you all have any questions You all did receive that full brief at the last presentation at the last council meeting that presentation So I'm sure they'd be happy to go through that again. If you all have any other questions I know that we did spend over an hour on it And police department so I don't know if everyone wants to see the presentation again, okay, go ahead I
 I know this was in the presentation, but we don't need to go through all of it. I just wanted to be very clear because I've had a lot of follow-up questions from the last meeting. I know there's a rollout plan, but exactly which officers by the end of the plan would be receiving the body-worn cameras and if that would also include the officers under code enforcement? Good morning, Assistant Chief Silva with the El Paso Police Department.
 So the 700 cameras are only going to be distributed to patrol and traffic officers, officers that are related to a patrol function. And Chief, how many officers, including code enforcement, are on the ground?
 There's well over 700 that are on the ground, but to meet the needs of the grant that's part of this program, we were only entitled to utilize patrol and traffic officers. So code enforcement would not be a part of this particular portion of the funding. No, I understand that. I'm just asking in total how many officers are on the ground, wanting to know what the gap is between this grant and what we still need.
 Well there's 1100 total officers on the department so we're always called up to service at any particular moment depending on if there's a major event but the 700 would meet the patrol status. Okay and so we can expect that the additional 400 plus will be applied through in the next two to three years along with this grant for those additional officers?
 If grants become available for somebody that's not in the patrol function, yes. Yeah, I know every year there is a grant available through the Council of Governments, so I would like to see those to be able to fill that gap. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Molinar, followed by Representative Salcido. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, everyone.
 Like to make it just a few comments once again. Thank you to representative for bringing these items forward Thank you for a city manager for the due diligence on getting the appropriate funding I know this is only a short term route. However, I would like to say a couple of things reference technology and
 prior to buying all these cameras that we need. And of course, I'm sure everything is going to be done well through a purchasing department. But I would hate to us to purchase a significant amount of cameras at one time that the rollout is not going to be until 2023 exactly. And so technology does improve over time quickly.
 And so that we need to be sure that we're cognizant of what we're doing and how we're spending that money on Exactly what items are being done if you know anything about body cameras They've been developed and over developed pretty soon. We're gonna have a small camera very small That's going to be
 You know like a lapel camera and it's not gonna be that big heavy thing that you have to use in front of your Chest like we've normally seen in videos and movies these days But I would like to make sure that we are doing the right thing for our community the right thing for our police officers and Make sure that we're ahead of the technology curve. Thank you One of the benefits to the way that the police department is gonna roll out this program in terms
 And this was included in the presentation and Chief Zena can speak to a little bit more if she has any additional comments. But one of the benefits to the way it's being rolled out is this is being done through a lease. And so we're leasing the equipment. So there's no purchase involved, which is an excellent benefit because we don't have to replace 700 plus cameras at the end of the life. So that's a benefit. So as technology changes, once the lease ends, absolutely we'll be able to upgrade and make sure that we're up to date with that equipment technology.
 Thank you. Not only that, it also saves quite a bit of money by doing the lease option as well. Yes, and that is a great concept, and thank you very much for that. Thank you, sir. Yes, Mr. Moyer, just to add to that, you're absolutely correct. Technology adapts and changes very quickly. These particular leasing programs that we're looking at, at the third year of the cycle, we change out all the count months.
 so we get it we get an upgrade every three years all right chief philo thank you very much for that information great job thank you thank you sir now we have representatives of cedo followed by representative rodriguez and mayor pro tem short point
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you to Representative Rivera for again, bringing this item up. I think it's important for transparency and accountability for our community. Thank you for the city staff, and also city manager for bringing this forth and looking for funding. I do want to have a conversation a little bit more on the site note nothing to do with the police officers. I know, rep and I will just mentioned code enforcement. I know court enforcement and also inspectors do are have the right to give citations. And
 I think a lot, well, I speak on behalf of my office. I've heard a lot of complaints in the past in just protecting the future for our community, for transparency. I would like to see how it would look for us to have body cameras also on code enforcement and inspectors. If I'm not mistaken, and you all can answer this question legal, do those citations go to court?
 Kristen Karen from the city attorney's office. Yes, ma'am The the notice is a violation that code enforcement issues do go to court. Those are class C misdemeanors. I
 Okay, great. So just kind of hearing that I think all across the board protecting the community I think it is important for anybody that deals with the community and it has to do with safety and in Being transparent. I think that I do like to motion For city manager and staff to go look at how that will look not necessarily within this funding or you know, I
 Planning for the future but to direct the city manager to look into how that implementing code enforcement and also Inspectors into getting body cameras to get done. Yes. I'll second that motion. I'll second the amendment Oh
 Thank you. I'm just curious really quick, Kristen, if you could answer this question. How are we going to be working as far as our legal department and the police department for open records requests? I know that those are going to be coming in regularly and a lot. So is there going to be a new department created, a new position, somebody that can handle that directly? Do you have any idea of that?
 Currently our office has our open records coordinators. We have four coordinators right now and as if there are increases we would seek to increase probably staffing but Mrs. Neiman would be making the plan for how we would address any increase in open records requests. We currently do handle our
 all open records requests. Last year we had almost 11,000 open records requests overall and our staff has handled those very, very professionally and efficiently. We already do, there are some body cams already out there. When we receive a request that includes video footage, we provide that information as allowed by the Texas Open Meetings Public Information Act.
 Okay, so I know last time you all mentioned that I Guess the highest percentage of the open records requests were coming from the police department So do you think this is going do you foresee this increasing because of the body counts? There is a likelihood that people would be interested in receiving more Video footage and that you know that does take a little more staff time because of the review that's required and
 Good morning, Assistant Chief Silver again. We also built in staffing into our plan because we know that the police department will be the ones doing the work to pull the videos and to cloud share that information. So we've already built that into the plan to increase our personnel to do that kind of work. Okay, thank you. That's my only question. Thank you, Chief. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Mayor Pro Tem, Schwartzbein? Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm very excited about this project and want to again thank the tireless public advocate and City Council representative that we have with Henry Rivera for Representative Rivera really pushing this through and making sure that his passion
 for our community, both in terms of those who protect our citizens as well as our residents, really comes through. And so I want to thank again, Representative Rivera, for really taking the lead on this important item. I am curious to hear a little bit more about, from both Representative Rivera and Representative Salcido, about her proposed amendment as it relates towards code compliance, other officers as well. Mayor Mann.
 On that, I believe we're working in phases. I know that I had been working with phases. This is phase two, and eventually, I believe, Chief, Ms. Mackin is on the line. Eventually, phase three is hopefully getting everybody else fitted for the camera, including code enforcement and anybody else that's missing, detectives. I'm not sure. Ms. Mack, are you on? Yeah.
 Yes, sir. Good morning, Dion Mack, Deputy City Manager of Public Service. Our next phase would be as Assistant Chief Zena spoke about,
 including any of the detectives and others who are not a part of the ongoing day-to-day. Also remember that we're having this plan continue to grow with the growth of the force. And so the presentation you saw a few weeks ago that included over 200 officers over the next few years, we're also including that within the plan.
 We have not had a conversation regarding code enforcement and any of our code folks, including being included within this plan. I have not seen that in any of our settings and models. They do not carry weapons. So it is something that we would need a few weeks and some time to really be able to investigate and really be able to talk to you more from a more educated standpoint in terms of,
 what that would do for us and what we think that would add to the work that we're doing out in the field and our engagement with our customers. We do have over 140 code enforcement officers across various departments, most of which are in the public safety portfolio. So essentially, we're looking at code compliance, but on a separate phase, not this first tranche.
 Absolutely, sir. And I would say that if we were talking about priorities, our priorities absolutely would be the detectives that
 Chief Silva spoke about, we are going to continue to look for funding. And I think that that would be our highest priority, ensuring that any officer who happens to be in the field and engaging with the public in a professional capacity has the same equipment available to them regardless of the amount of time they're engaging. And then I would suggest that if there are resources beyond the growth plan, if there
 to look at how this might add value, but I'm not quite sure how it does without some study. And I think just to touch a little bit upon Representative Molinar's point, I do think that, you know, there's evolving technologies, right, and different procurement processes. Does the city go and...
 purchase all new cameras do they look at a lease program or something which gives us the opportunity to upgrade after obsolescence after three years or whatever it is so i just think as this process moves along i think that should be open about what is really like the sort of emerging best practices for police departments when they go and fit our officers with this technology
 That was pretty much my comments right now. Again, I want to thank Representative Rivera and urge City Council to pass this. Thank you, Representative Salcedo. It helps our community. Thank you, Representative Salcedo.
 I just wanted to make a quick comment. I don't want to really distract too much of the accomplishment that we're here today. I want to thank again Representative Rivera for bringing this item. This is very important. My amendment was more to look at a study of looking into court enforcement, but more importantly also inspectors because they are the ones that deal with our public and that's to protect both of them, both inspectors and our customers. I've heard complaints on both ends and so I want to make sure that as we're looking
 As we approach this, I think a body cam will be a great solution, especially when these citations do go in front of court. So I think that that brings transparency to the whole picture as a whole. So that's just to share a little bit more of what my amendment is. So it's more for a study to see how we can implement in a later phase. Thank you. Thank you. And I think...
 Silly important as we see and as we were going to take a vote in a minute that you know, it's This has a lot to do with the safety for the community, but also the safety for our police officers And I think that's been as council knows as an elected official. That is our number one priority for public safety to our community and also to our
 officers so i thank uh city council i thank city manager for finding a way to fund it and also looking at how we can keep up with the technology as we all do know that technology changes uh overnight so i think that's so important so representative i know you've been working on this since the day you got on in the office and i'm glad to see that we'll be able to move that forward and make sure that our community continues to be a safe place to live
 Representative Rivera. Yeah, I just have one question. And Representative Salcedo, she's referring to inspectors. Are you referring to the detectives or you?
 i'm referring to um either the building inspectors anybody that deals with the public the customer so building inspector that's a whole different department mr cortina's correct yeah and i think we can look at that moving forward this is totally a different issue that we're talking about today so i think that going forward we can look at being able to find that funding for a program like that okay no doubt about that okay thank you
 But she also included code enforcement, which is under the police department. Right. But yeah, it's been addressed by the police department as well, code enforcement. So this is strictly for the police department. We're going with this. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. With that, Ms. Pryor, we do have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Molinar to amend item 11.
 to direct the city manager to look at a study to implement the use of body cameras with code enforcement and in city inspectors. Is that correct? Yes. Okay, on the amendment, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwine. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Now there is a motion made by Representative Rivera. Prior to that, we did have Mr. Mancera sign up to speak. However, I don't see him in the queue.
 There was a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, and this was to approve. Did you want to take items 11 as amended and item 19 together? Yes, ma'am. Yes? Okay. So this is for item 11 as amended and item 19. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein, thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 Next item is number 12. This is discussion in action on a resolution formally requesting Texas Department of Transportation TxDOT to consider an alternative design for segment 2 downtown of the reimagined I-10 project and this is Thank you
 I'm bringing this item up to the council today and hopefully in support. It's a sensible common sense item relating to the transformative downtown project.
 its goal is to lay concrete guidance to the texas department of transportation to focus on design and function function not just for vehicles but for neighborhoods pedestrians and other street users as well and this resolutionally focuses on areas relating to the recently approved raise grant that the city was awarded and the adjacent neighborhoods and streets i think we all know that downtown el paso isn't like any other part of our city
 a compact, connected, and blockable historic area that serves as a central gathering place for all members of our community. Similar to the rest of the nation, the construction of I-10 in the late 60s had an effect of separating and physically detaching thriving urban neighborhoods from our downtown into the larger community.
 For background, in 2019, the Texas Department of Transportation announced this downtown project, which includes improvements intended to address congestion, safety, and the aging infrastructure of the 5.6-mile-long segment of I-10 that cuts through the heart of our community's downtown urban core. Since its initial announcement, TxDOT has identified three build alternatives for the downtown project.
 all of which include a two-lane expansion in addition of at-grade frontage roads immediately next to neighborhoods to the north and south of this corridor. The current design for these frontage roads mimics the speed limits and designs that you would see on the far east side and west side of El Paso. And colleagues, I believe that that kind of design is simply just not acceptable for our downtown, which is a very special and urban context of our city.
 As those alternatives are being considered, it's important that we as a community, as a body, recognize today that we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to improve the design of the downtown segment of I-10, to encourage and advocate for a design that considers the corridor's urban surroundings, including its nearby neighborhoods.
 We have an opportunity not only to minimize the impact of the I-10 corridor on our downtown neighborhoods, but also to focus on strengthening our urban fabric by improving connectivity and accessibility for all residents and visitors, regardless of how they choose to transport themselves, whether it's vehicles or by foot or by bike or other.
 Today, we have a very real opportunity to leverage over $750 million in completed and planned public and private investment made into downtown El Paso over the last decade by shifting the paradigm away from a transportation system that primarily serves as a theory of two streets through streets for vehicles and instead considers inclusive safety and mobility while also providing premier public spaces that result in a real and tangible economic and social benefit for our entire community.
 We have seen this kind of language before utilized. Award-winning comprehensive plan, Plan El Paso, calls for reducing the over-reliance on automobiles to the preferred mode of travel, and tools such as the city's street design manual call for the appropriate context-sensitive design of roadways by differentiating the design of roads located in urban versus suburban and rural areas.
 It's time that we consider Plan El Paso's vision and make use of those tools for us to secure frontage roads that support and enhance our vibrant downtown and neighborhood benefits and reconnect the urban fabric currently separated by I-10. I believe that it's time that we as a community rally to call for the elimination of the frontage roads as currently proposed through downtown and replace them with urban scaled streets that become more multimodal and appealing to pedestrians.
 streets that provide ample sidewalks, on-street parking, and street lights, street trees lining the adjacent parkways with sensible speed limits. A great example of this contact-sensitive street design alongside an urban highway project are the roads surrounding Clyde Warren Park in Dallas, Texas, which I have an example that I will show in a little bit. Now is the time to advocate for roads that improve safety for pedestrians.
 cyclists and transit users by better managing vehicular speeds through narrow travel lanes, changes in pavement and artfully and thoughtfully designed traffic calming measures. Let's be clear, our downtown is like no other part of our city and the design for this project should reflect the urban nature of our downtown port. As TxDOT considers alternative build options for the downtown segment, we must emphasize the need for balance in the design of the corridor's frontage roads,
 to share between the multiple functions and users of the streets so that the streets lining I-10 support current and future land uses while also enhancing connectivity and the beautiful unique character of our community. Again this is so important as we've been awarded a RAISE grant to focus on this important project for our community. In the word of Jane Jacobs, a great urbanist, she states that streets and their sidewalks, the main public places of a city, are its most vital organs.
 Together we have an opportunity to breathe life into those vital organs, to reimagine their role, and to strengthen their importance to the continued growth and development of our vibrant downtown and its surrounding neighborhoods. Again, I think it's really important again with this that we can again emphasize that while there are projects that are important, highway projects, a highway project in our downtown should not look like a highway project on the far east or the far west side.
 City Clerk, if we can set a small presentation, just about four slides to just show this example in a visual way, if that can be brought up by any chance. Yes, sir. IT will bring up your slides. Thank you. This is for item 12, IT. I can't tell if it's up yet or not. Not yet, sir. IT, this is for item 12. Thank you.
 It's titled Schwartzbind Item 12 Frontage Road. The presentation was sent by Ms. Esquivel this morning. Okay, I see movement. Okay, great, thank you. I don't know if you're able to put in a slideshow presentation, but thank you. All right, so again, this is just a small support of what I just basically mentioned. Next slide. This is currently one of the alternatives that's been proposed from TxDOT.
 The streets that you're looking at is Santa Fe Street, as well as, I believe, Mesa Street as well. If you notice, there's what they call a Texas U-turn, which is a very large U-turn in the area. Again, this would be something fabulous off of Trans Mountain, something great off of Litrovino, but is not appropriate for our downtown. And you can sort of see how really this separates
 and causes increased concerns with traffic if you go to the next slide. So again, as the proposal currently is, with or without a deck park, we can see
 how concerning this could be in terms of what it does to the urban fabric of our downtown with wide streets that act as frontage roads designed as frontage roads for a highway but not for our urban core not for our downtown and that's what this item really is focusing on is how do we get those frontage roads to look appropriate and scaled for an urban city not for a suburban highway and we can go to the next slide
 So to give an example of that, this is a frontage road directly adjacent to Clyde Warren Park in Dallas, Texas. So you can see here, this is a road that goes directly against the highway. There was an accident.
 the traffic would go onto this road, but you can see that it has ample shade trees, wide sidewalks for pedestrians, as well as on-street parking for food trucks or others. As the design of this project goes along, it's really important at this early time to send a clear example to TxDOT about our expectations for design and how this street works within our community and within our downtown. We can go to another slide.
 And so this is what the frontage road looks like on the other side of Clyde Warren Park as well. Again, speed limit is 30 miles per hour in this area. Just for context, the current frontage roads that we have in downtown on Yandel and on Wyoming are both a speed limit of 30 miles per hour. And then we can go to the next slide. And just to give a little bit more of a sense as well.
 This is a side-by-side comparison of two images that I made. On the left, again, is Clyde Warren Park in Dallas in 2019, and on the right is the access road off of Red Road
 taken a few weeks ago as well. So we can see kind of what kind of product we want for our community, what kind of design we want for our community, and most importantly, what kind of design makes sense in our downtown. And again, colleagues, I strongly consider your support for this resolution, which I think will clearly state what our priorities and expectations are to tech stuff and the leadership in our state. Thank you.
 Thank you representative vanilla followed by representative Rodriguez Thank You mayor. I want to first thank representative Schwartzbein for not only putting this item up but also putting that presentation up and
 I think there's been a lot of concern from council members and from the community about kind of what This final project is going to look like and what the options are and as representative Schwarzbein pointed out We've kind of been told that there are going to be three three options without any of those concerns taking in So I really appreciate him for putting this up and encouraging them to look at alternate designs. I do want to ask I guess this would be an amendment but just that
 when we talk about, because Representative Schwartzbrand is totally right, you know, putting in these fast
 access roads and downtown kind of reverses all of the work that we've done in downtown, around downtown, and uptown to build walkability. But I also think we've had a very broad conversation at this council about walkable neighborhoods and getting to downtown as well. And so I would just ask that, you know, where it says in respect to frontage roads downtown, you also add language that says in and around adjacent neighborhoods.
 and when you say downtown segment say segment two so that would be a proposed amendment i don't know if i have a second on that and laura i have specifics i can send those to you if you need sorry claudia seconded that um and then i also i want to bring up another amendment and i know this is a
 somewhat of a controversial subject, but I think we've heard a lot from communities who wanna say, well, what does this look like without the expansion? And we know that there's funding issues behind that, and there's some political issues behind that, but I do think that TxDOT should be able to provide a visual image for that, especially since communities are asking for it. And Representative Schwartzbein brought up Clyde Warren
 park, you know, that was done without an expansion. I think we should just be able to point to what all of these options are and why we're choosing the best one for the community. And we can't do that without a visual option. And so my second amendment would just to also...
 I don't know necessarily that this is an amendment, Laura. It might be a separate action altogether is to also add language or create language that says that we'd also like to see an option without the widening of downtown. So. I think that might be separate. I don't think we can add it into your resolution. Representative Schwartzwein? It kind of takes away from that. Go ahead, sir. I could address it as the.
 I would respectfully request, Representative Ello, that those amendments and those other items might be taken as a separate one. I just thought it was really important to focus, even though this is within segment two, to focus on the area that is relating to the RAISE grant in these areas. I do think that those discussions and those items that you bring up I think are important
 but I do think that they probably deserve to have their own resolution or action taken with them. Okay, so I'll, and I get that. I'll withdraw the second one. I do wanna keep the first one. I understand that you're talking about the RAISE grant, but I think if we're making the statement to TxDOT, we should really keep that conversation cohesive as it is one and can follow up with some language in the future, but I would like to keep that First Amendment
 And I'll bring the second one up later at another time. So thank you. Your first amendment again is...
 It's just to add languages where you say downtown in respects to frontage roads, you just say downtown and adjacent neighborhoods. Or when you say, you know, downtown segment, you say segment two, because I do think the conversation that you're having is really important, and it also should include, right, access to UTEP from downtown, access to Sunset Heights from downtown, access to Uptown from downtown, right? We want to connect those things, and...
 And creating these really fast access roads on any of segment two limits our ability to do that. And so I know that you're focusing specifically on the RAISE grant, but if we're going to make the statement to TxDOT about the whole project and the design, we should just say segment two. And this is why, because of the RAISE grant. So I'm going to leave that First Amendment in place first.
 Thank you. Thank you. I do think that the resolution does address it. There's an item relating to maintain existing connections and enhance pedestrian cyclist access to downtown from surrounding historic and adjacent urban neighborhoods. That is one of the bullet points at this point for the resolution. And I don't think that putting segment two would change that. It's just one word, downtown segment and segment two.
 right as someone who represents the five points piedras and area the montana corridor i want to be for my residents to be able to access downtown through this you know plan el paso walkability that we've talked about so i that's i'm going to stand on that amendment thank you thank you and we'll take that motion thank you representative rodriguez thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. So I also think that this is a very important item and thank you, Representative Schwarzwein, for bringing this up and for us kind of preparing and being able to look into the future and say, hey, should this project come into
 our city, this is what we want, these are the parameters that we are requesting of TxDOT. However, the only place that I'm seeing on the backup that on the resolution that I have sort of an issue with is where it says we're asked to mitigate the physical and visual impacts of the freeways location through downtown, the freeway should be capped in order to physically reconnect the surrounding historic and adjacent urban neighborhoods.
 That part of the resolution to me seems to be a little bit controversial in the sense that I know people that are for this project people that are against this project. I know that this isn't necessarily about that but I would be more comfortable if we could change the word should to could
 That way it's not anything that's being set in stone and people kind of see that we're just sort of trying to plan ahead and not necessarily setting anything in stone. So I would actually like to make an amendment to just change the word should to could. Second. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Cron, we have a motion. We have a few amendments and then a motion.
 Oh, you didn't hit the thing, so I didn't see you. Go ahead. No, go ahead. Rep. Nello, on page one, is it the second to the last whereas that you are changing? And I can read them all out if you want. It's only like four. Okay.
 So on the second to last whereas on page one of the resolution it states downtown With respect to frontage, so I just put in and around downtown and adjacent neighborhoods to the east and west And then on the last whereas it says the freeways location through downtown It could say through downtown and adjacent neighborhoods The preamble to the resolution says vibrant downtown. You could just say vibrant downtown and neighborhoods
 and then instead of say downtown segment say segment two and then an item d um add missouri and main street so that was those were all of them i hope that helps miss prime it's just recommendations thank you mayor proton i believe that there's uh speakers for public comment here for some additional additional statements that is correct we have two members of the public that signed up to speak on this item yes please the first person is mr robert storch
 Mr. Storch, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Robert Storch, star six, please. He will be followed by Scott White. Mr. Robert Storch, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. We'll go with Mr. Scott White. Star six, please, Mr. White. Okay, see Mr. Storch now. Hello? Go ahead, Mr. Storch. You have three minutes. This is Bob Storch. Yes, sir. Go ahead. You have three minutes.
 Okay, thank you. My name is Bob Storch. I live in Sunset Heights. I want to endorse the acceptance of the proposed resolution with the... Go ahead, sir. Hello? Yes, sir. Go ahead. We can hear you. Who? Me or Scott? You, Mr. Storch. We can hear you, sir. Go ahead. Okay. I want to endorse the resolution as amended. I suggest one further amendment in that the preamble where it says...
 downtown, I would suggest that it, rather than vibrant downtown, that it read Vibrant Urban Core. The pre-World War II urban core of El Paso extends from UTEP to Ascarity to Fort Bliss. There is a dramatic map of that core in the 1925 city plane. The independent traffic engineer hired by El Paso County analyzed the downtown
 I-10 plant. He pointed out a significant amount of traffic on I-10 downtown is local short trips within the corridor. Much of that traffic could be rerouted off the highway by eliminating some highway exits and redesigning the frontage roads to integrate with the existing street grid.
 Existing street connections between downtown and neighborhoods north are plentiful and should be maintained. More streets across I-10 should be added to reconnect Lincoln Park and the Five Points and DeRosno neighborhoods. If you want to truly reconnect a neighborhood, let's talk about a deck park over US 54 between Government Hill and Austin Terrace. The Central Park proposed in Plano Paso
 with added bridges over I-10 could reconnect McGaughan and Virginia neighborhoods, long separated by the rail yard east of downtown. This resolution as amended with broader focus
 is a step in the right direction to truly reimagine I-10, not just make it bigger. If we want to make El Paso the least car-dependent city in the Southwest, I-10 through central El Paso must be downsized, not upsized. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Scott White. Mr. White, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, Council. Good morning.
 i am scott white policy director of the velopass bicycle coalition and you all know i have been a long time advocate for safer streets and i think that is fundamentally what we are talking about here with this project is we need to make the streets adjacent to i-10 as safe as possible but we also need to make sure that people can cross the i-10 corridor equally as safely and that means
 All of segment two needs to have, instead of frontage roads, those roads need to be surface streets so that people can get to their destinations. When we talk about access, when we talk about connectivity, the entire downtown core and central El Paso is what needs to be envisioned. This TxDOT project is going to impact the city of El Paso for the next 50 years, perhaps even more.
 If we don't get it right now, we're going to leave a legacy for generations that is built on getting places by a car because we're going to impose high-speed, high-volume roadways in places where they just are not appropriate. We need to be looking at solutions we want not just for today but for the future. And that means, as per the resolution,
 These frontage roads really are inappropriate. They need to be safe, slow streets that are welcoming to people, which are welcoming to businesses, which leads to economic vibrance. So I please ask you to do this, but also consider the context of what's going on behind all this. There is also a Vision Zero process going on and a Complete Streets process. The city wants safer streets.
 and we need to make that happen and that means we need to ask texdot to reconsider what they have proposed so it works for el paso i-35 in austin they are going through the same process right now and they are demanding safe surface streets not frontage roads if they can do it we can do it and we can make our city just as great as we hope it really should be so i thank you thank you without mr prime i think we have uh go ahead manco tim
 Thank you again. And I want to thank the both of our speakers as well. And I want to thank city staff and also council as well for their thoughtful input. In regards towards the two proposed amendments to this resolution, I think that what Representative Manello brings up are
 and help to clarify and provide further clarity on the project and this resolution and the sort of expectations and such, and I can support them. I do feel, however, in terms of Representative Rodriguez's, that I do think it's important that we send a clear message about what we hope to see in our community as well.
 And even though the deck park seems to be an aspirational project at this point, I think it's one that would provide a lot of value to our community. And I think we need to send the right messages leaders, that that's a project that we don't just think could happen, but we think should happen. And it's one that will really be transformative in terms of connecting those neighborhoods, of connecting our downtown and some of the historic neighborhoods in the area, as well as burgeoning areas like the uptown corridor. Also this resolution does,
 Again, stress that connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods is currently written as well as making sure that we maintain and look at increasing the north-south connections as well so we can have a proper balance between vehicular, pedestrian, and highway traffic as well. And so again, appreciate both Representative Inelho and Representative Rodriguez.
 for their thoughtful items here to look at proposing and I look forward to supporting Representative Manalo's amendments written as such. Also, in addition to this, for the record, this resolution, Ms. Prime would be sent to the MPO, to our federal representatives, to our state representatives, to Thomas Trevino, the district engineer of Tate-Tex-Dot,
 as well as the Executive Director for Tax, Mark Williams, the Deputy ED, Brian Barth, as well as the Deputy Director, Bill Hell, as well, in addition to being into our records as well. Thank you. And with that, I think it's important, I think Mr. White was very,
 Correct. It says this is going to impact our city for you know 50 or more years and we need to make sure we continue to look at all avenues and make sure that what we do Moving forward is the right thing. So I think which white was correct on saying that as a Council we we need to continue to look to make sure it's the right thing. So with that we'll take the amendments first Yes, mayor. I'm not sure if you want to take them together
 Yes? Separate please. I think we ought to take them separately. Separate. I'd like to see them separate. Okay. So this was Representative Anello seconded by Representative Rodriguez. And these amendments are, and this is on page one, on the second to the last paragraph where it says, whereas the location of the freeways proposed fronted roads in downtown, the city
 to insert the words in and around downtown and adjacent neighborhoods to the east and west. And then on the last paragraph on page one where it says, whereas to mitigate the physical and visual impacts of the freeway's location through downtown, insert and adjacent neighborhoods. And then on page two,
 where it says, the preamble that says that in order to promote appropriate urban design to support and enhance our vibrant downtown and add neighborhoods to reconnect the urban fabric currently separated by Interstate 10, the following design consideration be considered in the final design alternative for the downtown segment. Insert the number 2 of Reimagine I-10 and then on letter A,
 where it says the elimination of frontage roads is currently conceived through downtown and neighborhoods and then on letter d to say reduce design speeds of frontage roads to maintain the current 30 mile per hour speed limit on yandel drive and wyoming avenue and also add missouri and maine
 Representative Vanello, is that correct? Yes, thank you. I thought I made that really easy and then while you were reading it, I realized I could have made it a little easier. I apologize. No problem. Thank you. Mayor, this is Kristin Kerr. I'm from legal. I do wanna make a clarification, Representative Vanello. I believe on the preamble where it says downtown segment, you wanted to add and segment two, correct? Okay, not just add the number two, but and segment two. Yes, that was correct. Thank you for that. Thank you, Kristin, and segment two. On that amendment,
 for the vote mayor Pro Tem short line thank you and the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes representative only not voting name the motion does pass and then there was another amendment made by representative seconded by representative
 the resolution and this is on page one on the last paragraph where it says whereas to mitigate the physical and visual impacts of the freeways location through downtown and adjacent neighborhoods the freeway strike out the word should and insert the word could is that correct okay is that correct representative yes okay thank you on that amendment call for the vote sorry let me try this again call for the vote
 mayor pro tem shorts fine in the voting session and the motion fails with representative shorts fine molinar rivera lizabella voting name representatives on elo salcido rodriguez voting night the motion does fail thank you next time there is a motion made by mayor pro tem shorts fine seconded by representative and this is to approve the resolution as amended call for the vote
 Representative Schwartzwing? Mr. Pratt, a point of clarification for legal as well. In order to send this resolution to TEXA, MPO, and other members, does that need to be added onto this motion or is that something I can send to you all as clarification? That can be done. I'm sorry, Mayor Pro Tem, I missed the question.
 I was just saying I had a list of different entities and people to send this resolution to, including the NPO, TxDOT, our state and federal representatives, and wondering if that needs to be included in the resolution language or that can be communicated to your office or to the city clerk to send this resolution if it passes. Okay.
 Typically, I believe that the rep's office or maybe the mayor's office would send those. If that's something that the city clerk is able to do, I'm sure she can assist you with that outside of the resolution. All right. Thank you. Thank you. I vote yes. Thank you, Mayor Prokofiev. In the voting session, and the motion passes with six affirmative votes, Representative Molina voting nay, the motion does pass.
 and mayor pro tem i can assist you with mailing the copy of those resolutions to the entities if you send me a list great thank you again thank you council mayor the next item is number 13 and this is a budget update good morning members of council robert cortinas continue to move along within this current budget year we're a little more than six months into the current fiscal year our fiscal year 2022 budget so this presentation is going to focus on providing an update on where we're at in regards to our revenue sources and then our expenditures
 By category and then by our strategic goals that we have now This is an important presentation because this is really what's going to set the tone in the foundation for our upcoming budget development for our fiscal year 2023 Budget process and so this information in addition to the historical information that we utilize to come up with estimates of forecasts Working with closely with our departments will play a key role primarily on the revenue side So really what we've seen so far
 On the revenue side, really, really encouraging. You saw some information yesterday from David Coronado during the COVID CFT presentation related to the performance of sales tax, the hotel occupancy tax. This presentation will cover a couple of other key categories, which, again, continue to show positive trend, really getting back to sort of pre-COVID levels. On the expenditure side, obviously, one of the areas we continue to monitor is in regards to our positions throughout the city.
 uh the number of vacancies that we have trying to get all of those filled has had a little bit of an impact on the overtime in a couple of departments however nothing really significant at this point in time in addition to that one of the things again we continue to monitor which will play a key role in the as i mentioned the budget development for next year is obviously the increase that we're seeing in fuel cost right now primarily being driven by our three key departments that utilize a lot of unleaded fuel police fire our streets and maintenance department
 Continue to look at utilities. I have a slide here They'll show you what we've seen as far as electricity and the cost related to our street lights and as well as the electricity utilizing our city facilities and Then finally the last item there you all have approved so far Utilizing the ARPA funding all the way up through the end of December So we have been incurring costs within the general fund as of January will be coming forward here in the near future Again to move those costs out of the general fund and into the ARPA where they are applicable and should be charged to
 So looking at the revenue categories here we have this slide showing you at the very very top property taxes all the way down through All the various categories that we have as far as revenue. You'll see the bottom line there the total revenue The key point here is typically what we've seen throughout the first six months historically. We're about 75 Total revenue collected so we're right in line with that Property taxes obviously the number one revenue source
 most of those collections are done at the end of february we have had a little bit of an impact as far as our tax department getting those payments posted and into our office of the comptroller office to get posted just because of the impact that we've seen from the staffing level but property taxes continue to perform as expected you'll see sales tax there the second row is the key again second largest revenue source for the city general fund performing extremely well i have a couple of slides here just because of the significance and the
 Really really positive growth that we've seen on sales tax collections and we've collected about 60% so far the budget Which is a little bit higher than what we've seen historically Typically, we're around 55 percent collected. So again encouraging news on that front and then the other Categories there. I'll point out charges for services and the rents another you'll see a little bit of an increase there compared to the prior year
 And again, that's being driven by the revenue that's being collected through our parks and recreation And the various services that they provide if you remember last year Most of those services were closed down due to covet and so we do have the corresponding revenue But then at the same time the expenditures related to those costs as well in our quality of life portfolio so as we look at property tax collections that provides just as a To show you the historical data and the trend of what we see as far as property tax collection. So through february
 Again, we're right on track with where we are historically, around 95% collected. We'll see the remaining primarily come in through March and then smaller amounts throughout the remaining months of this fiscal year. As I mentioned, there was a slight delay from our tax office of getting those payments posted and, again, really being impacted by the staffing levels. And the tax office did a fantastic job this year of providing a high level of customer service, again, trying to deal with,
 some of the challenge from code of actually doing collections in person and again trying to process those individuals as quickly as possible to get them in and out so the tax office really did a good job this year of handling that situation as we look at city sales tax again this is an important revenue source because this is again our second largest revenue for the city's general fund you'll see here the last 11 months we have just seen unprecedented growth in our sales tax collections starting back in march of 2021.
 All throughout through January of 2022, which is our most recent month of sales tax allocation that we have received from the state Again, there's that two to three month delay that we received from the state And so again the lack of real-time information creates a little bit of a challenge Especially with what we're seeing as far as unprecedented growth But really really really encouraging to see our sales tax to continue to perform well above the expected levels however, we are expecting at some point to begin to see a little bit of a flattening out of this revenue source and
 Again primarily do the the stimulus money provided by the federal government whether it was the additional Child income tax credit that was received last year which ended Whether it's the potential end to the student loan payment deferrals, which is expected to end in May which may be extended The president and the actions that are taken over the next few weeks. I know there's discussion about extending that so some different factors coming at the federal level that could have some impact on discretionary spending by our community and
 so looking at sales tax a little bit differently so this is something that we monitor very very closely because as i mentioned second largest revenue source and so i mentioned that the five year forecast presentation that i did that historically prior to covid we would see approximately four and a half to five million dollars of new sales tax revenue growth so additional revenue in this one category alone
 If you look at this, if you look at the middle row there, the dollar increase from year to year, and this is from September through January, so this is looking at five fiscal months. As I mentioned, January is the most recent month that we have for sales tax. If you look at FY 2018, so we saw $1.4 million increase compared to the same time in the prior year. So that's five months. We saw about a $1.4 million increase. You look at FY 19, again, about a $1.4, $1.5 million increase compared to the prior year.
 Fiscal year 2020, so right before COVID hit, so September of 2019 all the way up to January of 2020, our sales tax was performing extremely well. We were at 12% or $4.7 million higher than the same time in the prior year. Fiscal year 21, you'll see a little bit of flattening off again as an impact of COVID. But if you look in the far right-hand column there, fiscal year 2022, of the first five months of this fiscal year compared to the same time last year, we're at $8.2 million higher or almost 19%.
 Really, really unprecedented growth in our sales tax collection. And again, something that we continue to monitor and try to factor in potential flattening out as we begin to develop the forecast for this upcoming fiscal year and our fiscal year 2023 budget. But again, really encouraging to see sales tax continue to perform extremely well in this current fiscal year.
 A couple of other key categories of mixed beverage. So this is our alcohol tax that we do collect. Again, a portion of this does go back to the state, but the city does retain this. You'll see the flattening out in 2021, obviously the impact of COVID. You'll see that bounce back really nicely, actually higher than where we were prior to COVID. Currently at $1.7 million through the first six months of this fiscal year. Same thing with our licenses and permits. You'll see a little bit of a dip in fiscal year 2021.
 But you'll see a bounce back in that far right hand column there fiscal year 2022 At 5.7 million dollars again right back in line with pre-covered levels on our license of permit revenue category that the planning inspections department Processes our bridge transfer revenue. You saw some of this information from david cornell yesterday in regards to the passenger crossings and the increase that they've seen There the transfer from the bridges to the general fund right now is about 8.1 million dollars for the first first six months of this fiscal year again
 not only back to pre-COVID, but actually even higher than pre-COVID levels by about a million dollars. So really encouraging to see our bridges continue to perform at a high level and to provide the general fund that revenue that we had budgeted for this current fiscal year. As we look at the expenditures, again, as I mentioned, continue to monitor the fuel costs
 Looking at our utilities our materials and contracts those fixed costs other than the other Primary source of our expenditures related to our salaries benefits of taxes These fixed costs are things that we continue to monitor To ensure that not only we are we staying in line and having that budget discipline in the current fiscal year But that obviously we're taking into account what we're seeing currently as we're developing again the budget for next fiscal year continuing to look at our vacancies and attrition and working really closely our HR department all of our departments to get those positions filled and
 And then as I mentioned, the COVID costs, which we've been incurring since January, to the general fund. But as I mentioned, those in the very near future will be brought back before your approval to move those into the ARPA allocation. So as we look at the expenditures by strategic goal, you'll see our eight strategic goals on the far left-hand side there. You'll see the FY20-22 budget, the FY22 actuals of where we're at for the first six months. And then the far right-to column, you'll see just for comparison purposes, where we were at the same time in the prior fiscal year.
 So you have the actuals and the percentage collected. I talked about the quality of life. So if you look at that strategic goal, you'll see the increase there, $16.9 million for the first six months of this fiscal year compared to $13.8 last year. And, again, that's due to the restoration of those quality of life services that were impacted by COVID. If you look at also on the infrastructure, $18 million this current fiscal year for the first six months compared to $17 million last year.
 It's about a $1 million increase that's being driven by our electricity costs, which I have a slide that'll show you where we're at year to date. But overall expenditures a little bit lower than we were at the same time last year as far as percent spent, about 42% this year compared to 43% last year. Looking at the expenditures a little bit differently, this is by category. So personal services again makes up almost three quarters of the city's general fund budget. That's the top line there. That's the salary benefits and taxes for our city employees.
 You'll see a little bit of an increase there compared to the prior year, but the percentage spent is pretty much right on target with where we were at last year. If you look at the operating, or let's look at the materials and supplies, that's where our fuel costs are generated. So materials and supplies category, you'll see so far this year we're at $7 million total for that category compared to 6.2 million last year, about an $800,000 increase. Again, that's really being driven by the fuel cost, and I have a slide here that'll show you that one account alone.
 If you look at also operating expenses there the eleven point four million dollars this year compared to nine point two last year Over a two million dollar increase that's really being driven by the electricity cost that I just mentioned a few minutes ago But overall as I mentioned if you look at the bottom line total expenses 42% spent so far this fiscal year of the total budget compared to 43 percent last year so again pretty much right in line with where we are historically and
 One of the things that we did see a budget increase on if you all remember back to August last year one of the increases That we did have in the budget was in our IT contracts We did see some increases there. So nothing that we did not expect on the fuel cost as I mentioned You'll see here last year. We're at 1.3 million through the first six months of this year. We're at 1.8 and
 So about a half a million dollar increase to the first six months alone And so if this trend continues we're projecting to be about three and a half million dollars total by the end of this fiscal year Which is a pretty significant compared to where we are historically So something that again will continue to monitor over the next several months to ensure that we're forecasting appropriately As we develop the fiscal year 2023 budget electricity cost again another one of those fixed costs that we have so this is the electricity not only for city facilities, but also for our street lights and
 You'll see there about a 1.1 million dollar increase to the first six months compared to last year Again, just based on usage and then based on the electric race that we have for our street lights and for our city facilities So again, this is something that was not unexpected But again something that we continue to monitor will adjust accordingly as we begin to develop the FY 2023 budget
 So in summary, as I mentioned, this presentation is to provide you an update on the first six months of the fiscal year. Again, this is what's going to be utilized in addition to all of the historical data that the Budget Office utilizes to develop the budget. But this is really important information because obviously this plays a key role in determining what those revenue forecasts are going to look like, what the expenditure forecasts are going to look like, and then the discussions that we'll have over the next several months.
 154 days from now when you all be adopting the fiscal year 2023 budget so we have plenty of time a little over five months left uh the covet and the economic uncertainty that's something that you're probably going to hear a lot about obviously with inflationary pressures currently driving up the cost of materials and goods is something that we'll continue to monitor and fuel as well but really just continue to monitor and report out and provide you all all this information as we continue to make revisions not only to the current fiscal year forecast but also as we begin to
 uh really put some pen to paper and put some fy 2023 revenue expenditure estimates together you all saw during the five-year forecast we had some some very preliminary estimates to provide you sort of an outlook on where we thought we were going to end up for fiscal year 2023 but again as we collect more data i have a meeting with the central appraisal district coming up a little bit later this month
 We will be provided the very preliminary appraisal report so we'll see what the residential side looks like and then we continue to receive updates on the Appraisals over the next several months until we get those certified values late July So that'll play a key role, but if there's any other questions, I'd be happy to answer those Cooper's from Lennar followed by represent South Cedar. Oh
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Great job. Thank you very much, Mr. Cortina's question Do you know approximately how many streetlights are absorbed every year? Calendar year by this by our city. I don't I mean we can get you that information And one of the things that I know that our streets maintenance department our facility department's been working with them on is trying to get all of the streetlights converted to LED we do have a large number of streetlights that are not and
 So that's something that we'll continue to work on to again. Hopefully try to cut down some of that utility costs Are you totally caught surprisingly are really being driven by the streetlight usage. It's one of the larger Expenditures that we have on the electric side. All right. Thank you Thank you mayor and thank you Robert for this presentation I just have a quick question for you. I think it was a slight number seven in regards to the mixed beverage tax and
 You mentioned that part of it goes to the state how much it comes to the city. I'll send you the breakdown I don't remember It's changed the last couple of years but the city does collect a portion of it and in a portion similar to our sales tax as well the portion of the mixed-beverage tax does go back to the state similar to a lot of our revenues that we collect sales tax, for example, the state charges a 2% processing fee and
 On all of our fines and forfeitures expenses so anything related to municipal court a large portion of that goes back to the state But I'll provide you that's in the full council that that break down on the mixed beverage. Okay. Thank you And I just wanted to say thank you again for the presentation I really like to have these numbers before us and it lets us prepare for our budget season. So thank you again Thank you
 Item number 14 is a presentation and discussion providing a preview of the 2022 Strategic Plan Goal Team Report Series. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Juliana Baldwin-Muniz with the Performance Office. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen IT. Good morning. Okay, so the presentation that we want to provide today is essentially going to give a quick overview of what you can expect during the Council meetings to come as we wrap up to provide our goal team presentations. And so in order to do that, we're going to
 We're going to go ahead and take a look back. And so we've shared throughout the Gold Team reporting series that strategic planning is both reflective and future focused and so want to share with you a bit in terms of the transformation so far since the implementation of our strategic plan. We'll do a quick recap of our strategic planning process and then provide the schedule of the reports that you can expect over the next several council meetings. And so with that I'm going to go ahead
 go ahead and share a video. So one of the things that council shared with us during the strategic planning process is a key focus area is to continue to find different ways to communicate our successes. And so we took that feedback and developed a brief video that's going to give us that reflective look back on all of the amazing things that have been lifted as a result of implementing our strategic plan. SPEAKER 1 Julie can you make the screen the PowerPoint the full screen please. SPEAKER 2 Yes of course. SPEAKER 1 Thank you.
 So let me... Okay. Better, Representative Rodriguez? Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and play the video now. Julie, nothing changed and we can't see the video. Give me one sec. Let me share screen again. Julie, this is Laura Cruz Acosta. Hi, Laura Cruz Acosta. Do you need me to share it over here on the podium? Let me just try one more time. Can you see it now? Full screen or not yet? You're sharing the wrong screen, ma'am.
 Okay, how about now Laura? There it is. Thank you ma'am. Okay, thank you. Alright, let's try this again. Thank you all. There's no sound in case, Julie. There used to be sound. Okay, sorry about that. One more sec, I just changed laptop. Laura, can you view it now? I just want to make sure. No. Okay, can you share from the podium please? I'm having a difficulty syncing. A remarkable transformation. Sorry, A.T.
 dedicated to our workforce and residents. 2015 saw creation of a novel strategic blueprint for transformative successes. It required visionary leadership, a relentless spirit, and a supportive workforce environment at all levels. Our senior leaders empowered us to succeed following our unofficial motto, No lo digas, hazlo, don't say it, do it.
 We tackled sizable challenges, including three unprecedented events. A humanitarian crisis of asylum seekers crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, the August 3, 2019 mass shooting tragedy, and our continuing pandemic response and recovery. Our leadership system provided our operational framework. We equipped our team to lead and innovate, approaching transformation from the inside out.
 Our investment in learning empowered our workforce, shaping improvements at all levels. We have over 100 cross-functional teams. This approach enabled us to reach and sustain the highest vaccination rate in Texas and to continue leading nationally. We were one of 14 cities in North America invited to the Bloomberg Philanthropies Innovation Training Program.
 Our employee engagement survey saw a best-in-class 94% response rate, with 98% indicating favorable agreement with their work contribution and commitment to the organization's success. We were also recognized as a top performer in the Equipped to Innovate national survey.
 Building a supportive workforce environment involves aligning the mind, body and spirit. This means seven years of pay increases and health and fitness incentives. Employees on the high deductible plan now receive between $500 to $1,000 in their health savings account. And the Shape It Up Wellness Program provides a financial incentive. We also increase the number of on-site wellness clinics from two to nine.
 So what happens when we lift a culture of continuous improvement through our plan, people, and process? We achieve higher levels of performance. We evolve how we respond to our workforce, our organization, and our community through results. We eliminated 2014's $7.8 million general fund operating deficit and increased financial reserves by over $73 million.
 We achieved seven consecutive years of a general fund surplus and achieved zero audit findings for six consecutive years. We've realized over $227 million in key savings and efficiencies and secured over $286 million in new revenue. We've dedicated over $70 million to public safety investments to address declining staffing and provide a regular schedule for vehicle and equipment replacement.
 And $41.5 million in street maintenance and traffic safety supported pothole repair production, going from 15,000 to up to 76,000 sites, are top resident priorities. Overall project production increased by 368%, with over 400 delivered. By minimizing debt and addressing community priorities, financial stewardship has become a core competency.
 We've become a model organization in key areas of operational excellence. The first organization to earn the Texas Award for Performance Excellence for two consecutive years, 2019 and 2020. We're also the first community recognized statewide for pioneering a Communities of Excellence Collaborative. We're an All-America City.
 We have listened to our workforce and residents. By listening, we improved processes, opened ourselves to new ideas, and transformed ourselves, our organization, and our El Paso community. Thank you, Laura. So if we can advance to the next slide.
 DIRECTOR MACKAY Okay so that provides a snapshot as we take a look back through the leadership of council to implement and activate our strategic plan. And so I'm not going to get into the details in terms of the physical projects because we have some detailed CIP updates coming forward as well as our goal seven gold team report. But if we take a look back and we look
 look at all the projects that have been completed since the adoption of the plan in 2015. That equals 442. And on the next slide we have a visual depiction of the impact really community wide that council has been focused on in terms of physical improvements. And so the next slide really provides
 a breakdown of those projects within the different focus areas that have been provided. So whether we're talking about parks and recreation improvements and the direct support to Goal 4 in terms of enhancing quality of life environments, airport development, facility improvements throughout, transportation and the fact that that is a critical focal point, as well as public safety improvements that are also incorporated. And on the next slide.
 We see what that looks like you know from a community wide scale to also within the individual districts the various phases of projects whether that's pre-design and design bidding or construction that have been activated throughout the community. On the next slide we also have resurfaced streets because we understand that for our community street infrastructure continues to be a key priority. So ensuring that we continue to focus on those improvements. And on the next slide you also see
 the detail here in terms of the various statuses. And so this information is typically shared through our quarterly CIP projects. It gives more detailed information. As I mentioned we have CIP updates on the horizon that will also get into information but it's also important to take a look back and really look at all the improvements that are taking shape throughout our community. So on the next slide.
 We have here just a picture of some projects that have been completed closing out FY21 and new improvements on the horizon. And so as we move from reconstruction on the next slide we have.
 And so always ensuring that economic prosperity is front and center in the information that's provided. As we move into vibrant regional economy updates that are also as part of the gold team reported series, that we also have a clear line of sight in terms of the jobs that are supported through the various projects that are being implemented. And so this just provides an update in terms of so far this fiscal year and how that continues to be implemented.
 a contributor to our economic prosperity. And so on the next slide we have here the strategic planning recap. And so this provides a chronology again of the various edits and refresh cycles that we've been through as one organization starting with the initial adoption in 2015 coming in 2017 to provide
 um the 20 and 20 that council adopted refreshed in 2019 with the longer term planning horizon for our 25 by 25 and the session we convened in the during the december session that reinforced our 25 by 25 but also identified five new strategic objectives that will begin to report out as part of this upcoming gold team series and so we are here in 2022 reporting
 out on key deliverables as well as updates to our existing strategies. So on slide 14 we before we get into a recap because I do want to take an opportunity to go back and recap our new strategic objectives that were added as a result of council's direction in December. From an alignment perspective when we talk about our four vision blocks.
 It is just that directly aligned back with the four vision statements and so that really sets our intention. The eight goals then become those broad statements that shape and ensure that all our departments are contributing to the traction that's being made. And then of course our key strategic objectives that provide specific information around objectives that are critical for us to complete both in the short term planning horizon as well as we look out to 2030.
 in key areas and so and to the right you just see the depiction of our goals directly aligned with our vision blocks and and by as an extension of that all of our departments contributing to that so on slide 15
 We take another look at our strategic planning process and so for in order for us to truly say that a process is systematic we have to be intentional about breaking up the steps that are going to inform and shape this process. And so directly supporting that and reinforcing that is our leadership system. And so it's the direction that council provides
 in the plan the visionary leadership that we have to really ensure that we don't lose focus on again the short term which follows each fiscal year in our integrated budget process as well as our longer term strategic objectives for us that spans all the way to 2030.
 but also understanding that it's the people, the goal teams, the departments, the leadership that we have that are really ensuring that we make traction, right, within our leadership system, and that we have those processes in place to really guide improvements. And so this just provides a quick snapshot of the steps that we take and all the connection points that really inform our systematic approach. On slide 16.
 We then have again just for another layer of our strategic mapping so we cover the four vision blocks that council is very familiar with and ensures that we have transparency and visibility through our goal team reporting. We have 54 strategies within our strategic plan and then the strategic objectives that then provide
 a clear delineation of where our focus is. And so on slide 17, just as a recap, so during our December session, we reaffirmed the 25 by 25 strategic objectives, but five new strategic objectives were added. So that gives us our 30 by 30.
 And on slide 18 we have just as a refresh before we move into the five strategic objectives I want to talk about these crosscutting themes that were really a result of the conversation we had during our December session the new objectives and what that revealed in terms of priority areas that we need to ensure we're aligned with. So I talked a little bit about.
 the job creation and just looking at the CIP as a snapshot alone and how that's a contributor. We'll also hear more on that as we look at our vibrant regional economy reports from Goals 1 and 3. Council has also...
 to ensure that we're dynamic and integrated in our planning especially as it comes to incorporating what we're hearing from our community partners as well as the boards and commissions that have gone through the process of developing strategic planning documents that those are supportive documents of what we carry forward as key deliverables that we ensure whenever we undertake a new objective that this is aligned back with the data with identified community priorities and needs as such. Such is the case with the new bond package that's currently in development in the engagement process
 was tied to that. There was also an emphasis on increasing access to services, including our vulnerable populations. And also council emphasized in the updates of strategies in December to move from development to implementation.
 in the months and years to come. And we talked a little about communicating successes and this became a key theme that several of the council representatives also shared during the sessions to ensure we find new and different ways to share that, to highlight that, that we also keep as a key focus area, the talent pipeline development.
 So whether it's succession implementation of our leaders and also in goal six, you'll hear during the goal team report how that connects back into key strategies that we have in place to look at that holistically. So we just heard
 from Robert Cortina's the current update from a budget perspective but also that we don't lose sight of the long-term financial sustainability overall and then last anchoring a lot of the conversations whether it's every work session when we talk about our COVID-19 CFT that public health remains something that's going to be critical to our continued response and recovery
 So now I'm going to quickly shift into our new strategic objectives and so this will all look familiar to you but I think it's important to quickly recap as we jump into goal team reporting throughout the weeks to come to recap where we landed with the new strategic objectives that comprise our 30 by 30. The first one really focused on growing existing and attracting new target industries including advanced manufacturing and international development which was a
 I'll highlight an amendment that council provided. But again, here really at the core of this strategic objective is fostering economic prosperity and ensuring that high paying career pathways are established back to the talent pipeline, both internal as well as external
 to continue the development of integrated planning efforts with communities of excellent partners. So I have to share that even since our December session there's been strategy sessions that we've helped facilitate with our partners that are ensuring that the planning in terms of their priorities and what council has expressed
 through the strategic planning process is reflected. And so that it's very exciting to see that that has already had significant traction and we're excited to bring back those updates as we make those connections and share with council progress that we've made within that second strategic objective. So on slide 20 we have our
 additional three new strategic objectives, broadly partnered and talent management strategies. And so again, directly connecting that back to that talent pipeline and improvements within that space. And we talked about identified community priorities and needs and the fact that the development of a bond package is critical to that. And then lastly, increasing access and services for all past ones. So this connects back to the key themes that I brought up a little bit earlier, but thought it was important to review those new strategic objectives as we get ready to bring those updates forward.
 So on slide 21 I also want to quickly recap the updated strategies that also resulted from our session. So again this this this focus on moving from development to implementation of items supporting ecotourism and heritage tourism as is the case with 1.2. As we move into 7.1 focus there on stormwater management and so as part of our goal 7 update we all
 We are incorporating and aligning information from El Paso water to ensure there's a clear line of sight there in terms of key information. And then also in 8.4, focus again on implementing a comprehensive climate action plan and specific updates and traction reported out on that.
 So then on the next slide, I'm going to provide a quick preview of the actual schedule of reports that we have coming up. So this was just an introduction and kickoff point to what Council can expect over the next several meetings. And so starting with safe and beautiful neighborhoods, and so goals 2, 7, and 8 focus on public safety, all things connected to infrastructure, as well as community being a healthy and sustainable community. So that'll be provided during the next
 council update, followed by vibrant regional economy. And then we have exceptional opportunities, all things connected to enhancing quality of life happening in April, at the end of April. And then we have our high-performing government that will focus in on communication, fiscal management, and sound governance as we wrap up the series at the end of May, and we move from there into our integrated budget process.
 And so throughout these Gold Team reports, we're going to be providing comprehensive information in terms of key service impacts connected to our continuing response and recovery with the pandemic. We'll also recap key accomplishments as a mid-operations report from September to February. We'll provide updates on key performance indicators, updates on key deliverables, which includes information on the new strategic objectives that I just recapped with
 Council and then also talk about key challenges and opportunities. Always important to incorporate that so that we place on your radar as well as visibility any key items that have surfaced since this fiscal year has started and following our strategic planning session in December.
 So on the last slide it's essentially just a recap of the new strategic plan booklet led by our strategic communications team. We have some copies to provide today of that. We're going to be refreshing the web page for strategic planning already has this information loaded with
 additional updates forthcoming but this is just a way to ensure again that there's that visibility the connection points on all things connected to our strategic planning. And so that that wraps up the quick preview that we wanted to provide today as we get ready to bring those goal team reports forward to council. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Neville.
 Thanks, Julie. Sorry, they're just handing us this book, which I wish I had been able to see before I asked these questions and made these comments. But I will just go ahead, and you can correct me if any of them are already in this booklet. So looking at kind of slides 21 and 20, well –
 Sorry, 19-2021. Or just the idea of the objectives under each goal. So I know when we were in strategic planning, we kind of had a conversation about, okay, we have these five new goals. What are the objectives under them, and how will they be determined? And I think my understanding is that the council would be a part of that. I'm seeing now your schedule where you're going to bring those to us. And so I'm wondering...
 it's different than what I imagined and that's fine. It doesn't always have to be what goes on in my head. But I do wonder if there is a way to, before that these are presented to us, to engage council on kind of how they're feeling, right? Because I think there's some things that are missing in this report. And I think that,
 Yeah, I think there are some things that are missing, right? So I'm just going to use this one as an example. So on slide 23, plan and implement dynamic, broadly partnered talent management strategies. We also had a whole conversation about...
 really pay and benefits for employees. And so kind of just like understanding how that works into what these goals are and, and just making sure that, you know, things aren't lost in translation and that council is able to be a part of what these objectives are. And so again, uh,
 I don't think that necessarily means we all have to get in a room together again, even though we had a great time. I think it could be, hey, this is what we're planning for the team report. Is there anything y'all would like to add, amend, comment on, I think would be helpful, right? Because I think...
 I'm going to use another one as an example. I'm going to not do this for every single thing on here, I promise this will be my last one. But on 1.2, develop and implement and continue building ecotourism, heritage tourism program, improvements in infrastructure, there was also a conversation on doing studies about what we should be enhancing here, what we already have that exists that's important. And I think that should be a part of the strategic plan. So I think I'm just repeating myself at this point and so I'll stop.
 And yeah, so I would just love for council to be a continued part of the conversation on the objectives and the goals. Thank you for the presentation, and I look forward to reading through this booklet.
 DIRECTOR MACKAY Absolutely and that's great feedback and I think that's definitely also the intent as we bring back the goal team reports is to have those types of conversations around specific strategies. And so updates will be provided in terms of what's already underway but also to open it up for feedback on specific things that council would like to see reported. And those can be brought back as a separate standalone operational update. But that that is exactly the intent. So thank you Rep Bonnella for those those comments and feedback.
 Thank you. And with that, we have no other questions. Who does? Mayor Pro Tem. Oh, there he is. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Again, great presentation, Julie and to the rest of the staff. Looking forward to the next couple of months leading up to the budget season, then the official budget season. But as we know, the budget season pretty much goes all year round. So really excited about the
 opportunities we have over the next couple months, not just with the budget, but also looking at possibly bringing a broad initiative there as well. To echo Representative Anello's comments, I do think ways to connect specific projects or ideas or initiatives to the strategic plan, to our strategic planning session, would be a really great thing. In our last, I guess it was 25 and 25.
 Ego tourism, for example, was clearly defined as a priority for the Council as part of our strategic planning session. I think that the Council has followed through with some of the largest open space conservation easements placed in our city's history, with new trailheads and with other opportunities perhaps on the horizon.
 You know, it's always great to have these presentations coming up, not just talking about what we have in terms of strategy, but also looking at what we can do in terms of execution, what we can do for concrete projects as well. But looking forward to it, and thank you for all the hard work. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Ms. Bryan? Yes, sir. The next items are the first reading of ordinances. These are items 15 and 16. Okay.
 there's a motion made by mayor pro tem risada seconded by representative anelo to approve the first reading of ordinances these are items 15 and 16 on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem shortswain thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 17.
 This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12 vehicles and traffic parking prohibited during certain hours and school days only to amend paragraph A to delete certain streets and to add paragraph B to prohibit parking between the hours of 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. school days only on certain streets. Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. Hannah, do you have a presentation on this?
 Good morning Mayor and City Council. Hannah Williams-Allen with Streets and Maintenance. So item 17 is an ordinance amending various Title 1288 subsections and this is in vehicles, traffic and schedules and this is to accommodate the new release times for Montwood High School. Just a short presentation overview. We'll discuss the strategic plan goals,
 We'll hit the purpose of the amendment, discuss the existing conditions, as well as the changes and release times, and then we'll get to our requested council action. This item aligns with strategic plan goal 7.3, and the Streets and Maintenance Department received a request from the residents of Frank Cordova, Michael Andrade, and Luis Gomez to investigate the existing signs.
 The existing signs are no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m., school days only, and no parking any time. There is a residential parking district as well. And this concern from the residents came up because the release time for Montwood was changed to 4 p.m. instead of 345.
 And these pictures are pictures that were provided by the residents. As you can see, the congestion and the parking is a little crazy out there in this area.
 So these are some additional pictures of the existing conditions. We do have pickup and drop off within this area, within the cul-de-sacs, as well as Frank Cordova. We do have blocked driveways and there are parents that are pulling up into driveways and just waiting for parents.
 their students. And also I'm going to play this short clip of a video right here to the right, and you will see that there are two vehicles moving in the same direction next to each other, and this is one lane in each direction roadway, and that does cause a hazard because we do have pedestrians in the area as well as traffic moving perpendicular.
 And so as I mentioned, the existing parking restriction is no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. school days only. There is a residential parking district and then there is just no parking 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. without decal. And then there is also a restriction on Frank Cordova.
 This is just a quick overview of the SISD high school schools and their release times. As you can see there are a number of schools in this area and they all release at or after 4 p.m. And this is a pilot program. This was just brought to our attention this school year. And these are the first residents to to have a serious issue and bring it to our attention.
 So in addition to modifying or amending the ordinance to accommodate the change in the release time, the department is tracking the cost for these signage changes. Just in this area, there's about 100 signs that need to be replaced, and there's a cost for manufacturing and installation.
 And so that does impact our budget. We are also drafting a letter to the superintendents for all independent school districts. And that is just to establish a better infrastructure related working relationship when it comes to amending release times as well as.
 Excuse me, as well as any other, you know, painting the curb yellow or any other types of traffic control issues that these schools might be facing. And this letter, our intent is to have it signed by the city manager and distributed to all the districts, to all the schools.
 And as I mentioned previously, this is our pilot school and we will be investigating the release times and changes as well as the existing parking restrictions around schools. And this is mainly high schools that this change impacts and so that's where our focus is. And if needed, we will again track those costs, reinforce the letter.
 that is in progress, as well as bring back any ordinances that do need to be amended. And again, this amendment here is an overall view.
 This amendment will change the times from 7 to 4 to 7 to 5 school days only in these areas that are immediately around Montwood High School. The first amendment, 12-88041, is parking prohibited during certain hours school days only to amend paragraph A
 to delete certain streets and to add paragraph B. This is the no parking seven to five on streets or parts of streets Monday through Friday on any regularly scheduled school day. And as you can see, this is the Frank Cordova, Mike Andrade and Luis Gomez portion in orange.
 We have our 1288-030 parking prohibited at all times on certain streets to amend the prohibited parking area. And this is Firehouse from Montwood Drive to Seoul-Flyneville Drive on both sides. And the final ordinance amendment is for 1288-200. And this is for restrictions on parking in our residential districts. And this is going to be to amend a particular zone that is 7-4.
 and we're going to delete a few streets and then we're going to go to a different zone which is zone in and we're going to change the time to 7 to 5 and go ahead and add in the streets in blue so effectively that changes all of the existing parking restrictions that have time limits on them to seven to five school days only this is the requested council action per the ordinance amendment
 And this will conclude my presentation subject to any questions. Thank you. So we've been working on this situation for a really long time. I think since before I was elected, I was already out there talking to these constituents. And I'm glad that we were finally able to do something for them.
 it's unfortunate that it's taken so long and that people have grown very frustrated with the whole situation, which is why I continue to advocate to
 seeing what we can do to clear up the red tape to make these types of situations move a little bit faster and being able to give them relief also when they're asking for it and not several years later. So I do appreciate all the hard work that you all did and going out there and really doing your homework and seeing that they really do have a problem. Thank you for sharing those pictures as well.
 So, you know, I do ask for the support of my colleagues on this today I know that eventually this will probably affect everybody. Is that correct Hannah across the city? Okay, so my question is how long before we see these new signs in these neighborhoods I
 So for this particular area, I spoke with our transportation manager and I was informed that it would take about four to six weeks to manufacture the signs and have them installed. Okay and so you mentioned we need about 100 new signs. What's the cost per sign?
 it's about 75 dollars per second 75 dollars okay so this is clearly a big issue right because we've already made the investment and installed the signs once and then the schools change the times and i understand why they change the times um but you know i really hope that it doesn't become another problem again in the future where they just change the times on us again and we bear the cost of the entire project um
 I'm just trying to think here if there's any way that we can be, I guess, frugal about it. And I know that we already manufacture our own signs here in-house at the city of El Paso. And so is there any way that we could potentially just maybe have the signs department maybe make a sticker and put it over the four and just change it to a five? Or does everything need to change completely?
 So a number of the signs are old and they do need to be replaced. However, I have requested that we do everything we can to lessen the burden on us. But to your point for future changes that may be forthcoming, that's also the purpose of the letter in order to ensure that we don't bear this burden alone because it's not like we made this decision or that we knew about it in advance. And the hope is that
 We can have that coordination with the school districts to avoid this in the future. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you and I see Richard did you want to make a comment. RICHARD BESTMANN Yes ma'am I just wanted to add that there is protective and specialized filming on all of our signs.
 And that's where our investment is, is on our film so that they're noticeable from a distance. So the reason that we're going to replace some that have been faded and make new signs is simply for that, for the quality of our signs. Now, for some of these, we're changing them because of a change in the time. But we do have a practice where on good signs, we save them and we try to reuse them later on future projects. So we'll be doing that as well.
 At these steel prices, we try not, we try to be as frugal as possible as we can with any steel-related products. I think that would be the appropriate way for me to say that. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that. So, you know, I really do hope that this brings relief to the constituents of Mottwood. I know it's a burden, and I know it's a very challenging situation around any school, right? So thank you all again for all of your hard work and efforts, and, you know, I hope that we see these signs...
 sooner rather than later and you know continue to bring safety to those neighborhoods because I did see the Students and the cars going next to it's crazy. So thank you once again Thank you very much for this presentation just want to be clear so you said I was gonna be approximately $75 per sign I
 Yes, sir. That is correct. Okay, and right now we don't know exactly based on what mr Bristol's response how many signs there are that'll need to be Replaced modified things like that. That's correct, sir Okay, and it's good to know that some of those signs may be reused again. So that's good. However, my concern is firehouse between Montwood and Sol Klein fell I'm gonna say in the south
 East corner there is a there is a baseball field there and I can tell you from past experience Parents park on that from the very beginning because they want the best seats. They want the best parking So you're gonna impact on them. Has that been considered and I know it's seasonal. I know it's seasonal You're muted
 Thank you. Mr. Bristol please chime in as needed. But so for the baseball the parking lot should be available for those events because they do occur mainly after school. And that's something that the team is going to have to work out with Mottwood High School because they do have a large parking lot that is available for that use.
 Well, I understand that. What I would like to answer is myself and Representative Rodriguez and a couple of representatives from the police department did have an opportunity to meet with the Montwood principal and the assistant superintendent, and we did discuss that and other issues.
 Where we left it is this parking situation on Montwood. This is a step in a series of processes that we're looking at to improve the situation. Another thing Montwood is looking at is possibly moving some of their pickup and drop-off locations as well. So this is still a work in progress. And what we're doing right here is making a correction because, frankly, we have an ordinance restriction that
 for no parking, but it is expiring at 4 o'clock, and the students are getting out of school at 4.15. So the first thing we have to do is get what's the built conditions and the code, get them to match. And then we're going to systematically continue to attack this problem. It may require additional measures, and it's probably going to require additional measures on behalf of the school district. But this is a series of measures
 that we're trying to attack to try and improve the situation in what you mentioned is a big piece of it. And we may not have the solution right here today as we're speaking, but I can guarantee you, this is not going to go away because we have a pledge with not only the residents, but also with the principal. And we will be following up with them with the follow-up meeting now that we'll have this thing changed within the next few weeks or months, as soon as they can offer us that meeting.
 And I'm more than happy to have the conversation with the principal and superintendent again, okay, and I can tell you I haven't worked at Monwood High School. There's a parking has been an issue there where I believe they charge like five dollars for a Registration pass for a year long and they did other things too. I know I'll say it I'll pat myself on the back, but we did spearhead a project with cooperation chick-fil-a and
 that every time they did rewards that they were rewarded with a coupon for some type of combo from Chick-fil-A. And that thing was a great success that curbed so many issues on parking violations, so many issues on other things as well. But because there was such a huge issue with the parking that we were able to work with the community.
 and business community as well and come up with a solution so that these students would not be parking illegally in different areas and encourage them to get their driver's license encourage them to get their vehicle registrations their insurance and stuff like that of course with cooperation of their parents and the registered owner of the vehicles so uh there was a sergeant michael vasquez at montwood high school i'm not sure if he's still there or not but he was uh also a
 Working with that as well. So just a food for thought no pun intended. Thank you Thank you, ma'am Citywide
 Yes sir, it is looking like all of the high schools have changed their times, their release times, and all of our signs go from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. school days only. Okay, because I had the same problem and worked diligently to get the problem resolved at Eastwood High School. Isleta is changing their time as well this year? Yes.
 If they have if they haven't already changed their times then then they are forthcoming So your changes are going to require the school District to notify you how many days in advance? Preferably if as they're planning for it that way we can go ahead and discuss all of this information It doesn't just impact, you know school and their operations, but it impacts And
 an annual meeting with every district so that we can get in front of these things because this is an expense that we didn't see coming well mr bristol i also agree with the fact that they're they're going to be changing times on on the city as well at their school times they should also share the cost part of the message i will support you on that i will support you on that and you can get the schools to to bear the cost as well so um thank you very much for the presentation it was very informative thank you
 thank you representative and with that we have a motion in a second yes mayor there was a motion made by representative rodriguez seconded by representative salcido to approve item number 17 on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem short fine thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 18 is a public hearing
 On an ordinance amending the 2025 proposed thoroughfare system as incorporated into Plan El Paso to delete the future extension of Bill Burnett Drive from Mercantile Avenue to Paseo del Este Boulevard. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Joaquin Rodriguez with the Capital Improvements Department.
 This is a request to amend the city's major thoroughfare plan to delete the north-south extension of Bill Burnett Drive from Mercantile to Paseo del Este and to retain the north-south connection of Bill Burnett Drive from Rojas to Mercantile. This request did approve unanimous recommendation from the City Plan Commission February 10th of this year. This is a map of the existing 2025 proposed thoroughfare system.
 And here you can see the area that north-south dotted orange line is the connection that we're looking at. This is what is being proposed is a removal of that connection, but you can see that the orange dotted line still loops back from Rojas to Mercantile.
 So this request to change is associated with the subdivision application that was approved conditionally by City Plan Commission August 12th of last year. Some background on Bill Burnett Drive. It's a proposed minor arterial directly east of the city limits in the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction. Thank you.
 The surrounding development is primarily industrial and institutional. There is some adjacent single-family development, typical Far East development patterns, but that's further east than the area that we're looking at. Private and public development directly north of the proposed alignment really prevents any future extension of Bill Burnett north of Paseo del Este. So this connection would have minimal impact on the overall connectivity of the surrounding street network.
 Additionally, there are some topographical issues in the area, which led to Paseo del Este being constructed in a highly nonlinear alignment, which is a very curvy road. So again, that impedes our ability to locate a major intersection along its alignment.
 In terms of sort of some of our best practices, the Federal Highway Administration does recommend an ideal spacing of one mile between arterial roadways in fully developed areas. Removing this north-south connection results in a spacing of approximately 1.8 miles.
 However, due to limited development potential of a large portion of the surrounding area based on some deed restrictions, other large institutional property owners in the area, namely the Socorro ISD, it's unlikely that the density in the area will ever necessitate the connection that's being proposed for deletion.
 So after some extensive coordination with reviewing departments, including the County of El Paso, who will ultimately take over maintenance of any roadways in the ETJ, analysis of existing and trending development in the area, and consideration of the submitted traffic impact analysis, staff does recommend approval of the proposed amendment. I'd be happy to answer any questions you might have. No, sir. Representative Rodriguez? Yes.
 Thank you. So I'm just I just want some clarification because I know that this is in this is outside the city limits. So I mean, why are we planning for this if that's not necessarily our land?
 So the state code and the city's local subdivision ordinance do extend some subdivision authority to the extra territorial jurisdiction. So that's the area. It's basically a five mile buffer outside of our city limits. So by extending that subdivision authority, all of our subdivisions are required to.
 comply with any adopted planning documents such as the Plan El Paso and the Major Thoroughfare Plan. So in order for a subdivision to be approved by the City Planning Commission and recommended for approval by staff, it needs to comply with those documents.
 When you think of the major thoroughfare plan in a broader context, it is more of a regional document. We do take into account the impact of traffic patterns and congestion outside of the city limits and the impact that that has on our street network within the city limits. So that's really the sort of the rationale behind the city having some sort of authority in ETJ for MTP issues.
 So my next question is, I know we recently annexed part of Bob Hope around the SAC into the city. So, I mean, does this land right here, I guess, have the potential? Are we just planning ahead because it may or may not be annexed in the future? Sure.
 So there were some major changes to annexation law. I believe it was the 2018 legislative session, which made it very difficult for cities to annex land without the consent of all the property owners who would be impacted by it. In this case, this is part of one of the Paseo de la Este muds. There are some deed restrictions on the land that limit it to manufacturing and industrial uses for a very large section of it.
 So the subdivision application that was submitted was for an industrial development. I believe it's like a warehouse or logistics center type development. So this is the connection that would have been required to sort of pass through that development. Because of the development in the area, the trend in that area is really towards manufacturing and industrial. Based on the traffic impact analysis submitted by the consultant,
 We feel that there's sufficient connectivity in the area that deleting the segment won't have a substantial impact on future connectivity. And that's why our recommendation is for approval. To your question on what sort of development may happen and if we're planning ahead for that, I think the trend that we're seeing for this area really is industrial and manufacturing. If there were a lot of high density residential development
 proposed in the area and we would track that through things like land studies development plats Maybe even economic incentive agreements in the area If there were a lot of high density residential development planned, I think our recommendation would likely be different and we wouldn't be recommending Removal of this segment but because of the nature of the development and trends in the area We feel that this is a reasonable request from the applicant Perfect. Thank you so much
 absolutely thank you there a motion there's a motion made by representative Rodriguez seconded by representative Rivera to approve item number 18 there is no public comment on that motion call for the vote mayor Pro Tem shortly thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 20
 Is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services for geotechnical and materials testing services in support of the streets and maintenance department on a task-by-task basis with LOI engineers? There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item number 20 on that motion. Call for the vote. It's item 20.
 Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby, thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 21 is discussion and action that the city consents to the assignment of the rights, duties, and obligations under the contract 2006-015 to a CIGMI who agrees to perform all duties under the contract as the Friedman contract is transferred to Waste Connections of El Paso, LV, DBA, Barco.
 Good morning City Council. Ellen Smyth, Managing Director of Environmental Services. I wanted to introduce to you today in the council chambers is Scott Berry. He's the representative from Waste Connections and he will be overseeing the recycling facility located on Railroad and Rent. So Scott if you're in the audience if you could just approach the podium so they can see who you are and.
 If you'd like to say a few words. Sure, thank you, Mr. Baer. City Council, thank you for today taking this into consideration today. We hope that going forward that this is a great partnership, just like it has been with El Paso this wozol, and that we look for greater things in the future for recycling with El Paso and with the city. Thank you. Thank you for being here.
 And to answer the question yesterday from representative, I believe it was Rivera about shredded paper Scott would you like to address that question? Sure. Yes again, mr. Mayor City Council will accept the shredded paper For residential housing. We just asked that it be in clear plastic bags so we can see that and I was told that there was some confusion on pizza boxes and
 We'll accept your pizza boxes. You will accept pizza boxes? Yes, sir. Without pizza. Whether or without? Without pizza. Okay, good on you. Take the crust out. Thank you. Representative Rinella?
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. It's very nice to meet you. Congratulations. I'm glad to hear about these changes, but you literally just threw off everything I knew about recycling, so I think that we need to be working together to have some serious PSAs and education. I also know that Representative Schwarzbein is going to ask to postpone this item, and I'm going to support him because I actually didn't know, learn from city staff at all, that Friedman had been sold. I'd heard through the grapevine, but no one had briefed us on this.
 I'm glad to see that there is someone taking over this contract. It sounds like based on this that you you guys are already Changing the recycling game completely and that's really exciting But I know there's been some questions about this contract for a long time questions about recycling They think you have the answers to but I would agree with representative Schwartzman if he is gonna ask to postpone this I think that we need a lot more information before approving this contract which I Ellen I would ask if that's even possible if there's a timeline on this I
 Well Representative I did send a note to the district office requesting with all the information attached and asking if you're interested in a personal briefing which I did give for Representative Molinar.
 But and then I did answer questions from District 8 as well so I apologize if you didn't see that. DIRECTOR HARRIS KINZERBAUM No I just found it in my spam actually when you said that for some reason it was spammed. DIRECTOR HARRIS KINZERBAUM So so I'm in terms of questions on the on the contract it's identical. We're not the only thing we're changing is the termination clause.
 The termination originally 15 years ago was if the city terminated for convenience, the city would buy the facility of the real estate and the equipment and we would own it.
 Waste Connections is not interested in us owning this equipment so we changed the termination to just a flat dollar amount of $160,000 if we were to terminate for convenience. But the reality is there's only eight years left on the contract and I don't see us terminating in the next eight years before we would go out for a new bid.
 um so other than that it's more education and outreach sure i do have some questions though that i don't think are appropriate for this forum so um if representative schwartzman i know he has questions so i'll wait till he's finished thank you well we have representative rodriguez followed by mayor pro tem schwartzman next thank you so yes i have a multitude of questions um
 First off I know that with Friedman I am very familiar with their the process of you know They would send the recycled material over to the ports in Long Beach and then from Long Beach. They were sent over to China What is your process as far as the recycling chain? so currently waste connections throughout the country is contracted with Georgia Pacific and
 a major company that accepts all our recycled material. They broker it for us, and they pick it up, and they sell it within the United States, as far as I understand. Okay, so that's good. We're no longer shipping any of our recycled waste over to China and polluting the oceans on our way doing it.
 i believe the majority is stays with the united states i don't know if there is any that goes to china or not i can double check on that and have a better answer for you okay in the future so you mentioned that you broker it um where are you broken does it matter like do you have like a is it going specifically to for example north carolina or is it going all over the country whatever waste um recycle waste that we produced here in el paso
 Right, so Georgia Pacific picks it up and they broker to wherever they want to deliver it to. I think a lot of it goes to Louisiana, to be honest with you. Louisiana, okay. And so...
 Ellen's or I don't know. Maybe you might know this did Friedman just cease to exist or did they go out of business? What happened? No, ma'am They are retaining their Phoenix and Tucson operations and they've sold the Albuquerque and El Paso facility So they're still in business. They're retaining their name for their other two facilities Which is why the new name here in El Paso is the barcode and is your business moving into the old Friedman facility? I
 Yes. Yes? Okay. We're working on improvements, of course, but yes, both facilities. Okay. Sounds good. I think that's it. I would have liked a presentation as well, but if we're going to postpone it, then hopefully we'll be able to see more there. Thank you. Someone making a motion to postpone? Mayor. Okay. Mayor Pro Temp. Thanks, Mayor. Followed by Representative Molinar.
 Thanks. So I would like to make a motion that's fine. I guess it went in my spam folder as well. Recycling is obviously something that's very important to me. It's something that's very important to this community. I want to understand a little bit more about this relationship that's being proposed. I do appreciate the gentleman taking his time to address the council. I do think that for something this important, I do think it would be good to get individually briefed and to get early information.
 um, big sense about what, what is changing with this contract and what can change, even though it's, it's quote, only eight years of this contract there until 2030. I also think too, with the way that the world is working and our, um,
 other opportunities for economic development that we really need to be taking a deeper look about what recycling can do for this community and it can do for this region as well. I know that as president of the Rio Grande Council of Governments and former president, Representative Manello,
 There's been a lot of questions about creating a circular economy relating towards recycling in this community I just think we need to take a really deep dive into understanding the opportunities that exist with the termination of Friedman, you know, whether Recycling is going to China or to Louisiana It takes a while to get that recycling outside of this community and that is fossil fuel and other based transportation
 impacts as well. So I would like to make a motion to postpone this item until the next council agenda and would like to be brief so we can understand a little bit more about these questions because I do think that there's a lot of questions and it's not based upon concerns. I think it's based more about passion and enthusiasm about recycling and its impact in our community. Second.
 Right and I'm happy to provide a deeper dive into the options that's in front of us but the contract itself the assignment that is posted is just to assign the current contract it is for curbside residential recycling only it is it doesn't include the commercial and the circular future goals like I said this contract is 15 years old
 And so to change it up to include the commercial, the multifamily homes, the circular hubs where we bring in more businesses, that would be a bigger project than just the assignment of the current contract. So I'm happy to brief you on the current contract and then we can also discuss the future.
 That'd be great. I'd really appreciate it. Ms. Pern, do we have a motion? Mayor, there is a motion by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Anello, to postpone the item for two weeks. Would you like me to call the question now? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Sir, what was your name again?
 Scott Barry Barry I just want to say really quickly since I seconded this this is nothing to do with the contractor with y'all taking over Like I said, I'm just based on the very few, you know comments you made very excited that you guys are doing this and eager It's just it's been kind of it's a little shell shock, you know There's been a lot going on with recycling over the last couple years and just want to be totally informed. So congratulations We're excited to work with you
 No, thank you. Incorrect. Just to dovetail off Ellen's comments. This was just today simply to keep us moving forward as our own separate entity, not necessarily Freedmen, because right now we're kind of in limbo as far as who we are in the city, and that was the reason for today's action item. Thank you. Now we have a second. If someone wants to remove the second, we can have a call to the public.
 Is there public comment that we do have a member of the public? Thank you Thank you, sir. No, no, but well now that we don't have it will allow reps. Um, we'll call you in one second Dr. Bonnard what I have Representative Molinar and then And then we'll have call to the public. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor. Sir. Mr. Barry. I
 Come back up and yes, I was briefed by Ellen Smythe on this issue and so The plant there that exists is in my district district 4. So welcome to the neighborhood sir, and we welcome you with open arms however having said that there are some issues that we have received from the Constituents that live in the nearby area one of them there's orders, you know smells and
 I'm not sure exactly what they are, but they smell. So I'm not sure what that is or the source of that issue is. The other thing, too, is when the wind blows, and if you're familiar with Northeastern, are you from El Paso, sir? I live in the Northeast, yes, sir. Outstanding. Great. Anyway. So I'm with you. All right. But anyway, so either way.
 You know when the wind blows trash whether it's paper Other things they it flies into the desert east of that area Into the neighborhoods and things like that. So that's another concern. Okay, and This is gonna be a touchy subject But there is a colony of cats there in that area if you're aware of that, you know And so the community does feed those cats and that's fine. I have nothing against those felines. I
 But there is that issue there, and they do pose an issue when they're going into other neighborhoods and things like that. That's going to be your building, your call on how you handle that, sir, and we'll respect that as well. But like I said, we do have concerns from the community. Reference that. And I'd like to set up a meeting with you sometime later, and I'll get your contact information from Ellen. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you. You know, I just remembered, did you already start operations, or is Freedmen still operating here? No, we have started operations. You already started operations? When did you all start? January 1st was the effective date.
 Okay, so that's the reason why our service hasn't been interrupted you guys just went from one contract to another Okay All right So I guess what I would want to know once I get briefed is what kind of changes you all are bringing to the facility To address some of the concerns that mr. All in our brought it because I know the facility I have been out there It does smell pretty funky and I know it's an older facility and it's you know doing what it's supposed to do But just want curious as to what kind of upgrades you all are doing there. I
 Okay, and we can I can definitely brief you now or in the future with a presentation But as far as currently I can tell you I'll answer the smell question more than likely. It's residual trash That we are working on that. We have actually cleaned up the yard quite a bit compared to what it looked like on January 1st So I hope that that residual trash smell does go down. I'm certain that's what it is and
 Any other products that may have been on the ground may be used as Retaining walls will say have been removed. We're working on actually just shipping head out as product So we are cleaning up the yard that should help with that issue as far as improvements to the building We're currently looking not currently we are going to Replace the optical sorter that was there. It's been out of service for I believe seven plus years and
 So we will have that replaced this year. That's already in the works. As a matter of fact, the representative from the company will be here on Thursday. And then we're looking at other upgrades as we go along with the Albuquerque facility, see how we can make everything function a lot more efficiently. So you're taking over both El Paso and Albuquerque? Yes, ma'am. Okay, and Ellen, are we still going to be picking up the recycled material? And is the city still subsidizing for that?
 Yes, the City of El Paso provides the collection vehicles, the drivers and the blue bins. Okay. All right. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Now we're going to do call to the public. Yes, Mayor. We have Mr. Ray Bonar to sign up to speak.
 So this is going to be a little bit of a little challenge here because I've got to work to Elmo and make the speech at the same time. Will you do that for me? OK. So again, thank you, Mayor and Council, for allowing me to speak. And I'm in opposition of the contract reassignment. And the reason is because I think this is an opportunity that gives you the first right of refusal.
 And you have the ability to terminate the program because it no longer fulfills any public benefit. Financially, it loses millions of dollars every year. I think that Representative Molinar, if you're worried about $75 signs at $100 apiece, you should really be worried about the $600,000 a year this program loses. And that's not even including the cost to pick up the stuff.
 The recycler deposits outside trash in our landfill, and it also is misleading the public because you're virtue signaling. You're saying you're actually recycling when you're recycling very little. It's misleading the public. Next slide, please.
 It costs four times more to recycle than it does just to dispose of gray bin. And as I previously stated, you're losing about $612,000 a year to this program. They're just virtue signaling that we're doing something. And yes, once it leaves and goes to another recycling broker, it's leaving the country. They're not disposing of it in the United States. Less than 5% of it's recycled.
 In fact, if you look at the plastics alone, there's eight categories of plastics, only two can be recycled. Nationwide, this is a problem. It's just ridiculous. And one of the things that you're doing by accepting this is you're green lighting the ability to continue to use our landfill to dispose of outside trash from outside of the county. And that's one thing that you should put in your new contract that you're not going to do that.
 And FYI, Albuquerque, they recycle very little. They even admit that. But the promise that they do make is that none of their recyclables will go into their landfill. That's not what's happening here. And so as you can imagine, since 2006, there's been four iterations of this contract.
 But what we do know is that throughout the 15 years of this contract, there's not been one year where it's made money. It's been a loser from day one. Can you imagine trying to start this program now where you explain to the public, it's like, hey, we're going to enter into this great program. It's going to lose money every year. Very little of the pickup garbage will be recycled. And oh, by the way, we'll be filling up our landfill with other people's garbage. What kind of program could you sell like that?
 you've benchmarked this, you know where you are, you're losing, it's sometimes you have to break with the status quo and do something different. And that's this time. Now you've been given the opportunity because the other guys bailed. So you have the first right of refusal and you should. So in conclusion, if you'll put on the last slide.
 I think termination is the only financially responsible option. As community leaders, you owe it to the public to not waste their money. Thank you, Mr. Bonnard. And second, the landfill would benefit from ending the breakdown. Thank you, Dr. Bonnard. And termination is a source of much needed income. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have a second? No. Representative Anello? So we have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Anello to postpone the item for two weeks.
 on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem shorts by thank you and the item passes with five affirmative votes representative shorts by anelo salcido rodriguez rivera voting i the remainder of council voting no the motion does pass the item is postponed that brings us to the end of the agenda is there a motion to recess until noon
 There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting until known for call to the public. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 1139 a.m. and will reconvene at noon for call to the public. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1203 p.m. We now go to call to the public.
 the el paso city council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge the city council meetings are public meetings under the texas open meetings act public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council all persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language public comment will not be used for personal attacks
 Against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public Use this forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda this afternoon We have eight members of the public that signed up to speak the first person is miss Wally Schick and
 I don't see her in chambers. We'll move to Mr. Efrain Saucedo. Mr. Saucedo's topic is problems with El Paso Police Department. Mr. Saucedo, good afternoon. If you'll approach the podium, you'll have three minutes, sir. You will be followed by Ron Como, Elise Mize, Benjamin Alba. Good afternoon, Mr. Saucedo. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning, sir.
 Good morning. How you doing? All of you? Fine, and you? I'm doing great. Thank you for asking. I'm going to take a minute or three minutes. I don't know whether you guys changed it. It used to be five. That's okay. I got a report from the police department. See if you are more understandable to it, because I don't understand it. And it's going to be on your time, not on mine. Okay? You want to see it? Somebody want to see it? You, Mayor, or somebody want to see it? Sure.
 Now, my name is Efrain Saucedo. The problem that I got with most of the police officers, they are ignorant. They don't even know how to write. I don't know if they are lazy or they don't care about our people. I do care about my people, especially my poor people. They don't have a way to defend themselves. Okay? Simple as that. And I bet you that I've been doing a lot more
 Then you all together, including the mayor, from my city, El Paso, Texas, the capital of the world. Yeah, remember that. It's the capital of the world. I start, I still serve in my country as a volunteer because I love my country and I love my flag. Simple as that. Now, on 11-14, 2021, my son tried to kill me.
 My wife called the police. They took like one hour. It was this Negro or black guy who was in charge who went to my house. The other officer was kind of good. Mr. Salcedo, you've reached the three minutes, sir. Well, it's up to you. You want to hear? We'll look at your police report, sir, and we can talk to you separately, but there's a three-minute time limit.
 thank you sir for coming down here i'm just telling you you got a big problem with the department of the police department okay simple as that yes sir and i'll be back i'll be back next week thank you because i don't like the way they are acting thank you mr special with the poor people the next speaker will be mr ron como his topic is city of el paso animal services
 Mr. Como will be followed by Elise Mize, Benjamin Alba, Barbara Valencia, Mark Valenzuela, Sabrina Soto. Mr. Saucedo, I'll give you your document in a minute. We're making a copy of it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Como. Go ahead, sir. You have three minutes, sir. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to bring your attention at the meeting we had at the shelter. Second in command of animal services stated to you and I,
 Animal adoptions are down 60% across the nation. Remember that conversation, sir? Okay. According to the Humane Society of America and Best Friends, adoptions are down 21%, and Texas is actually above average. So once again, our shelter's management is not telling the truth to you. If these were your managers at your dealership, would they still work for you? Now, that being said, a two-month-old puppy that was killed on our shelter
 for being a scared puppy that they used the nice they killed it these are the records for 2019 20 and 21. adoption polls are down in 2020 they were down 65 adoption and rescue polls down 6 577 in 2021 they were down 6360. the community is giving you guys a clear message they do not respect the shelter when the shelter was built it was designed to kill 100 pets today and look where we are today
 I think your friends headed in that direction that leaves a total of 29 or 12 1937 less dogs were adopted and pulled out of our shelter in two years I'm just gonna mention this because Barbara's gonna go into it 647 strays are missing from our shelter reports from beginning or ending Counts to beginning counts the next month now return to owner was always a big deal for the shelter They always claim 38 percent in 2020. I
 The shelter was down 2,261 return to owners. That's not 38%. In 2021, Mr. Leeser, under the new group was 2,178, which is down 2,254. Mr. Leeser, you said you were going to get the shelter back on track. Look at the red numbers. The shelter's not back on track. We need to get the shelter fixed. We need a new shelter.
 the shelter is not designed for doing what it's doing and because of the amount of strays that we have in el paso and i'm going to say this at every meeting is the shelter's fault nobody in their right mind is going to allow unaltered strays to run the street and not expect to have more strays and that's exactly what they've done time for a change time to eliminate the director thank you mr como the next speaker
 is joining us via teleconference. That is Elise Mize. Miss Mize, if you press star six, you can unmute your microphone. Elise Mize, good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hello, my name's Elise Mize, and I'm calling from Sacramento, California. And I wanted to talk to you today about El Paso Animal Services. I don't know if you're aware, but El Paso is currently on a nationwide watch by animal advocates throughout the country.
 this was caused by your participation in the humane animal support services program also known as haas and the eventual termination of the same program due in part to your participation the insanity of the haas program has gotten a foothold in shelters throughout the country including one of our shelters in sacramento i believe your city is now seeing the fallout of what managed intake does to a community
 You have strays breeding on the street, animals starving on the street, packs of dogs causing havoc in communities. And now you seem to have a shelter manager who is in over his head. The country, the animal advocates throughout the country have seen the recent pictures of the filth inside of your kennels, the mixing of genders of unfixed animals in your kennels, and the overall inhumane conditions.
 Mayor Leather, in October of 2020, as part of your reelection campaign on your own Facebook page, you stated, while I was in office, we established no-kill shelter for El Paso. Let's get it back on track. You took credit for no-kill. So are you now going to take responsibility for the animal services, what it's like in your city right now? Because it is far from no-kill currently. How are you going to get it back to what it was?
 Obviously, your interim director is not doing the job, and I can see that all the way from Sacramento, California. The city council and the mayor have a responsibility to the citizens of El Paso as well as the animals. You ignored the pleas and the facts presented to you about the danger of the HAWS program for almost two years. Are you going to do the same now with the current conditions for your animal services? That's all I have today. I hope you do the right thing.
 And the next speaker is Benjamin Alba, followed by Barbara Valencia, Mark Salazar, Sabrina Soto. Mr. Alba's topic is cats and dogs at animal services. Good afternoon, Mr. Alba, you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Many of us for the longest time have provided much of our time to help control the cat population in El Paso.
 We do this because of the love we have for these animals. Capturing, trapping these cats, it is a very time-consuming and tedious process. It's not easy. The city of El Paso neighborhoods and neighbors have benefited from this. We were able to set up appointments with El Paso Animal Services, take the cats in, then pick them up,
 the next day and return the animals and the cats to their colony. This was working out great. The cat population was finally, finally getting over. We were even able to do this during the pandemic. Animal services, just like many other organizations and businesses just had to adopt, I'm sorry, adapted a little bit during COVID.
 However, for some strange reason, this process was stopped. We were no longer able to set up appointments and no longer able to pick up the cats from animal services ourselves to be returned to their colonies. It is now up to animal control officers to return the cats to their colony. We just did not understand why we had to go through this, I guess, new process when we, as citizens, were able to do it ourselves.
 relieving work or animal control officers to do other duties, such as helping an injured or loose or abandoned cat or dog. Many of us have noticed that this new process is just not working. The reason being is hardly anyone is seeing these cats being returned to their colonies.
 Therefore, people are spreading the word not to take these community cats to animal services because they are afraid these animals are being euthanized or taken outside of their colony by animal control officers. We need to go back somehow to the way we handle the controlling of the cat population. That is, let us set up appointments, we can then take the cats to animal services and
 Let us pick up the cats ourselves so we can return the cats to their colonies. And we do this for free. We don't get paid for it. It will relieve some time from animal control officers to do other things. Thank you, Mr. Alba. The next speaker is Barbara Valencia. She will be followed by Mark Salazar and Sabrina Soto. Ms. Valencia's topic is also animal services. And I please ask you to be mindful and refrain from personal attacks.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Valencia. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. I'm going to go over transparency with El Paso Animal Services. The first page that you're going to be looking at, that is considered an animal inventory sheet for El Paso Animal Services. El Paso Animal Services monthly reports start on the first day of every month at 12 a.m. and end on the last day of every month at 10.59 p.m.
 Everybody knows with inventory you have a beginning balance and an ending balance. The ending balance from the previous month is carried over, and that's your beginning balance for the next month, the new month. It's sort of like balancing your checkbook, or like mayor leaves her nose. At the end of the month, when he has 200 cars on his lot, when he begins his new month, he starts it with 200 cars. But with El Paso Animal Services, that one minute from the end of one month to the beginning of the next month
 Animals disappear and those numbers are not included in the total outcomes from the previous month or the new month as you can see last year 627 animals were unaccounted for if this was a city-run orphanage and there were 627 children missing there would be an outrage So how many children need to go missing before the department and its leadership is held accountable? I would say zero but whatever that number is it should be applied to animal services and
 For the missing animals and the leadership should be held accountable for those missing animals now when you go on to the next page I have submitted to you a couple of shelter reports These are the official shelter reports that are presented to the public and as city doc as official city documents As taxpayers and as animal services being funded by our tax dollars we have a right to expect that our city reports are true and accurate and
 Now, as you can see, when you look at October, I have highlighted the date for the October report in yellow. But if you look down to the pink highlighted one, that is a generated report from April of 2021. Now, if you go to the next page and the following page, that's November and December.
 Those are the reports that were highlighted. But if you go down to the pink one, those were actual reports that were generated back in January. And if you look at November and December, we have both beginning and ending totals are identical. What they're doing is they're using previous reports and they're passing them off as current reports. Presenting false or incorrect city reports or documents is not only insulting to the taxpayers, but that is considered fraud.
 And this isn't the first time animal services has been caught fudging the numbers and passing off fraudulent reports. We have a right to know what is our money being spent on and how is it being spent, and we have a right to have it being done truthfully. At this point, we are asking that an outside independent audit of animal services be done. Thank you, Ms. Valencia. You owe it to us. We are the taxpayers. That's our money. Thank you, Ms. Valencia. Thank you. The next speaker is Mark Salazar.
 He will be followed by Sabrina Soto. Mr. Salazar's topic is ADA coordinator for the city of El Paso. Good afternoon, Mr. Salazar. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser, city representatives, and staff.
 I'm Mark Salazar, a current member of the Accessibility Advisory Committee and former member of the Fair Housing Task Force. I'm here to appeal to you about something related to the hiring of a new ADA coordinator for the city. We learned of Mr. Julio Perez's resignation in December, and since then we've been getting some updates about the replacement efforts in the January and February Accessibility Advisory Committee meetings.
 At the January meeting, the Director of the Department of Community and Human Development told us that the position might be moved to the department, but we weren't given much in the way of further details. We were left with the understanding that public meetings were to be held for the community to give input on the qualifications, skills, qualities, etc. that we would like to see in a new hire.
 Many of us were very pleased to hear this, and we look forward to the public meetings. At the February meeting, we learned that the position would be moved to the Department of Community and Human Development, and we were given a lengthy presentation about the CHD's department and some changes being considered for the position. Specifically, the duties, well, there will be no more...
 accessibility, there would be no more ADA coordinator for the city, but the duties of this coordinator would be under a new position called the equity analyst. When I asked whether the public meetings would be held, when they would be held, the director's answer was something like, we were hoping you all would give us that input here today.
 Although one member did give some input, and although the meeting was near ending and we were asked to send in our input on the next day or so, I feel that it was not part of the agenda for us to give input at that time with such little notice. I also felt very disappointed that the plans for public meetings to the topic were being totally dropped.
 I later expressed my concerns to Brianna Morales, who was running the AAC meetings, and she forwarded my concerns to the Sun Metro director and the CHT director because they were in charge. To date, I have had no further response about possible public meetings. I feel it is very inconsistent to proceed on the hiring and the serious changes to the ADA coordinator position without public input.
 considering all the language by this city about civic involvement, inclusion, civic empowerment, and giving voice to vulnerable populations, etc. If you're going to talk the talk, then please follow through and walk the walk, and let us have our public meetings to give input on this important position. Thank you, Mr. Salazar. Thank you.
 And the final speaker this afternoon is Sabrina Soto. Ms. Soto, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Sabrina Soto and Ms. Soto's topic is denying the El Paso Police Department's current funding request for cannabis prosecution. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, City Council. Good afternoon. We are just 17 days away from recreational sales starting in New Mexico.
 Cannabis is here in El Paso and it's not going anywhere. So many cities and states are decriminalizing cannabis and the city of El Paso should be moving in that direction, not towards continuing the stigma revolving around cannabis, continuing to arrest, prosecute, and give us criminal records over a plant that is medicine. City Council, I ask you to take again consideration the cannabis community that is right here in El Paso fighting for cannabis rights and reform.
 Ever since I started calling, I have heard many Alpacians come to these meetings to talk about numerous projects that are severely underfunded. So why should this additional increased budget request be approved? When the initial budget was $75,000, the cannabis community said it was only going to be the beginning because that number is only going to continue to rise. And yet here we are.
 I want to remind you to come out and meet here the cannabis community on May 7th for the cannabis march Right here in El Paso. I strongly suggest you deny this increased funding request. Thank you City Council. Have a good day Thank you mayor that ends call to the public and we have a motion to adjourn There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed any
 all right and the regular city council meeting for tuesday march 15 2022 is adjourned at 12 26 pm thank you council