Yes, thank you. Thank you.
 Yes sir, good afternoon. This is a regular City Council meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, March 16th, 2021. It is 3.54 p.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding and will begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Present. Representative Anello?
 Present. Molinar. Present. Salcido. Present. Rodriguez. Here. Rivera. Here. Lizara. Present. And Representative Hernandez has requested to be excused from today's meeting. Mayor, we do have a quorum. Thank you, and thank you all for being here.
 as we talked earlier at the work session that it's uh many years since coven 19 has first hit our community and we've lost over 2200 community members and i want to have a moment of silence for them and over the 530 000 that have been lost in our country and also all the ones that have lost all over the world
 So we can just have a moment of silence for all the families that have been affected and will continue to get affected until we continue to get vaccinated.
 Thank you with that. And I want to thank really all the citizens of El Paso, all the businesses that have been complying with, you know, wearing your mask, even though it may not be mandatory, that we know that it may, you know, someone's family, someone's brother or, you know, our coworkers who may be affected. And I thank all the citizens and businesses of El Paso that have actually complied.
 We're it's not it's a little early to go backwards, but I can tell you that we do see a light at the end of the tunnel. And I thank everyone for continuing to wear your mask. And with that, we go to Ms. Prine. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Just a few reminders. Council, please remain with your cameras on throughout the duration of the meeting, even when presentations are on, because this is the only way that we can ensure a quorum.
 Staff, if you're presenting, please turn your camera on. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote,
 Members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Okay, we have the proposed revisions for March 16th, 2021 City Council meeting, page 3, item 2, request to excuse Representative Hernandez. Page 3, item 6, delete per Department of Aviation.
 Page 5, Item 11, move to the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 9, Item 25, delete per purchasing and strategic sourcing. Page 12, Item 32, postpone two weeks per Representative Lozarga. And Page 13, Item 36, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Anejo. Are there any other revisions at this time, Council?
 Representative Schwartzbein, this is Representative Anello. If I may, can we please pull number seven from the consent agenda? Surely. Thank you. Anyone else, council? Okay. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda with the revisions written to the record. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Salcido. Representative Salcido.
 We can't hear you, but I do see you motioning aye. Thank you. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizara? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. If we can now turn to page 13 to item number 36 that was moved to the forefront of the agenda. This is presentation and discussion by Earthworks on environmental impacts of certain projects in the El Paso area.
 Oh, Laura, do you want to take the item that was pulled from consent first? There were two items pulled from consent, Mayor. Would you like to go to those first, or would you like to go to the item that was moved to the forefront?
 Let's go to the ones that were put for consent first. Okay. The first one was item number seven. This is a resolution that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign the interlocal agreement between the city of El Paso, county of El Paso, city of Anthony, Texas, town of Horizon City, Texas, city of Socorro, Texas, constable precinct six.
 San Elisario Marshall Department, Clint Police Department, and the Texas Department of Public Safety for their submittal of the Stone Garden Joint Grant application to the Office of the Governor Homeland Security Division. Representative Nella. Oh, thank you. I don't have any questions or anything. I don't support this grant. I have never supported this grant and will not be voting in support of this grant today. Thank you. Representative Rivera. Motion to approve, sir. Thank you, sir. Second.
 Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number seven on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Nay. Anello. No. Molinar. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representative Schwarzwein and Anello voting nay. The motion does pass.
 Next item that was moved to the regular agenda is on page 5. This is item number 11 This is a resolution to adopt the 2021 amendment and restatement of the city of El Paso profit sharing plan and authorize the city manager to sign the restated prudential retirement specimen governmental 401 a plan adoption agreement Merge it I mean
 partner with 35 since it's the same uh i would request representative i would request we're going to do number 11 now that we just do number 35 at the same time they're similar in nature yes please do okay item number 35 is discussion in action on a resolution to authorize the city manager to sign the restated 457b plan document that adopts and approves their prudential retirement specimen governmental 457b plan adoption agreement again mr rivera thank you sir
 For the benefit of Mr. Cortina, she did a great presentation to me and I believe to the other Council members is what you said. But for the benefit of those in our public audience listening in on these two items, can you explain the actions that are being taken by Council today, please? So we have two different items. One item is related to the 401A, which is item number 11. So what this resolution is doing is it's in relation to our current contract with Prudential.
 and this is to reflect changes that have occurred in federal law over the last several years. It's to update our plan documents to make sure that those changes are reflected in our official plan documents. There's no impact on the city's plan and those federal law changes that have occurred in no way impact or not even applicable to the city's plan. And so what the resolution is doing is basically administrative cleanup to update our plan documents with Prudential. Item number 35 is a similar item. This is in relation to the 457, a deferred compensation plan.
 And what this one is doing is it's again, amending and restating our plan documents with Prudential to reflect the change that the City made when we went to the automatic enrollment for our City employees. Again, no change to our plan. This is just basically administrative cleanup to update our administrative documents or plan documents with Prudential. Thank you. And with that, can you distinguish which one applies to uniform and which one applies to not uniform, please?
 They both so the item number 35 the automatic enrollment does not apply to the uniform But that's our 457 plan so the essential it's doing this is updating our plan documents to apply the change that occurred When we did that change. Thank you, sir Thank you, sir, thank you We have a motion in a second representative Ed and this is to approve items 11 and 35. I
 Yes, ma'am. Make a motion to approve item 11 and number 35. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve items 11 and 35. On that motion, Mayor Potem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Molina. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizara. Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 thank you can we take item 36 now please yes sir if we turn to page number 13 item number 36 is a presentation and discussion by earthworks on environmental impacts of certain projects in the el paso area representative or schwartzbein thank you mayor um i would like to turn this over to miguel escoto who will be leading the presentation thank you
 Hello. Before we get started really quickly, I wanted to ask the IT team if it was possible if I could be allowed access to edit the, to change, go along and change the slides as we're presenting. Would that be possible? Mr. Escoto, that will be possible if you share your screen. Oh, got it. Okay. Let's see. So if IT will allow Mr. Escoto to share his screen, please.
 No, it doesn't appear that I'm able to do that, but that's okay. Okay. Yeah, just wanted to make sure. Okay, IT will bring up the presentation. Perfect. Thank you so much. Yes, sir. All right, well.
 Yeah, City Councilors, Mayor, thank you for making the time for this important item today. My name is Miguel Escoto. I'm a resident of District 1 and West Texas Field Associate with Earthworks. This afternoon we have prepared for you all an in-depth policy presentation that will discuss El Paso Electric's proposed Newman 6 methane gas plant.
 A coalition of community members and experts on renewable energy have come together to provide you this information. And listed on this slide are some of those organizations. So if we can go on to the next slide here. This is an outline for today's presentation. We have two main points that we want to communicate with you all. Firstly, that Newman 6 must be rejected.
 You'll hear from frontline community members that are going to provide their testimony on the moral obligation for this council to stand up against this fossil fuel project. You'll also hear testimony from expert witnesses and interveners of the Newman 6 proceeding in the New Mexico Public Regulatory Commission, or the NMPRC.
 They'll make very clear the case that, especially with the recent NNPRC vote, Numen 6 is too much of an economic burden for El Paso ratepayers. Secondly, we want to communicate that Numen 6 can be rejected. So you'll hear from experts and civil engineers on renewable energy that describe how clean energy alternatives to Numen 6 are not only technologically feasible,
 but also affordable for el paso ratepayers and you're as well as as well as that you'll hear testimony from experts of earthworks describing the legislative pathways that the el paso city council can use in its municipal authority to reject newman six so we hope today can begin a conversation between the city of el paso and this group of technical experts and this coalition
 When we finish the presentation, we'll have a Q&A section, and we invite any of you counselors to ask any presenter questions that you may have. So if we can go to the next slide. But before we begin, we wanted to... Sir, we do have a call to the public. And we do have how many people signed up, Ms. Prine? For this item, sir, we have 10 people signed up. So we have 10 people signed up that will have three minutes to give their opinion on it. So thank you for that.
 So, um, my apologies. Was there a, um, would I be able to continue with the presentation? Please, sir. Okay. May I have the program? Okay, there it is. Yeah. So before we get started here, um, we wanted to include this disclaimer to clarify how today we're providing legislative policy recommendations and not legal advice.
 Just to make that very clear. Avoid any miscommunications. If you go to the next slide, we'll see,
 We'll get started here with Dr. David Garcia to discuss how the impact of Newman 6 affects the health of himself and his family. Dr. Garcia is a frontline resident of the current Newman Generating Station and is an organizer with Chaparral Parents in Action. So if we go to the next slide, Dr. Garcia can get started with his testimony. And I believe Dr. Garcia is with us here.
 We can just wait for them to unmute. Mayor Leaser and City Council members, greetings. We are David and Aida Garcia, residents of Chaparral, New Mexico. We represent the organization Parents in Action. We live eight tenths of a mile north of the Newman plant.
 We, the residents from Chaparral and Northeast El Paso are neighbors because of our proximity to the Newman plant. Since Newman plant is powered by fracked gas, its byproducts are dirty pollutants that are poisonous and drastically contaminate the environment. It is harmful to the ozone layer, but most of all, it is harmful to our health.
 This type of poisonous emissions from the smoke attacks get pretty serious, like today has been pretty windy. And on windy days, those westerly winds rise to the mountaintop of our majestic Franklins. The other speed coming down on the east side, picking up dust particles from Job's 20 acres sand and gravel pit.
 and further east it meets with the Newman plant mixing those nasty dust particles with carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide and the deadliest is the methane gas. As the old analogy goes
 What goes up must come down. Landing on our gardens, rooftops, automobiles, and pastures where cows graze, not to mention the harmful GMOs for the meat products. Its byproduct is upper respiratory illness, such as
 Southwest Valley fever and asthma. It has effects on our elderly, on our children during their early age of development. It is detrimental and a devastation to our health. We, Chaparral Parents in Action,
 recommend greater opportunities to invest in the infrastructure and new technologies such as solar and wind turbine power. And at one time, you know, I was a board member for Gadsden School District. We even explored geothermal that will help us through the transition into cleaner energy while keeping commitments in our communities
 When one wins, all of us win. Struggle strengthens us all, especially when we think of terms of why Newman 6 can be replaced by cleaner, renewable energy alternatives rather than the El Paso Electric's grand idea of a 164 million gas power generator. In conclusion, doing the same will bring about the same results.
 devastating effects. So we, the group in Chaparral in Northeast El Paso, we hope and we pray that the council will see that that is not good for our health. And thank you for listening. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. García.
 And to continue on this theme of health and climate, we have, if we can go to the next slide here, Angel Ulloa, the hub coordinator from the local environmental youth organization, Sunrise El Paso. So, Angel, if you can take it away.
 Okay, can everyone hear me? Okay. Hi everyone, my name is Angel Yoa, like Miguel says. I'm the HUP coordinator for Sunrise El Paso and a part of the Coalition to Reject Human Sick. I want to talk about the alternatives that we have to fracked gas as a source of energy, which is solar. We're emphasizing this point in our presentation because solar energy is something that El Paso Electric has historically deprioritized
 a transition that they have attempted to persuade us against. And we saw this with the duck curve myth used by El Paso Electric in the January 19th City Council presentation, which has also historically been debunked by other environmentalists.
 who say it's not necessary at all to rely on fossil fuels as a backup to solar and even wind turbine energy, but rather even just adding five gigawatts of demand response capacity or battery storage utilization, smart rate designs and regional coordination, which would make us more resilient in this sector would completely eliminate the need for fossil fuels.
 We also can't completely rule out the possibility of 100% solar in the third sunniest city in the nation. Here on this presentation, it lists us as the 10th sunniest city in the world, which is still crazy impressive. Up until 2018, we were only using 3% of that resource, whereas it's gone up 2% in the past two years. And El Paso says they'll double that in the next couple of years, which is only still 10%.
 But El Paso averages 10 hours of sun a day, and that already puts us at an advantage to implement the practices that I just mentioned, debunking the duck coop.
 But I know that El Paso Electric already has their community solar program up and running, which one, proves that solar is possible, and two, is an example of privatization of our natural resources because logistically the program is not fit for everyone, nor is it easily accessible to everyone.
 And then their demand charge also targets solar customers who are not big business owners, but rather individual people and small businesses who don't have the means to fight back against this. This is just super unfair. Our coalition believes that solar energy should be a public right, and that's what we're pushing for within this transition. And then to add to that blow, energy.
 Their panels, if you see them in person, are actually not up to par to what they should be for utility companies such as El Paso Electric, right, who's promoting this program. Just the upkeep isn't 100% fair.
 So in this case, it's really easy to say that solar power doesn't work for the whole city, but if we had panels that operated at their fullest potential, then who knows what we could do with that, you know? We could take Fort Bliss as an example where all of their buildings are retrofitted for solar. So, I mean, there's proof that it's possible, right?
 There's no time to waste on the climate action. We're kind of in that crisis now, and Newman 6 will thrust us further in that, whereas it's going to be hard to reduce or reverse that in the future. So I wholeheartedly believe that a transition to solar energy in our city is possible, and we could be the pioneers of this at a time where it's particularly crucial to do so. And that's all I have to give. Thank you.
 Thank you, Angel. Up next, if we can go to the next slide, we have Rick Gilliam, who is going to discuss the costs of Newman 6 for El Paso ratepayers. And if we can go to the next slide here as well, Rick is the Senior Program Director of Regulatory Policy for the organization Vote Solar and has testified against Newman 6.
 before the NMPRC proceeding. So Rick, if you can take it away. Thank you, Miguel. Good afternoon, Mayor and council members. My name is Rick Gilliam, and I work for Vote Solar as Miguel described. I have over 40 years experience as an expert witness on electric utility issues. I've testified in over 85 formal proceedings before public utility commissions around the country.
 In 2020, Vote Solar intervened in El Paso Electric Company's certificate proceeding before the New Mexico PRC, in which it sought approval to build the Newman 6 gas plant. PRC approval was a necessary first step for El Paso Electric to begin charging New Mexico ratepayers for their 20% share of the plant. For reasons my colleagues will describe, the PRC denied that certificate.
 Utility rates are designed as a cost-plus system. Utilities recover their expenses dollar for dollar from customers and earn a return or profit on its assets for its shareholders. Thus, to increase profits, utilities add assets to the regulatory balance sheet. This well-known bias for utilities to invest in capital assets can undermine potential lower-cost solutions for meeting customer needs.
 This capital bias has long been recognized in utility regulation, leading some states to move towards various forms of performance-based regulation in an effort to mitigate the effects. In the New Mexico proceeding, the company worked very hard to justify the need for Newman 6, even when its own analyses showed cheaper alternatives. The Newman 6 plan is estimated to cost about $160 million.
 Annual costs include about $5 million of operating expenses plus depreciation and, of course, the return on the $160 million asset for the next 40 to 45 years. As filed by El Paso Electric, Texas ratepayers would have been required to pay about $128 million of that capital cost and about $4 million in annual operating costs.
 Because New Mexico denied the certificate, New Mexico ratepayers will not pay any of the Newman 6 costs. Now the company has received approval from the Texas PUC to build the plant, but it has not yet received approval to recover any of the costs from Texas ratepayers. It will need to ask the Texas PUC for such approval, not just for the 80% share now, but for 100% of the Newman 6 costs, operating expense, and related profit.
 According to the company, the original pre-New Mexico decision bill impact was expected to be $1.45 per month for the average Texas residential ratepayer. But now, if EPE builds the 226 megawatt unit as proposed, the impact will be 25% higher or about $22 annually for residential customers in Texas.
 And importantly, Texas ratepayers will be saddled with more electric generating capacity than is needed for some time to come. I thank you for your time and turn it back over to Miguel. Thank you. Thank you, Rick. And to continue on this topic of the impact of Newman 6 to El Paso ratepayers, we have Sarah Gerson as well. Sarah is the Clean Energy Staff Attorney for Earth Justice.
 She represented both solar and the Newman six proceeding before an NPRC. So if we can go to the next slide and Sarah, if you can take it away. Good afternoon. It's a pleasure to be here. Mayor, council members. My name is Sarah Gerson. And as Miguel mentioned, I'm an energy attorney at Earth Justice, where I specialize in representing community and environmental groups before state commissions that regulate monopoly.
 As Miguel also mentioned, I was recently part of the legal team representing Votes Solar before the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission in opposition to EPE's application for Newman Unit 6. This afternoon, I'm going to speak about just one part of the extensive record that we helped build in that case to expose the flaws in the EPE's justification for building Newman 6.
 And specifically, I'm going to discuss the analysis of EPE's own experts that shows EPE could have saved customers money by not building new Unit 6 and instead selecting a portfolio of resources with less gas. EPE hired a consulting firm called Energy and Environmental Economics, also known as E3.
 to compare different resource options because E3 is capable of conducting much more sophisticated modeling than what EPE can do. In fact, EPE gave E3 four specific scenarios to analyze that were each based on actual projects EPE could have selected from its 2017. And the slide that I prepared for you today is a summary of
 both what EPE put in the four scenarios it was considering and E3's findings about the cost of those scenarios in the base case. So to be clear, E3's analysis accounts not just for building the specific resources EPE forced into these scenarios, but also building out other resources as necessary to maintain reliability and keep the system running at
 The information that I'm sharing comes directly from E3's final report to EPE, which I'm attaching to my written testimony. As you can see, Newman Unit 6 is only included in one scenario, which is called Scenario 1. That scenario is not the lowest cost option for achieving EPE's needs and supplying EPE.
 customers with reliable energy. If you only remember one thing about my presentation today, I want it to be that the EPE's own experts found that Newman Unit 6 was not below the cost of permitting customers. And in fact, the only scenario that's more expensive than Newman 6 is the one with an even larger gas plant.
 As you can see, EPE can save customers money by choosing scenario two, which has less than half as much new gas capacity as Newman Unit 6, or EPE can save even more money, about $8 million, according to E3, if it goes with scenario three, which has less than a quarter of the new gas capacity as Newman Unit 6.
 So the trend is clear, the more new gas capacity that you force into a scenario, the higher the cost is up for customers. In addition to analyzing the space case, E3 also conducted various sensitivity analyses, and in each one, again, scenario three was lower cost than the scenario with Newman Unit 6.
 And across all of these analyses, it's likely that E3 understated how much customers would overpay if ETE built Human Unit 6, because it included various optimistic assumptions about the future of fossil fuels, like assuming that the federal government is never going to limit climate. So with that, I'll thank you and be available for questions later. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. And...
 These, as Sarah mentioned, these are going to be written versions of all of these oral testimonies that we're going to submit to Council later on this week. So if there's anything in particular that you want to study more in depth, you can look at those written testimonies. And if we can go to the next slide, we're going to move on here to the next portion of this presentation, which will discuss the feasibility and affordability of
 of alternatives to Newman 6, which could be renewable energy. In this next slide, we're going to briefly amplify the voice of Professor Mark Z. Jacobson. Jacobson is a renowned professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University.
 While Mr. Jacobson could not be on today, he has sent City Council a letter which discusses the technological feasibility of renewable energy in the entire state of Texas. So I'll read a few excerpts from this letter to Council for your review, but again, this is in your inbox for you to look at more closely.
 So reading directly from his letter, Mr. Jacobson says, I specialize in developing 100% clean renewable energy plans for cities, states, and countries. Two recent papers we published, for example, are on how to transition 54 towns and cities in North America to 100% clean renewables.
 and 74 metropolitan areas, including 30 megacities to 100% clean renewable energy. We have also recently published how to transition 143 countries.
 to renewable energy. I'm writing today because we recently developed a study on how to transition the state of Texas to 100% clean, renewable wind, water and solar, WWS energy, for all energy purposes, electricity, transportation, building energy and industry, while keeping the grid stable, even during extreme weather events.
 Attached in Mr. Jacobson's letter is a summary of the study, and the net result is that a transition to 100% clean energy not only keeps the grid stable for every 30 seconds for the two years simulated, but it also creates numerous jobs, eliminates air pollution, deaths from energy, and reduces annual energy costs to consumers as well.
 on the order of 50% compared to business-as-usual fossil fuel usage. In sum, Mr. Jacobson concludes, if more natural gas is built, it will increase costs and produce fewer jobs than if El Paso and Texas transition to 100% clean, renewable wind, water, solar energy. I urge you to consider building only renewable energy and storage in the future.
 And so those are just some excerpts from his letter. I hope you can review it more deeply. But if we go on to the next slide, we'll continue on this theme of
 the reliability of renewable energy. So up next is Michael Goggin, a vice president, the vice president at the consulting firm Grid Strategies. He served as a technical expert for Volt Solar in the Newman 6 case before the NMPRC. So Michael, if you can take it away.
 Yeah, thanks, Miguel, and thanks, Council, for having us today. I want to talk briefly about the reliability and economic risks of excessive gas dependence and also how renewable energy and storage can be a more reliable and more economic mix for El Paso.
 I've testified in roughly a dozen state proceedings around the country relating to utility generation, electricity planning mixes. And what we've always seen is that a more diverse portfolio of generation of fuel sources gives you a more reliable and it protects a more reliable output and also protects consumers from the unexpected fluctuations in the price of any one fuel.
 el paso electric gets two-thirds of its generating capacity from natural gas um you know in your if you're doing your investment portfolio you wouldn't put two-thirds of your money into a single stock i think it's just basic kind of prudent planning that you don't want to put all your eggs in one basket and last month we got a glimpse of what can happen if you are overly dependent on any one fuel source well what got the headlines was the obviously kind of
 outages that occurred throughout the other parts of Texas in the ERCOT grid. But El Paso electric's gas generation was also severely affected by the severe weather during the third week of February. So this is the chart from the Department of Energy showing the generation of El Paso electric for the month of February. And the red, the six days there that are kind of highlighted with red at the top, are
 or the week when the extreme cold snap hit.
 and electricity demand skyrocketed. And what you can see over that week is that natural gas generation, which is the brown line, dropped off dramatically. More than half of El Paso Electric's gas generation dropped off over the course of that week. I don't have the data to tell you whether that was because the price of gas was too high and it wasn't economic to run those plants, or if the plants had outages due to the cold weather taking them offline,
 or they just were unable to buy gas, and so they had to shut down. Ultimately, it doesn't really matter. Either way, that's either a major economic risk to the ratepayers if gas is too expensive when you really need to use it, or it's a reliability risk if the plants simply aren't available at all when you really need them.
 However, what you can see from this chart is solar performed very well during that week. That's the orange bars at the bottom there. Solar panels actually do better when it's cold out. They operate at higher efficiency at lower temperatures. So solar played a big part in keeping the lights on. If we go to the next slide, we can see that fortunately during this event, what El Paso Electric was able to do, and this is showing, so the blue line at the top is El Paso Electric's electricity demand.
 The orange line at the bottom is their actual generation. And the difference between what they're consuming and what they're producing is imports. So what they did during this week is they were importing large amounts of power from their neighbors. And this was able to keep the lights on and save the day. In past events, they've not been as lucky. Ten years ago in February, I imagine many of the folks on this call remember there were outages for several days in February.
 in February due to a similar event where a number of gas plants failed in the cold. Unfortunately, none of these types of events were not accounted for in El Paso Electric's analysis. They assume that all gas power plants are equal arrival at all times, and they never modeled an event like this where you would have multiple plants affected by the loss of a single gas supply field or of a single pipeline, which has now happened twice.
 On the next slide, we can talk about what we can do to build a more diverse and therefore reliable and affordable portfolio. And that is bringing in more renewables. Solar has no moving parts. It does really well. It doesn't break when you have a cold snap.
 Wind plants do well, and when you aggregate a diverse mix of wind and solar over a large geographic area, you can overcome some of the local variability you see with wind and solar because the wind is always blowing somewhere, or if a cloud is passing over a solar plant here 10 miles or 50 miles or 100 miles away, that's not going to be happening. And that's how you build these portfolios to get to very high levels of wind and solar.
 Battery storage also plays a big part in working with those to, for example, charge up during the day and then discharge at night. And these technologies, renewable storage and transmission, provide reliability services as well or better than conventional power plants. There have been massive technological improvements over the last decade that have brought the cost of wind energy down by about 80% and solar down by about 90%. Those technology advances also have allowed
 renewables and storage to provide the grid reliability services that are needed to keep the lights on. And I often use the analogy of what we've done is we've transitioned from old power plants that were large rotating masses that were kind of like the old way we used to listen to music with either cassettes or, you know, record player or CD where you'd have the rotating device would change the speed and that would change what you were playing.
 We've obviously all now moved to digital music players and MP3 players. It's better. It's more controllable. You can do basically digital control gives you lots of features that the old rotating machines don't.
 When solar batteries are all digitally controlled devices, they can respond dozens of times faster to a grid operator command to regulate frequency or voltage on the grid. They can respond faster to disturbances. And solar can absorb power. You know, during the middle of the day when you've got plenty of sun, it absorbs that and it can release that later. Natural gas plants can't do that. Natural gas plants are much slower and they don't have all these neat programmable features that, you know, wind, solar, and storage do.
 So there are a number of compelling reasons why we want to increase the amount of wind and solar and storage in El Paso Electric's generation mix. We don't want to increase the gas mix. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Michael.
 This is a huge important, that's why a huge important issue and aspect of Newman six, right? The reliability of renewables and the price of renewables is an alternative. So our next presentation present presenter, if we can change the slide here is Ryan Brown. Ryan is a energy policy analyst and was an intervener as well in the NMPRC proceedings for Newman six. So Ryan, if you can take it away as well. Can you hear me?
 Thanks, Miguel. Mr. Mayor, city councillors, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Ryan Brown. I'm an energy policy analyst, and I was an intervener in the NMPRC proceedings for Newman 6, as Miguel mentioned. I previously worked as a research fellow at the UN Economic Commission for Europe within the group of experts on renewable energy and as a consultant for the EU energy community.
 I have two master's degrees from the University of Texas specializing in energy and climate policy with an emphasis in the political economy of energy infrastructure and decarbonization. And just as a personal note, my mom and her seven siblings were born and raised in El Paso, and I spent a lot of my childhood there. El Paso is my second home.
 So back to the analysis, I suppose. In 2020, the International Energy Agency, IEA, announced that solar PV is now the cheapest electricity in history. Both solar and battery storage technology have dropped in price roughly 80% in the last decade.
 This may seem abstract, but when we look at El Paso Electric's recently approved projects, we can see how solar plus battery storage in a region such as El Paso with immense solar resource can beat gas combustion in terms of price. The Hecate Solar Farm has contracted with EPE for a price of 1.49 cents per kilowatt hour, one and a half roughly.
 From EPE's own testimony, the utility estimated Newman 6 to have a levelized cost of electricity, LCOE, of 7.6 cents per kilowatt hour over its 40-year lifetime, more than five times the per unit cost of a cop day. Additionally, a shorter lifetime would entail a higher per unit price for electricity, and EPE has been so far vague as to how long or even how it plans to run the turbine.
 Will it be converted to hydrogen? Will carbon capture be added? And at what expense? These additional, substantially costly, and unproven in large-scale technologies are the last gasp of a dying fossil fuel industry, and would be a mistake for El Paso to pursue. Solar is here, now, the cheapest electricity in history. But what about at night, or cloudy days?
 The Buena Vista Solar Plus Storage Facility once again beats Newman 6 on a per kilowatt hour basis. EPE testified that it estimated an LCOE for Buena Vista of 3.1 cents per kilowatt hour, including charges battery, which stores excess solar to be used when needed. This is less than half of EPE's Newman 6 estimate at 7.6 cents per kilowatt hour.
 The large upfront capital cost of Newman 6, which went through without competing bids, is important to EPE because as a regulated utility, its assets determine the size of the return on investment provided to shareholders. The CEO's fiduciary responsibility is to EPE's investors, not the people of El Paso.
 Signing low-cost purchase power agreements for solar does not benefit EPE and furthers the demise of an obsolete industry and business model. In fact, EPE has kept quiet its October NMPRC approval of an additional 70 megawatts of solar capacity to meet its 2020 New Mexico Energy Transition Act requirements. 50 megawatts will be added to the Acate plant and 20 megawatts will be added to the Buena Vista plant.
 both at less than two cents per kilowatt hour. If required by policy, EPE can and will integrate more solar into its energy mix. But each solar PPA it signs diminishes the role of utility and reduces its potential return for shareholders, thus outside of EPE's interest. In conclusion, EPE is acting in its own interest by constructing Newman 6 and downplaying the rate-reducing benefits of solar,
 EPE is also acting in the interest of its parent company affiliate, JPMorgan, who has substantial investments in Permian Basin Gas. El Paso Electric is not acting in your interest by constructing Newman 6, not in the interest of your health, your environment, your pocketbook, or your future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much, Ryan. And if we can go to the next slide here, we'll get into the final section.
 portion of this presentation. So, so far, I hope we've made very convincing arguments as to why Newman 6 must be rejected. So now we're going to focus a little bit more on how Newman 6 must be
 it can be rejected what you can do as city councilors to stand up for your community and to begin this uh discussion um we have here um the earthworks west text the earthworks texas field analyst um jack mcdonald um if we can go to the next slide here he's going to talk about the regulatory relationship between the city of el paso
 and El Paso Electric. Hi, everyone. I'm Jack McDonald, and I'm just talking a little bit about this interaction between El Paso as a city council and EBE. So as I'm sure a lot of y'all are aware from the winter storm that happened a few weeks ago, because this was a big news topic, Texas deregulated their grid in 2002 under a bill called SB7.
 Deregulating the grid created really two systems across the majority of Texas. In some municipalities, there are privately owned for-profit generating companies that compete for consumers. In those cases, if a consumer is unhappy with the rates that their current provider is giving them, they can just move to another consumer. They have the choice to basically pick where they want to go, and that market pressure basically checks abuse against those utility companies.
 The alternative are munis, or co-ops, which are owned and run by the people and provide that power without competition, i.e. the people can't choose where they get their power, but because the power is run by a non-profit that's owned by the people, there isn't the need to check abuse by a for-profit company.
 El Paso is unique in that it has neither of those systems. El Paso avoided deregulation in 2002 and instead maintained El Paso Electric as its sole provider of electricity. So what that means is that El Paso Electric is both for-profit and has no competition. There's no market incentive to check abuse from El Paso Electric.
 because the people of El Paso cannot simply switch to another plan with another provider if they're unhappy. That option does not exist for the people of El Paso. This is a really unique situation that does not exist in any other major city in Texas, with the one exception being Indiana.
 Amarillo and Amarillo has some like nuances that make it a little bit of a different deal but because that El Paso has a really unique relationship with El Paso Electric that is controlled via the franchise agreement franchise agreement is the document that is used by the city council to basically allow for public input on El Paso Electric this was basically the agreement that was brought to in order to allow El Paso Electric to maintain its monopoly
 In short, it's the way that the public has input in order to check the abuse that El Paso Electric could have done, given the fact that there's no alternative for people to get their power. Thank you, Jack, for that context, which is very important. As we move on to the next portion of the presentation, if we can change the slide.
 what your paths are, what your options are as a City Council. And to present on that, we have a final expert testimony today from Aaron Mintzis from Earthworks. He is the Senior Policy Council and he's going to talk about what you can do as a council. Thank you. Thank you, Miguel. I appreciate this opportunity.
 Mayor and councillors of the City of El Paso, my name is Aaron Mintzes. I'm Senior Policy Counsel at Earthworks. As you just heard from Jack, the City of El Paso has a franchise agreement.
 with El Paso Electric and that franchise agreement is detailed in a city ordinance. That ordinance is 16-090 and the city of El Paso has, over the course of that franchise agreement, amended the ordinance many, many, many times, including most recently in, I believe, February,
 of last year, about 13 months ago. And also considered earlier drafts from the month before that and even the month before that.
 Amending the city ordinance that governs the franchise agreement between the city and El Paso Electric is a matter of routine business for the city council for all kinds of really important reasons. Most notably, in the last amendment, there were two measures that I would like to probably discuss briefly today.
 but the ultimate solution that we would really like to seek from the city is to amend the ordinance once again. The way we would like the ordinance amended is to provide a little bit more transparency to the council and to the city and to the people of El Paso both over the renewable generation study but
 but also with respect to some of the rights of way and other land use agreements that the city may engage in with El Paso Electric. And so first, just with the renewable generation study in February of last year,
 The last time the city amended the ordinance, they allowed for the creation of this renewable generation study that EPE is going to conduct. My understanding, in good faith, is that EPE is due to make a presentation, I hope, before this city council as soon as this summer.
 on the results of their renewable generation study. It is unfortunate that the last amendments to the city ordinance did allow EPE to shield from the public some of the information that would go into that renewable generation study. I don't think that that change was necessary. And so part of the transparency we might want to seek from El Paso is repealing that part of the ordinance that allowed EPE to designate some of their solutions
 information for their study as critical infrastructure. Critical infrastructure is a state of Texas term of art that allows them to exempt that information from a public information request, the Open Governments Act. If we could go on, though, to the next slide, please. The
 Other kind of amendment that we'd really like to see is – I'm sorry. I'm trying to go over to my side. Ah, yes, the rights of way, the rights of way in related land use agreements.
 The last time that the city amended the ordinance, they really encouraged the facilitation of these easements, rights of way, access, other land use agreements between El Paso Electric and the City of El Paso. And what we would like the city to do now is to amend the ordinance to revisit these agreements between El Paso.
 the city and EPE over these various rights of way and other land uses.
 We can go into more specifics of this at a future time, but the idea, obviously, is we want to grant, again, more transparency to the people, to the council, and maybe a little bit more discretion to the council over those agreements, and perhaps even choose other land uses than the ones offered by the utility. Finally, and this is the last point, we've been very grateful to the city of El Paso for its...
 consistent and determined advocacy before the Texas Public Utility Commission. We appreciate that the city has advocated that the Texas Public Utility Commission reject Newman 6.
 While we didn't get that result from the in October, we believe that there have been some changed circumstances now in light of the New Mexico public regulator, New Mexico PRC's decision we heard about earlier. And so in light of those changed circumstances, we believe that it's appropriate for the city to explore ways it might respond.
 urge the Texas Public Utility Commission to amend or perhaps even revoke the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity, or the CCN, that the PUC issued, EPE in this case.
 So we can talk about that. Thank you so much, Miguel. I appreciate your time. We're urging the city to amend the ordinance to create a little bit more power to the city and to the people, and then finally to perhaps to seek resolution again before the PUC in light of the changed circumstances described earlier. Thank you, Miguel. I appreciate your time. Mayor, this is Representative Rodriguez. I'm sorry to interrupt, but can I please get clarification from our city attorney that we're not in fact receiving legal advice at this moment? Thank you.
 Ms. Neiman? Members of Council, this item was put on by Representative Zanello and Representative Schwarzwein who invited this group to speak. Several members of the group have stated that they are lawyers in other parts of the country. They are not lawyers in the state of Texas and are prohibited from providing you with legal advice.
 Number two, my position on this item is Earthworks is an entity that feels very strongly about renewable energy. The question that I have for the group is if they were so willing to make these arguments in New Mexico, why they did not make the same arguments in the state of Texas where El Paso Electric and the PUC have jurisdiction over the utility that is provided and the electricity that is provided in El Paso?
 So I would remind council that although the group appears to have some knowledge of information about the workings of El Paso Electric, they have not been hired by this council to provide you with legal advice and should be considered on its face value the opinions of a group that appears to have some knowledge.
 or policy position in regards to El Paso Electric? Mrs. Neiman, if I can, since I posted, one of the members of council that posted this item, first I want to say that Earthworks was very clear at the beginning of this presentation that they were not giving legal advice.
 Secondly, if you remember about four council meetings ago, I asked that our legal department would put together an executive session item to discuss these legal matters. You and I did have a follow up conversation with that. That item has not yet been presented to council.
 Again, this group has made it very clear that they are not presenting a legal argument. Their presentation has gone through the city's legal department. In any conversation in regards to the legality of these options, I would hope that we would have already had or will have with you on a separate item. So thank you for allowing me to clarify.
 So number one, Representative Manetto, that executive session item will be on the 29th. Number two, I have never seen this presentation and it was not cleared by our office. And had it been sent to me, I would have made a conversation and had a conversation with this group about the arguments and the conversations and the opinions that they have expressed here today. So absolutely not, ma'am. My people did not see this presentation.
 Ms. Neiman, for clarification, I'm sorry, Mayor. Please go ahead. I didn't send you a text. When an item is posted on the agenda, isn't the backup supposed to be included as well? Yes, ma'am. That's my understanding.
 And I apologize, it was Miss Mary Katz who saw the presentation. But I have an email from her. Miss Katz is a clerical staff in my office, Representative Anello, she's not a city attorney. Sorry, it was posted with the item and I'm sorry that it did not go through legal. I went through the process of posting it through the clerk. All right, Representative Anello, can we, I'm gonna allow if Mr. I think his last name is Scotto.
 If you could just wrap it up, I would appreciate I know you're on your last slide and I will take public comment and we will move on with our city council meeting. So if you could just wrap it up, sir, I would really appreciate that. And and so we can respect to our city staff and and 13 members of the public that would like to speak. Thank you. So what we hope, as I mentioned in the beginning of this presentation, is to begin the conversation.
 As was made clear, this isn't legal advice. And what we want to do, if we can go to the next slide, is go into more of a discussion. These panelists are here to answer your questions. So if there's any question that you have, counselors, about anything that was mentioned, please ask us. But these are our concluding remarks, that NUMANC 6 is a danger to our health, economy,
 economy and environment that there's an alternative and that there are actions that you can take so thank you and i appreciate that and from this and i and i'm going to move on to public comment at this point thank you again yes mayor we do have 13 members of the public that signed up to speak the first person is mr javier miranda he will be followed by abby perea isabel aranda
 and Ana Fuentes. Mr. Miranda, star six, sir, to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes to address council. I'm sorry, you said you need my telephone number? No, sir, you may speak, sir. You will have three minutes. Thank you. Good afternoon, mayor and city council. My name is Javier Miranda. I'm part of the folks that are calling on current city leadership to make amends for the previous city administration's blatant disregard of our community's opposition.
 of the sale of the El Paso Electric Company to JPMorgan Chase. As if incurring the highest rates in the state and region wasn't enough, we must potentially endure toxic emissions as a result of the approval of the Newman-Figgs power plant at a time when climate change has already resulted in the depletion of our water sources and forcing us to consume reclaimed sewer water.
 So climate change compels us to reject the Newman 6 power plant, which would be powered by the water intensive and toxic process of fracking. Rather than continue on a self-destructive path, we ask the city leadership to heed the community's voice and consider that if population and economic growth are to take place, we must do it in a responsible manner.
 Consider the security of a renewable energy system owned by our community, which would entail the conversion of our municipal, commercial, education, and residential properties to solar power energy sources. In less than 10 years, the associated assistance alone would pay off our municipal debt, as well as an underfunded police pension system. So consider the benefits of embracing the Green New Deal in terms of taking advantage of our geographic setting and the educational opportunities for the children of our community.
 Rather than accept the brain drain, our secondary as well as our post-secondary learning institutions would prepare our children for a green economy, which would subsequently provide living wages to folks on both sides of the border. We have the natural and human resources to ensure our border community is well positioned to face the environmental and economic challenges associated with climate change.
 It's a matter of taking the bold step of denying corporate influence and personal profit in favor of embracing human and stewardship of our planet. Please reject the Newman-Siggs project. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Abby Perea. Ms. Abby Perea, good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes.
 thank you so much this is ab ferrea i am a resident of el paso and thank you for having me i'm come as a member of the community i want to thank all the experts coming over here uh to you know get the facts
 And to just keep this short, I just want to just express to the council that we have been working really hard to provide these arguments, to provide this information. And this is in specific response to Councilmember Rodriguez's.
 And it just seems that as many meetings as we have, it feels like we are not being listened to. So I think it's just important to follow what these organizations are doing. These organizations that are working on issues that are,
 frankly popularized by the people and popularized because these are things that people the majority support um so if we don't feel like you're listening to us we can't we it's difficult to work around um when you tell us that there that we haven't been making these arguments
 Now, I apologize. I am not, again, an expert. I am a member of the community as well. But I don't need to have a PhD in these areas to know that what's going on right now is wrong and that we need to feel that city council is there for us. And I'd like to thank Council Member Aneldo for showing her support and actually listening to us.
 And we need to take that very, very seriously. And I'm also just... I apologize.
 So it feels very, very frustrating because the public is speaking and yet we see, and as a result, right, Council Member Hernandez going to take pictures at the Newman unit, as well as Molina, who I had a call a couple weeks ago who told me that there was nothing that could be done. And it seems like we're over here presenting
 presenting the facts, presenting the arguments, presenting the fact that this is going to be saving so much health, so much harm, so much money, and I just don't understand why there's not a sense of urgency. And I understand that a common thing to say is, well, we can't just expect to flip the switch, and it's not about that. But there's a feeling that there's only a bare minimum being done.
 So we need you to show that you're doing more than that and actually listening and that you can actually be creative about these things. So again, I'm not a huge expert on this, but as a member of my community and seeing this being done in my back door, it's disheartening to hear that you haven't been listening to these arguments, Council Member Rodriguez, that you haven't been hearing our information and that you're not following with us.
 with that. Thank you, everybody. You've reached the three minutes. Thank you. Thank you. The next person in the queue is Kenneth Bell. Kenneth Bell, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Yeah. Well, can you hear me? Yes.
 Awesome, sweet. All right, so my name is Kenneth Dunlap. Thank you all for taking the call. I am calling one city council to oppose the Newman Ticks project. And as Earthworks and Sunrise El Paso has proven, this project is based on lies and straight up corporate greed. November 17th, 2020, I attended the PCEQ forum on the Newman Ticks proposal. At this meeting, the faculty and district representative said some things that I found concerning.
 First, they said that the construction of the Newman 6 generator would not guarantee the closure of the existing generators. Not only that, El Paso Electric representative stated in clear language that the rate payers are going to cover the cost of Newman 6. And so their SWCC PR campaign is based on the premise that Newman 6 will not only replace outdated generators,
 but they also save us money. But when the decisive moment comes, they tell a different story. They tell you all one thing, but they tell the state regulators another thing. So for those of you who couldn't attend the TCEQ meeting, Sunrise has provided the entire recorded meeting on their Facebook page, all three hours of it, so go ahead and check that out, just so that you can see that what I'm telling you is true.
 and i will remind you in case you weren't aware that last year at the february 4th city council meeting when infrastructure investment fund made their proposal to buy off after lessons their representative made it clear that at some point they would attempt to recuperate their costs so in case you weren't aware that means they're charging up for it they have every intention of making your constituents pay for the cost of million six to pay for them
 doing whatever the hell it is they want to do in El Paso. So the narrative that El Paso Electric is taking all of the financial risk, that all of this is done in the name of altruism, is a lie. El Paso Electric is lying to you.
 but nothing more than a welfare check by jp morgan infrastructure investment fund son jupiter and uh el paso electric and their ceo kelly tomlin previously city council voted unanimously against human six you did the right thing back then and i encourage you to continue doing the right thing by rejecting it again thank you the next speaker is alyssa garza
 ELISSA GARZA, STAR 6, PLEASE, TO UNMUTE YOUR TELEPHONE. GOOD AFTERNOON. YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES. CAN YOU HEAR ME? YES. OKAY. THANK YOU. HELLO. MY NAME IS ELISSA GARZA AND I AM A RESIDENT OF DISTRICT 7. I'M AN OPPOSITION OF THE EXPANSION OF NAMEN 6.
 We need to transition to renewable energy and ensure fossil fuels as the presentation mentioned. It is imperative our Paso City Council takes legal measures to reject the plant. The winter storm was just another example that proves we can't rely on fossil fuels and privatized corporations to take care of our communities. We must ensure our community transitions to renewable energy, have safe air quality, and we achieve environmental justice for all.
 In addition, I want to make it clear that district representatives should represent citizens from their district, hence the title representative. I, along with others from the Coalition Against New Mistakes, have tried contacting District 7's representative, Henry Rivera, to discuss this issue, and we can never get through via phone or email, and the voicemail is always full. As website states, I look forward to working with my constituents to address the needs of District 7 and to enhance the quality of life for everyone in our great community.
 Quote, how can constituents work with their representatives to address the needs of their district if communication is limited or in this case non-existent? So once again, I want to encourage El Paso City Council to reject Numen 6 and take a stand against El Paso Electric. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner, star 6, please. Are we on? Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon. Excuse me. Good evening, Council. I am against this.
 And there's several reasons why. One, our most precious resource we have in our county is water. This facility will require a lot of it. So not only will our electric bills go up, so will our water bill. And I don't think there's a soul in this town that wants to see those go up. And given the rate of technology advancement, storage for batteries to back up the grid, that plant may not even run after it's built.
 So do you want people, your rate payers, to be paying for 40 years for something that's sitting idle? If we're lucky, it'll run for 10. But technology is advancing so fast, new laws will be coming down the pike, and that stuff is just going to sit idle while we pay the bill. Companies are going to want to invest in cities who have gone green. That's just a matter of fact. It's good PR for them. So let's do something we always do every now and then, lead the way.
 we need to go solar we need to go win now let me say what i let me express my displeasure in what i just heard my city attorney my city attorney is supposed to be unbiased that didn't come across as unbiased this presentation is in the backup i even looked through it i know it's there so if nobody looked at it whose fault is that is it the folks that put this presentation up no
 Somebody's not doing their job. It's there for anybody to look at. So I don't know what's going on. Mayor Leaser, you were elected because we didn't want this kind of thing going on because this is what we had under our previous mayor. That's why you got the big vote. We wanted open, transparent government with decisions being made. This is a bad decision being made and it's starting to stink after what I heard.
 So I don't know what you all plan to do, but don't burden the ratepayers. Deny this. Let's lead the way. Let's go with renewable energy because that's the only way to go. That's where we're going, folks. So let's not waste our money or my money or even your money on this boondoggle. Let's go renewable. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Christian Marquardt. Christian Marquardt, star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Hi, can you hear me?
 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Hello, my name is Christian Marquart and I'm a constituent of District 8, as well as an organizer with Sunrise El Paso and a graduate student at Columbia University whose credibility rests in my knowledge and perspective as a master of social work, familiar with policy and the devastating effects of environmental injustice on communities such as our own.
 as a dedicated community member i am completely against this project as someone who is born and raised in el paso as i believe in providing our community with safe clean alternatives for energy we are grateful for most of the council members supporting rejecting this plant but recently we noticed cassandra hernandez endorsing it on her social media which was most unsettling and disappointing considering she has received donations from her campaign from steve ortega a real estate property lawyer who lobbies for el paso electric
 I noticed she is not present in this meeting today, and I am here in the middle of working class to be able to speak and share how awful it is that she was excused from her job on a day when we would be present to speak against this project. I would urge each of you to speak reason with her to understand how this plant is unnecessary, and the community will support her if she chooses to support us. Instead of El Paso Electric, who is no longer a public utility and has been sold out to J.P. Morgan, who leads the climate crisis on a global scale.
 We have also felt especially neglected by Carla Neiman, a city attorney who has a duty to serve the community, not El Paso Electric, and yet has done everything in her power to only tell us that there are no legal avenues, yet there still are. I'd like to ask her what exactly is in it for her. Does she live far enough from the plant that she doesn't care, or is her income high enough in our city that she doesn't care when the rest of our community has an income that averages only $23,000 a year? It is shameful. Thank you.
 El Paso Electric has made no promise to remove the other generators if you look closely into their permit signed off in 2019, which is a public document. There's no promise that the project will only cost $160 million. What we need to think about is what fracking does. We inject two to eight millions of gallons of water into our soil with chemicals that break open the earth to force out these gases. And in turn, we get tainted soil, dirty air to breathe into our lungs and water that becomes so toxic that we can set our tap water on fire.
 My mother and I lived within three miles of a sarco. My mom lived in the same apartment for about 30 years before a sarco closed down. She developed a rare form of cancer in 2010 that was estimated to be a result of exposure to these toxins, and it was not genetic.
 and could only form due to external circumstances such as environmental factors like pollution she passed away three months ago and i share this with a lot of pain and knowing that she was exposed to something so violent yet this testimony is vital to share for the sake of our community we would be doing exactly the same thing to the residents of chaparral in northeast el paso and a reminder that a sarco was not even as bad as a fracked gas plant so imagine the disturbing power human sticks will have over our community inducing health problems and affecting
 our economic stability. We cannot be silent in a moment when our community needs us the most. If we are talking about investments, let's invest in the community and their health and in our economic stability. Mayor Leaser, we trust that you will stand with us
 And it is within our ability, within your ability as city council members, and it is within our rights as a community to reject this class. Thank you. You've reached the three minutes. Thank you. Thank you. You've reached the three minutes. Before we go on, I'll remind the members of the public that this forum is not to be used for personal attacks against any city staff or member. The next person is Mr. Josh Simmons. Josh Simmons, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Josh Simmons, he will be followed by Samantha Cooney.
 Josh Simmons, star six, please. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. You're on mute, Mr. Simmons, star six. Good afternoon. We'll return to Mr. Simmons. I think he's having technical difficulties. Samantha Cooney, star six, please. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead, Ms. Cooney. Hello. Hi there. Can you hear me? Yes. You have three minutes, ma'am. Hi there. Hi there.
 As members of City Council, you are charged with representing your constituents and their needs. I am a constituent of El Paso. My name is Samantha Kinney. I'm a doctoral candidate in political science. And as a constituent of this community, we are telling you that we need renewable energy in this city, not another factory that's planned.
 And in case you were not aware, these concerns have been brought up many times, not only in Mexico but in Texas as well. However, New Mexico took action based on those comments and arguments, but Texas has chosen to ignore them. There have been hundreds of comments from community members, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, your own REAC, and other councils as well, including CUC, who have actually
 because the deadline was missed due to uh neiman not getting the deadline after the updated nmprc vote i ask that you take into account the devastating effects that these dirty factories have on people they exude particulate matter and other toxins including carcinogens which damage our water resources soil and air they also pose grave health risks to the population
 These health risks include respiratory problems like lung diseases and asthma. My little sister has been taken to the emergency room multiple times due to her relentless asthma, and it is so severe that she has to place on COPD medications, COPD. And for people like her, air quality is a very serious matter. These implementations of fracked gas factories severely affect her and other members of this community.
 EPU's N6 will send us decades into our connection and dependence on fossil fuels. And even though you have already unanimously rejected N6, EP has decided to go forward instead. I implore you to take direct action in the direction of clean air and a better environment for a healthier population.
 It is laughable that El Paso Electric needs to be pushed into providing solar energy in the 10th funniest city in the world, and it makes our community look like a joke because of this. Our energy company does not care about the people of El Paso, and that is why you should. We need our representatives to step in and protect our health and our environment. We all know climate change is occurring, yet on the local level, we are acting as if it does not exist.
 EP is not going to act in the best interest of the people. They are and have acted in the best interest of this county, and we need you as members of our city council to protect us. Thank you. Is Mr. Simmons? Mr. Simmons, I see your phone is unmuted. Go ahead, sir. You have three minutes. Josh Simmons? Hello? Yes, go ahead, sir. You have three minutes. Hello. Hi, this is Joshua Simmons, and I'm a resident of District 5, and I just wanted to voice my concern
 over the proposal that is known as Newman 6. This addition to the power station in Newman 6 is not a requirement as new metrics and new information has been made available.
 with the recent uh extension of tax expenses made by the federal government and other avenues and other uh information that provided states at the uh presentation makes evident that the cost of going with natural gas is too much of a risk for the public's health and the future of el paso's economic development growing solar would be the best option going forward
 with companionship and expansion of battery technologies, such as lithium batteries and other technologies that will come into development.
 And counter to this, there will be an influx of technology development that will be made available through federal grants and incentives through R&D. This is an opportunity for the city and also for an opportunity for El Paso Electric to partner with entities like UTEP to expand those research opportunities and become a leader like everyone has stated.
 commenter has been against this proposal and many avenues have been offered that offer a more innovative and prosperous future for El Paso.
 So I just want to urge that the City of El Paso Mayor and City Council petition the PUC to reconsider the ruling on Newman 6 and revisit the ruling on the grounds where knowledge the Mexico PRRC ruling would be led to increase the rates of Texas energy rate payers and undergoing investigation of the Texas freeze event where results on the related testimony provided in the Texas House hearings warrants readdressing the rulings.
 integrity and including the anticipated anticipation of the epa's redesignation of air qualities here in el paso additional action recommended to the city of el paso and the mayor and the city council is amending the city uh ordinance of 16090 to the conditional land use agreements upon the council to agree in epe's renewable generation study the public pressure
 Where's information the study to be conducted before the sale and now more than ever that information would be an asset and making decisions related to El Paso's renewable potential lastly the recent ruling from the TCEQ would be addressed by the body as a whole in the statement and
 as in light of the numerous amounts of testimony and opposition to Newman 6's application by El Paso, submitted by El Paso Electric. The regulatory body approved the application with no regard to the response to commenters or the persons who provided testimony and clearly have no concern for the real, real time air quality of El Paso and the effects of ill condition have impressed upon the residents of the city of El Paso. So I wanna thank you for receiving these comments today. Hopefully you make a really considerable
 Action upon this, and I really strongly urge for the City Council and Mayor to make action for the well-being of public health for the City of El Paso. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Gia Martinez. Gia Martinez, if you're in the queue, star six. Gia Martinez. Isabel Aranda. Isabel Aranda, star six, if you're in the queue. Ana Fuentes. Ana Fuentes, if you're in the queue, star six, please. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, your name, ma'am?
 go ahead miss fuentes you have three minutes great thank you um well hello everyone my name is anna fuentes i'm a constituent of district one so i'd like to thank my representative dr representative schwarzenegger as well as representative anella
 for supporting our coalition and our efforts to present the city to city council today particularly so because um i won't say any names but there have definitely been some hostility from city staff despite their reminders to us today that we need to be cordial and not attack the staff themselves which we are not i do believe that the staff
 have been infantilizing the constituents by not allowing us to give our opinion and give not only our opinion, but the facts, considering that a post-medical trick has been allowed to give several presentations
 at least one that I'm aware of to the city council. So I think it's only fair that constituents who would directly be affected by the building of the Newman Six plant be able to voice their concerns. I'd also like to let the council know that
 I believe on fossil electric, it keeps pushing us to fall for the fallacy that we need to continue relying on this dying fossil fuel industry rather than make any bold steps towards any type of sustainable energy. And they argue that we need to do this in a...
 that we need to transition at a snail's pace. And I'm here to remind the council that we do not have the time to do that. We're living the climate crisis now. And it's not about stopping the crisis anymore. It's about mitigating the effects of it. And fortunately, as of now, we still have the opportunity to minimize the impact that the climate crisis will have within our community. But if we keep pushing for...
 Going back to these toxic old-fashioned dying industries, rather than investing in solar, we're doing a disservice to our community. Further, I also think that we're not taking, we're not,
 We're not using all of our resources, and by that I mean more than our solar resources. We also have UTEP here. We have a great engineering department, and I know several professors who work tirelessly around the solar projects, and we could even implement those into our solar systems.
 So I'd like to remind the last way, like to remind the city council that they have the political autonomy to stop the plant. Not only that, they have the responsibility since the community has been so vocal against the building of this plant and, um, El Paso could be a pioneer in the solar movement. And why not take that opportunity rather than be left behind? Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sarah Nakera. Ms. Sarah Nakera, star six to unmute your telephone, please.
 or Esteban Daniel Labrado, star six. Sarah Najera or Esteban Daniel Labrado, star six. We'll move on to Alex Correa. Alex Correa, if you're in the queue, star six. Luis Miranda, if you're in the queue, Luis Miranda, star six. The remaining speakers are Gia Martinez, Isabel Aranda, Sarah Najera, Esteban Daniel Labrado, Alex Correa, Luis Miranda,
 Star six if any of you are in the queue, I don't recognize any of the numbers left in the queue I don't see the numbers for the speakers. I just called in the queue, but I'll call them once again Gia Martinez is a Bella Aranda Sarah Nakita Esteban Daniel Labrado Alex Correa Luis Miranda if any of you are in the queue star six, please I
 Thank you, Mr. Prang. With that, that concludes public comment and our presentation. Mayor, I had a request to speak. Go ahead, Representative Schwarzbein. Thank you. I want to thank the public for coming out. I want to thank Miguel Escoto and the other guests that were there. I apologize for the lack of decorum that was given to our guest presenters by some members of this council. I find it particularly disappointing.
 Mr. Schwarzwein, Mr. Schwarzwein, let's keep this professional, please, because then we're doing what you're talking about. So please keep it professional. I know. I understand that, sir. But I would appreciate the keep this professional and I would appreciate it. And I thank the public for participating. I understand that. I had actually a question for one of our presenters. Is Miss Gerson still on the line? Yes, I am.
 I don't know if IT can bring back the slide up that you had about looking at the comparisons about that. But I had a question. You had mentioned that when the El Paso — do you know what slide number it is, Miguel, by any chance? I think IT is going through it right now. That's it. That's the one. No. It was the one right before it, I believe. It was the one that — Miguel Bonilla- What? Male Speaker 1 I believe it's slide nine.
 Okay. I think they're going in the wrong direction. Yeah, I think that's the one. So you had mentioned, Ms. Gerson, that El Paso Electric's own experts had spoken about these different scenarios and their concerns. And these were experts that were hired by the company themselves. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct.
 So can you talk a little bit more about that? Because that's information that we've never heard from our own city attorney's office and our own legal team about those different scenarios that were presented. So as I mentioned, we have the report that E3 produced for EPE because of the discovery process in...
 the the new mexico public regulation commission they actually attached the report to the um to the filing at the commission in black and white um but but the version we got in discovery is a little bit easier to read because it's in color goes um
 the analysis they were hired to do. It's not just the scenario comparisons, but, you know, there's a lot of sophisticated and important analysis that EPE just isn't equipped to do in-house. They don't have the in-house capability to model how to increase penetrations of renewable energy that has, you know, daily predictable variability and how that interacts
 gas plants. So they hired experts who could bring that technical capabilities, and they were hoping to validate the process that EPE was conducting in-house. In the end, they identified the ability, E3 estimated that the scenario with the
 the least gas filled out would save about $8 million for customers over the timeframe they looked at. And so this was a red flag for us. All of the interveners were up in arms about why on earth they didn't go with the lower cost scenario.
 They actually had Mr. Arnie Olson, one of the project leads from E3, on the stand at the commission to answer questions under oath. The best he could do to defend it was to say, you know, $8 million is not that much over the course of this plan. So we think that it's reasonable for them to forego those claims
 that potential cost savings and conduct for qualitative reasons instead of just following the numbers. But EPE never presented the qualitative analysis that,
 it could have relied on to reject that money savings. It's just we've never gotten an answer from EPE about why it left the money on the table. And so the best we can figure is that they've been following their own biases to, you know, make money for their own shareholders by building and owning plants, which is...
 the regulatory structures that we exist in, reward them for doing. And that's not a knock on EPE. If attorneys who represented the city of El Paso, the Public Utilities Commission of Texas, like does EPE have a bias to build the gas plant and make money for shareholders? He'll tell you like, yeah, that's just the incentives that they face under these regulatory structures.
 Yeah, I mean, the thing, the position that I have, you know, and this council should have as, you know, partially a regulatory body to this monopoly is not towards the biases of shareholders and of the company. It should be a bias towards the rate payers and towards the people that are the customers of the company.
 and residents of our community in the districts we represent. And if that makes us biased, then that's our responsibility to this community to do so. I know that we had opposed this at the PUC before, and I'm curious if, again, if our city attorney can again summarize why was it that we opposed Newman six previously at the Texas PUC?
 Representative Schwarzman, before I answer your question, you asked about whether we had, why you had not heard these arguments. The arguments that were presented are from New Mexico, which the City of El Paso was not a party to. The arguments that were made at the PUCT were presented to Council on various occasions starting in 2019.
 and in 2020 when we were engaged in litigation at the PCC. So Ms. Neiman, my specific question was relating to these different scenarios that were presented.
 And to my recollection, these cost comparison, these scenarios of different build outs, utilizing a mixture of solar, battery, and natural gas was never extended or communicated in executive or in public session to this council by our legal team in discussion.
 Representative Schwarzwein, as I was stating, this is the first time that I'm hearing the arguments that the New Mexico arguments that were made. It's unfair for you to ask me to respond to Ms. Gerson's argument before this council. As you all know, and council voted this in public, you all took a unanimous decision
 to vote against Newman Six on numerous occasions. That was the direction that was given to us by council, and we opposed Newman Six at the PUCT. Unfortunately, we did not prevail at the PUCT. And what were the reasons that we gave to the Texas Public Utility Commission about our opposition to Newman Six? We did not feel that Newman Six had been properly vetted from a financial,
 and what the status of the Newman 6 plant would do to our rate payers. So the same arguments that Ms. Gerson is making here at New Mexico were made in Texas. And was there any other, was there ever any discussion with El Paso Electric about other scenarios?
 We made we asked about solar and you want you understand representative shorts find the limitations that we have when we have conversations with EP about solar. So what what I would like to Respond to you is that we welcome
 this group and any other group to take advantage of the regulatory process that exists in Texas. If they feel this strongly, they should be joining the city of El Paso in making these arguments at the proper time at the regulatory process, not a year and a half after council fought the battle and lost. Okay, I have a couple other questions. I sent you an email back on February 16th wondering about a couple of processes,
 that hopefully we can get addressed in a follow-up meeting, even if it's as an executive. I think it's probably along the lines of what Representative Manello has shared with you. One of the questions is, what are the means in the process to request an additional hearing by the Texas Public Utility Commission? So we had that opportunity when we were at the PUC.
 That timeframe ran out. We explained that to council in executive session back in 2020, either October or November of 2020. And we explained to you the options that the council had. What would be the process to amend the franchise agreements, especially considering ordinance 16-090? The process by which you amend an ordinance
 Well, we would have to have a conversation about why you would open the franchise agreement and what the city of El Paso would stand to gain or lose from doing that. Mayor Pro Temp, you've reached the 10 minute limit, sir.
 Okay, I guess I'll let anybody else sort of speak and then I would make an additional request. Thank you. Thank you Representative Schwartzbein, Representative Anello, and then we will conclude this presentation and continue our meeting. Thank you. Thank you Mayor, I appreciate it. If I could actually, I know there was a presenter and I really apologize, I don't remember your last name, but the first name was Ryan.
 Brian, I know that you had briefly talked a little bit about going back to the PEC, and I see you have your hand raised. So I don't know if I can actually kind of address what Representative Schwartzbein was just asking. Sure. Yeah, thank you. So I guess this is sort of also a response to the city attorney's statement that sort of why Earthworks or Sunrise didn't intervene a year and a half ago.
 I actually applied to intervene in both New Mexico and Texas. And short answer is pandemic. The city attorney argued to the PUC that the process was going much too fast and there wasn't enough time for proper discovery. The EPE at every opportunity that it had said,
 sped up the process. And me personally, I didn't have the bandwidth for both states. NMPRC, I think took the responsible route, delayed the proceedings and allowed for proper discovery, which brought to light these facts. The, what Sarah was discussing, the four different scenarios, that was in the initial application for the CCN in Texas, but it was sort of varied.
 It was black and white. It was difficult to understand. And I understood it, or I found it difficult to understand as an energy professional. So for, I'd say for an attorney who isn't necessarily an expert in energy policy, it would have been difficult to decipher and difficult to make the argument against N6.
 And Ryan I don't know if you have any information on the question that was asked previously is if you if as someone who has dealt with the PUC often if you see another opportunity to return to them with our concerns. It's it's I think past or farther than my my knowledge. I'm not a lawyer so I can't really comment on that. All right. Well thank you for that clarification. And I want to thank everybody who presented. Representative.
 Can I answer that question? Sure, go ahead, Michael. Thank you. That's something that Aaron from Earthworks would be able to answer is what other options are there at the PUC. But before, if you can get into that, I would also like to express how it's –
 Obviously, there's a difference in dynamics and privileges between what the city attorneys and the city attorney office can do with these complex regulatory proceedings and what the community can do in these regulatory proceedings. And so we're.
 trying to scramble together as many resources and volunteer labor as we can to fight this. And it's a little insulting to imply that because the same resources were not directed at both regulatory agencies, that there's somehow bad faith.
 to to amplify what what Ryan said. The pandemic played a huge role in this and it's unfair to pin this on the community. But Aaron, if you could talk about the other PUC avenue.
 Well, thank you Miguel, thank you Councilwoman Anello, and we can follow up in more detail if you like in written comments, but briefly we believe that there's a process by which either through the Texas Administrative Procedures Act or through the PSPC particularly that you use the APA to petition for a revocation or amendment of the certificate.
 So that's a process that is discretionary on behalf of the Public Utilities Commission, but it doesn't hurt to ask them. And that's something that anybody can do, especially folks who are interveners, can at least ask. So we can follow up, we'd be pleased to follow up with you more in writing and other details, but we would urge that at least we explore that option in light of the changed circumstances that we've discussed earlier.
 Yeah, no, I appreciate that, especially with the changes in the PUC as of recently. And so I just want to thank you all. You know, this item was not meant to be contentious or to step on anyone's toes. I know that you have all spent a lot of time on these issues. You're all, some of you, experts.
 just forthright and some of you have really like dived into this issue because it means a lot to you and this item was put up so we could work in tandem and we could learn from each other and we could move forward. You know, I don't think it is the responsibility of any single person to intervene on a case. It does not stop you from being able to express your concerns and offer help as you have with this issue. So I thank you very much for the presentation.
 Thank you. Thank you all. And Ms. Prine, that concludes the presentation. Mayor, I had a request to speak if there was no other members from council. Mr. Schwartzwein, I think you've reached your 10 minutes, sir. According to Robert Solzor's, I'm allowed to speak twice at 10-minute intervals, sir.
 Ms. Prine is shaking her head yes sir. You're correct. You do get the opportunity to speak twice. She's going yes. Thank you Ms. Prine. Originally this item was supposed to be placed on a work session so everybody here should be thankful that I'm limited in my comments because as we know with our updated rules of order on work sessions there is no 10 minute limit.
 I want to thank again everybody for coming and speaking here. I did have a couple questions from representatives. So when y'all are talking about how there has been a change that would warrant a request for an additional hearing, what specific
 What acts are y'all referring to so that nobody's sort of caught unaware or they're scratching their heads? I'm just kind of curious, when you talk about those sort of changes, the facts on the ground, what specifically are you referring to? Is it the New Mexico ruling? Is it other items that have occurred? I'd like to hear that. I don't know if Miguel or some of the other experts that you think would warrant a request for an additional hearing.
 I'll answer that question by asking those folks in the New Mexico proceeding. It was my understanding that the justification that the NMPRC used to delay the project a bit was the global pandemic, which is more than suffice to, in my opinion, to justify a delay or extenuating circumstances. Was that correct, those in the NMPRC, that that was the justification they used?
 Hi, Miguel. This is Rick. I thought Sarah might still be on. The delay was due to the pandemic, among other things, but the delay was limited so that, in theory at least, El Paso would still have time to build a facility if they prevailed in New Mexico within the timeframe that they were seeking.
 Right. And to just going off of what Rick said, to provide the Council a little bit of a recap on the whole timeline of this. Right, I have here the dates of when everything happened. So, Council, you all unanimously voted against Newman 6 to the PUC on Monday, October 12th, right?
 that later that same week on that Friday, that's when the NM, when the PUC issued their CCN on October 16th. But it wasn't until... Excuse me, excuse me, I don't mean to interrupt, but I know this, what was intended was not what we're talking about. I want to make sure we stay within the subject, which was...
 if i'm not mistaken it was environmental impact and now we're kind of getting into you know a little bit different so if we can i know i'd we'd love to listen to y'all and we've respected everything you've all had to say and i thank you for it but i do want to make sure that we do stay in subject based on what was put on the agenda to not be in any violations of the meeting opens meeting
 Yeah, Mayor, it was my question. It was directly in relation towards... I understand. I just want to stay on track and make sure we're in point of order to make sure that whether your question or not, we want to make sure we stay on what was put on the agenda. And like I said, we've been very respectful, and we thank everyone for their time and their input. But I want to make sure that we don't kind of veer off to where we shouldn't be.
 Mayor can I add one more sentence to that. So so the NMPR so NMPRC vote was two months after the PUC vote and that vote materially changed the price of Newman six for El Paso rate care rate payers. That's the extenuating circumstance. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Okay well thank you. Like I said I do want to stay on and.
 And subject and topic, even though you asked the question, I want to make sure it's what was put on the agenda. And we kind of did go off it quite a bit. And I want to make sure that I thank the presenters for taking their time to be here. And I know this is an important issue for everyone. And I thank you all for that. Mayor, if this is Elizabeth Triggs, if I may, I just I need to correct some.
 information that was provided today. Just very quickly, through the conversation that we had regarding the slide on the scenarios, I don't want it to be misconstrued that scenario one was the scenario that was selected because that is not the case. In fact, El Paso Electric selected a group of different types of generation, power generation.
 As part of the Newman six replacement unit, which will replace three units. They also selected an additional 200 megawatts of solar as well as 50 megawatts of battery storage. So I think that that's really important. The result there is that we get 200 additional megawatts of solar. We get 50 additional megawatts of battery storage.
 And the net new generation from natural gas is 32 megawatts, which is actually less than what Scenario 3 showed. So I just, I want that to be very clear. I don't want there to be any, any...
 Misinterpretation of what is being provided to the community. Thank you and I appreciate that and again, I thank everybody for their presentation Represent sports wine. I do want to continue and move forward. I want to thank everybody for their time and and the presentation
 I know that you guys gave a real good presentation and spent a lot of time in it and we thank you for being here and providing it for us. And I think it's really important that I think we could probably talk for the next four or five hours and continue this conversation, but the important part is if you would like to make an appointment, for example, with me or anyone else in city council.
 uh respond really quickly with this sir because it's it's worth 160 million dollars for and I understand that's what I'm saying if you want to make a a um an appointment with us I would appreciate it and we'll continue to and I guess Mr Schwartzwein said I cut him off so I didn't mean to cut you off I thought you were done Mr Schwartzwein so I would never cut you off I may ask you to be respectful but I won't cut you off
 No, absolutely. And I apologize if I was somehow coming off disrespectfully towards any of the members here or the guests. I just had a question in terms of amending ordinance 16090. City Attorney Neiman, that was something I sent you on February 16th. I hope that in a follow-up.
 whether it's an executive session, we can discuss those items that I had sent to you in more detail and I believe Representative Nello had as well. And then Mr. Escudero, you had something just to wrap up really quick, sir?
 Would you like just to very quickly wrap up this thought? I think it's just courteous for us to allow Ms. Gerson to respond to the claim that it was a misleading fact. So I wanted to offer that to to the expert that is providing information to this council.
 And that's what I'm saying. I think we could talk for hours, and you know that, because this is a very important topic within our community. And I'd love to continue the conversation with you all. And you can email me any information you have. You can set an appointment, and we can have a Teams meeting, because that's probably the most efficient way to do that. But I look forward to continuing the conversation. And I thank you all for taking your time to be here. And it was very impactful.
 And with that, Mr. Schwartzwein, are we done? Yes, sir. Thank you again. Thank you. Thank you all. And with that, again, I look forward to continuing this conversation with you all. With that, Ms. Pine, we go to item number, not quite sure. Mayor, if we may, can we go to call to the public that was scheduled at 530?
 Absolutely. Thank you. We now go to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving the citizens of this city and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons.
 without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person's
 character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening we have two members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Lisa Turner. Her topic is COVID-19. Good evening, Ms. Turner, star six please. Good evening, Ms. Turner, you have three minutes, ma'am. Good evening, Mayor of Council.
 Earlier today I asked the question during the work session On your web page under work session It says the City Council offers members of the public the opportunity to ask questions about items on the work session agenda This is what I wanted to do the first Words out of the city employees mouth was we don't answer questions like that So why would you?
 solicit questions if you're not going to answer them that's the first question this also leads into 551.007 because the moment i signed up for that agenda item is the moment 551.007b came into effect
 The second thing is we can talk about our city attorney. I would like to point out the mayor, council, city manager, and my city attorney, 551.007E. And I would like to read that to you quickly. It says the government body may not, excuse me, I made the wrong one.
 Ah, public testimony. E, the government body may not prohibit public criticism of the governmental body, which is city council, manager, and our city attorney, including criticism of any act, omission, policy, procedure, program, or services. So please be careful when you start going after the citizens. You also, on your webpage, encourage participation.
 You put up an awful lot of roadblocks, but back to my COVID-19. Earlier in that presentation, 59% of the infections are either pre-symptomatic or asymptomatic, and you have no way to know. There is a procedure that you can institute, but you all haven't done it. It's called wastewater surveillance. You need to pay attention.
 You need to have that information ahead of time so you'll know when these infections are about to blossom in the community. That technology allows you to trace it to the source. And why we haven't adopted a wastewater surveillance system for COVID-19 or any other communicable disease in the city is beyond me. Hopefully my city council will look into this. Hopefully my city council will start it.
 Because I'll tell you this right now, this is not going to go away for a long time. With all the variants that we have, like the one from Brazil, the one from South Africa. Thank you, Ms. Turner. You've reached the three minutes, ma'am. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Saba Maria Smart. Ms. Smart, star six to unmute your microphone, please. Good evening. You have three minutes. Good evening. Yes, ma'am.
 Oh, thank you. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor Lisa and City Council members. Good afternoon. My name is Ave Maria Smart. I'm a member of the El Paso chapter, the Links Incorporated, and I'm also a constituent of El Paso of District 5. I'm also a co-chair in the nonprofit organization, the Border Network for Human Rights, focused on improving our community through collective public safety.
 Why I'm here today, because we feel that there's methods for helping the community to feel more safe, to encourage trust and confidence.
 in the model of protect and serve. And that protect and serve comes into effect when we think about issues occurring in our community, in the nation, as far as the George Floyd incident, which led to the George Floyd Act. That has to deal with issues of chokehold, no-knock, racial profiling, and such other things that are occurring in cities. And we have found that
 There's a way to help to bring some kind of collective public safety.
 by developing independent accountability commission. And the border network has developed a document to reflect that for the El Paso Police Department Independent Accountability Commission and our vision, and we have a working document that we've shared with some of the representatives of our city already, and we've also shared with the deputy city manager
 And we have that based on data-driven information. There are at least 13 cities that are practicing or establishing or developing versions of an independent accountability commission that is similar to the El Paso vision. We have a document that we would like to make more available and visible to everyone. And you also, Mayor Leeson.
 So we would like for an opportunity to share that. And this is my way of bringing it to the group so that that could be an option for future. Maybe we can get a chance to present it to you and the council, the city council.
 because this is important for us to have that confidence, that sense of trust. It's a collaborative process where the community can participate in decision-making, in subpoenaing, in as far as developing policies and matrices that need to be established so that we as a community can feel safe and it's community-led.
 these these accountability Commission that are established in various cities in Austin Albuquerque Berkeley Houston Dallas of the 13 they have similar thank you thank you thank you very much that concludes call to the public thank you if we now return to page 7 of the agenda we're on item number 21 and this is a budget update
 Thank you Laura. Robert Cortez again for the record. Let me bring up my screen here. Okay, members of City Council. So continuing upon the budget update presentations that we've done so far starting the FY22 budget process. This presentation is going to focus on looking at again the five-year forecast that we showed you all. Some of the challenges as we move forward of looking at not only the cost drivers but also looking at some of the limitations we have as far as our revenue growth. And then towards the end of the presentation we'll talk about some of the strategies that we've talked about already.
 not only looking at short term, but long term as well. And then some of the key areas in regards to the budget that we'll be looking at as we get further along into the FY22 budget process. So again, just a quick summary, again, our improved financial position, the proactive decisions that we've made over the last year plus related to the COVID impact. We're going back even further over the last six plus years, looking at continuing to build upon our reserves, creating the stabilization fund, which you all approved last year, creating the annual set aside funding for those priorities.
 which are important to help us catch up on the areas that have been deferred for a long period of time related to streets, facilities, our vehicles and equipment. And then with what was adopted as part of the current year budget, minimizing the impact on our taxpayers by maintaining the overall same tax rate, responding to the decrease in the revenue at the same time, while also at the same time trying to minimize the impact on services as much as possible. Again, looking at the slide that was presented last month on February the 15th,
 Again, this was from the five-year forecast. And this slide here, if you look at the title there, was based on going back to 100% fully funding everything. So fully funding all of the non-essential vacant positions, going back to funding all of the Quad App Live services, the operating and maintenance costs related to the bond projects on the Quad App Live and the public safety bond side, all of those various cost drivers that we talked about.
 And this also excludes any potential COVID related causes. Those will be funded going forward by the federal assistance we're going to be receiving here in the next couple of months. So when we look at this chart, I mean, a simple way to explain it and what we've talked about is there's two ways to close that gap. And one is either you generate more revenue or two, you identify how you can boost your costs. So we've done a little bit of both over the last several years. This presentation is going to talk about again some of the limitations that we have in regards to
 generated revenue and more specifically on the property tax side. Robert, if I may, before you go to the other slide, can you go back to slide four? I would just add on this particular slide for members of council is that a lot of what's driving how we come back is going to be the numbers associated with the health pandemic.
 I know there's been all these reports. I know what the governor's stipulated in terms of going back to 100% open, but a lot of the community has not been vaccine. And there's still an opportunity to see a spike if we go back too quickly. And if we're not careful and if we don't, we're not responsible and measured with our approach.
 All I have to do is just go back to the fall of 2020 for you all to see, and we all experienced how when we went back too quickly or we started opening back up just like the community did, we saw a spike happen. We have opened up some services. We have also shared earlier that we're going to open up additional services, which we will, but that's not going up to 100%. Now, the recommendation on that three-year phase-in approach that I shared with the council before,
 might look more like a two-year phase-in, depending on the numbers. But again, it all depends on the health numbers and how quickly we get the vaccine. So I thought I'd interject that point because this right here does talk about 100% back online. But as Robert is going to explain, a more measured approach and a more common-sense approach would be to go back in and transition for a number of reasons. So I'll let him continue.
 So one of the areas, just wanted to spend a little bit of time in reminding the council, since it has been a while since we've talked about this, the impact from Senate Bill 2. So Senate Bill 2, better known as the Texas Property Tax Reform and Transparency Act of 2019, essentially what it did is it lowers the tax rate that a city or any tax entity can adopt, and then it requires a mandatory election if you go above and beyond that 3.5%. So I wanted to make this as simple as possible. There are a lot of calculations that go into determining what that rate is,
 One of the things I'll talk about later is that actual rate is not calculated until we receive certified values at the end of July. So between now and then, when we start to develop this budget and start to really get down into the numbers, these numbers are going to be based on our estimates utilizing the historical data of what we've seen.
 We want to stay, obviously, as low as possible. We don't want to get anywhere near that 3.5% cap, but then also obviously doing everything we can to minimize overall impact on the tax rate into our taxpayers. But I wanted to talk about this for a little while because you do need to be aware of this and the potential impact that it could have on the budget, not only for this coming year, but as we look down the road. And looking at that five-year projection of how that gap continues to widen unless we begin to either generate more revenue,
 or find a way to implement our costs in a phased-in approach, then we may run into potential issues with additional revenue to fund those items. So how does Senate Bill 2 impact the City? Well, as I just mentioned, right now it's really our estimates on what we think those rates are going to look like, what we think that maximum is going to be. However, we won't know, as I mentioned, until we receive certified values at the end of July.
 So it limits obviously the revenue growth without voter approval, as I mentioned, from that 8% that it was prior to 2019 down to the 3.5%. And so with the current year budget, so if we take this as the example, because now we have one year of going through this. So in the current year, even with all of the reductions that we took that I just mentioned, so whether it be deferring the Second Police Academy this year, whether it's the unfunding of the vacancies, deferring some of the set-aside funds for streets.
 All of those various reductions that we took in order to minimize the impact and hold the line on the tax rate this year. When you look at what was adopted on the tax rate and the overall property tax revenue compared to what the maximum without voter approval was, we were only just slightly over $2 million under that maximum cap. And so there, as I mentioned, there's a lot of calculations. Essentially what that or how that voter approval rate is calculated looks at your taxable values,
 It takes into account your new construction growth. There's a lot of things that go into determining what that rate is. But I wanted to provide this as an example, because now, as I mentioned, we have that one year of going through this. That's something that we need to be very conscious of as we begin to bring back some of these services and some of the things that were deferred in the current year. So some of the strategies as we look beyond not only 2022, but looking again, that long term focus.
 is again the revenue growth on what we're doing on the economic development side with the different strategies to increase our tax base. Really encouraging this past year when we saw a pretty significant increase in our commercial property values. However, we know with the impact from COVID-19 on the commercial side, we're expecting to see some impact there.
 Again, continue to strengthen our sales tax performance by attracting new retail into our community. We've seen really strong sales tax. Actually, we just received our January sales tax last week, came in at almost 5% higher than January of the prior year. So encouraging to see how we need to continue to boost up that revenue source as it is our second largest source for the general fund. We need to continue investing in our economic development to boost that up even more.
 Some of the things we've talked about over the last several weeks again, looking at cost recovery for some of our services. Again, looking at what we're charging for. For example, Sun Metro was a discussion that we had a couple of weeks ago. Looking at what we're recovering and how do we continue to subsidize some of these services. I just referenced the state impact, so that's something again that we need to be very aware of, very conscious of as we go into not only this current upcoming budget process, but as we look beyond this year and into the future.
 And then on the expenditure side, again, prioritizing those core services, looking at the funding of the non-essential vacancies, which as a reminder, all of those non-essential vacancies were unfunded. So how do we prioritize and make sure that we're addressing the areas that are essential to get those vacancies funded to be able to provide the services for the community? And then again, looking at a multi-year phased approach to bring back those quite applied services in order to stay again below that voter approval rate.
 So this was another slide that we presented last month. And again, this is looking at a phased in approach. And so you can see in FY22, as we do the phased in approach, not only for quite a life, but also looking at the vacancies in some of the other areas, that gap becomes much more manageable, about $5.8 million difference. And as we continue to go and actually get further along within this budget process, start to fine tune some of those revenue estimates as we begin to collect more data.
 And then actually we'll put some numbers towards those costs and what those costs are going to look like, especially on the salary benefit side, which is the largest piece of the budget. We'll have a better idea of where we stand, and then we'll make adjustments as necessary and bring that back to the council later in the summer. But really, the point here again is really what that phased-in approach helps us do is it helps us phase in those costs over time, helps us create a manageable gap.
 which is much more manageable as opposed to what I showed just a few minutes ago with going back to 100% all at once, really does create a little bit of an issue with that Senate Bill 2 impact and what that could have. Again, not only looking at short term, one of the things we talked a lot about and it's important to keep repeating it is the decisions and the recommendations that we bring to the council are not just focused on what we're facing for the summer. We want to make sure that
 the council and that the community has all of the information related to what's the budget going to look like two three four or five years down the road so the recommendations that we're bringing forward are those that are fiscally responsible in that that take that approach so as we move further along again these are some things that we've already talked about the things that are are going to be the focus of the budget for the fy 22
 Obviously public safety getting on back on track with the police academies that we've done over the last several years continue to build upon that net increase and again with the public safety bond projects as those begin to move further along we need to ensure that we're wrapping up the staffing in order to adequately staff those facilities. Public health obviously the federal assistance that we'll be getting here in the next couple months is going to help tremendously with that aspect but again looking long term and how we continue to find and not rely upon that federal assistance
 to essentially balance our budget. That federal assistance is going to help tremendously. However, it should not be viewed upon as it's going to save us and help manage the budget for any time period beyond the next couple of years. Streets obviously is the priority. So we did defer the street residential project. So that's something that is a priority. I'm looking at the chime in survey numbers so far, really encouraging to see a really good output so far.
 Over the last couple of years, we've had about 2,200, I believe was the most we've received in one year as far as the number of responses. I checked it early this morning, we're at 3,700. So really good output so far. Streets again is by far and away the number one priority. Almost 74% of the responses so far list streets as the number one priority. So that's an area that obviously is very, very important that we get back on track using that set aside funding to fund those residential projects.
 And then the quality of life again the proposed phase in that we talked about Tracy Jerome did the presentation a couple of weeks ago we talked a little bit about it in the CFT presentation. And then finally looking at our workforce we have an item on the agenda here later to talk about our furloughed employees who are coming back to work now. But it's important that we continue to maintain the morale and acknowledge the hard work that are all of our city employees have done over the last several years and continue to look at compensation adjustments.
 Also look at how we continue to offset their health care increases. So whether the city picks up those costs or we find another way to fund those items, continue to invest in the training and the professional development for our workforce who are the ones getting the results that we present to you all pretty often. I'm just about every council meeting or it seems like every other day we have a pretty good result to be able to announce or present to you all. So it's important that we continue to do that for our workforce and show that we do prioritize them in that direction.
 we do value them. Looking at some of the other areas, we've talked about this, the prioritization of services, and again, minimizing the tax rate impact. So again, looking at public safety, we talked a little bit about the staffing and the set aside for the public safety capital, our streets, which I talked about, and then some of the other items which I've already referenced. So the key points, again, as we go on throughout the next couple of months, developing the FY 2022 budget, really important that we continue to maintain not only that short-term, but that long-term outlook,
 really taking advantage of that federal assistance that we'll be receiving, using that very strategically to help us, not relying upon that federal assistance to fund ongoing operations, but how do we use it to position ourselves to be even stronger once those funds are gone. Again, dealing with the state limit on the property tax revenue growth, continuing the efforts to increase our tax base and increase the sales tax revenue that we collect as a city. And then again, prioritizing our services and investing in our workforce. I think a complete presentation, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Schwarzman?
 Yes, Mayor. I was going to text you right now, but you read my mind, so thank you for your clairvoyant powers. Mr. Cortinas, I've seen with the chime in a lot of activity online. Thank you. With a lot of activity online, specifically on some social media accounts on Facebook and Instagram, it's sort of increase or decrease sort of polling that's going on.
 So how is that being tabulated as the overall sort of chime in, I guess, data? So you said we had 3,000 right now. So can you talk to me about what those are? Each of those increase or decrease sort of online polls, are we considering that to be a sort of chime in response? Or are those 3,000 individual survey responses?
 Those are 3,700 individual responses that we received. So those are the survey, like the surveys, or are these also including these sort of increase, decrease sort of online polls? No, so we've had 3,700 people take the survey. They've answered the questions in the survey. Okay. And those increase, I don't know what they're officially referred to, but the sort of increase, decrease sort of polls are being counted separately then as well?
 No, sir. There's multiple questions on the survey. We're not counting each question as a different response. Okay. I guess because last year we didn't have these sort of – I don't know if I'm explaining it well. No, we didn't. And so you're right. So some of the questions we added, some of the questions stayed the same. We did add some questions because things have changed since last year. So the questions we're asking the individuals when they respond to the survey to identify their top priorities, they have the eight different options.
 They're asked to identify the bottom eight selections as far as their priorities. And then we're asking for some of the items that were deferred, would they like to see additional funding put towards some of those items? Okay, maybe there's somebody from the, I don't know. I'm not talking about, there's a new survey that the City of El Paso is doing on their Instagram and Facebook page.
 Laura, do you want to talk about the social media? Yeah. So this is Laura, for the record, this is Laura Krizakos, the Strategic Communications Director. So part of the effort in terms of promotion of the Chime In effort is the Instagram, Facebook, and other social media pages as it relates to a poll. The poll...
 tabulated separate and apart from the chime in but the primary focus is with regards to the chime in effort we will um share that information that we receive from social media with the council of uh that wraps up yeah thank you laura so yes i understand what you're asking now we're short spine those social media questions are completely separate from what i was referencing as far as the number of responses but we will report back on those i know if you all can see it there or not
 I just it was it was curious because it seems to be a lot more accessible and interested to sort of see how those numbers are Compared to the sort of traditional sort of time in process, which is a little bit probably a little bit more user intensive But you guys wouldn't believe it but so far online 68% of Instagram users are looking to increase funding for transportation in our city. So I
 It'll be interesting to sort of see how those numbers sort of compare to the traditional Triman survey as well to sort of see how that sort of technology and intersection of our surveys are going to work. Yeah, so we'll gather all of that information. It will be good to have that information. So we started doing the social media a few years ago. We've really tried to ramp it up to make it more visible to get more people to respond. Yeah.
 Because right now what we've seen on the actual web survey, so those that have taken the web survey, it's, I believe, two-thirds of those individuals that have responded are over the age of 50. And so we know more than likely we're going to see a young demographic respond to these social media campaigns.
 So it will be good to have that information to see what's important to those that answer social media questions and those that answering on the web survey. Also, as it relates to surveys, we do a residential survey as well across the city that's more scientific. This is more anecdotal. We also do surveys of the Student Budget Advisory Committee.
 Council remembers we go out and we talk to the students throughout all the school districts and teach them the budget then they come and present the city budget at least they have in the past the city council the the budget for that year and so we get their input as well. Again, that's anecdotal. So we have made a lot of efforts to reach out to the community and get as many pockets of information as we can that kind of direct outreach is considered anecdotal. The one that scientific is the one that's done across the community.
 Those are good points, Mr. Gonzalez. One of the things I'll add, though, is that as part of the Chime In survey, we do give the opportunity for them to leave an open-ended comment. So if they have an idea or suggestion or recommendation, they can leave an open-ended comment. And we do read all that information because it actually helps us. It helps us identify where we may be doing something that somebody may not be aware of and how we need to do some improvement on getting the word out. Or there may be a trend that we see that,
 maybe we didn't pick up on on the survey data and that maybe there's a more detail as somebody's able to explain what they meant by some of the responses they gave so absolutely it is anecdotal but there is valuable information in the responses that we receive
 Yeah, and I know too that, you know, I think the surveys are really great to get a sense of it as well. I know that we've talked about it in previous meetings and talking about our budget and sort of what we're looking at as well. But I do think it's important to moving forward to look at those different scenarios as well when we talk about our budget coming up for the upcoming year so that –
 you know, the council is fully informed and the public is fully informed about what kind of sort of tax burden we're going to have and what services would be affected by the council direction by ultimately what we adopt for our budget as well. And so the scenarios that we have that can show that will better inform our decision and ultimately better inform the public about what decisions we make and why and the impact it's going to have on the day-to-day life of El Pasoans.
 So that's the reason why we showed you that graph. I think that's a very simple version of showing you what going 100% looks like. We also talked about the $159.2 million, which we're going to get a portion of that. And we've already stated to the council that we want to utilize some of that to pay for some of the things that we can legally use that for in order to offset our budget in terms of what we've had to absorb with the pandemic.
 The other thing that I've talked about is a three-year phase-in approach. I've talked about how that might change to a two-year phase-in approach. We've already talked about the type of services that have been opened up already and that we're gonna continue to open up during the spring and summer months. So that already has shown you what that kind of impact has. If we phase in, there's a $5 million difference on what we have to make up. If we cannot make that up through some of the funding that we're getting
 from that tranche that's supposed to make up for the losses we had with the pandemic, then we'll have to either look at revenue increases or we'll have to look at reductions in our costs. We feel like that if we go with that phase-in approach, we'll be in very good shape, and we will also be able to responsibly start opening things up where not only the Council but the community will welcome it.
 We're not going to go to 100% and I don't think we can. I mean, I think there's been a lot of reports, a lot of statements made about when we'll go to herd immunity and what the vaccines will be available. We have not yet seen that. And earlier I reported that the type of information we get is just...
 I guess broken and distorted because the state doesn't have the information, so they're not getting it from the federal government on any kind of logistical plan to tell us we're going to get 10,000 next week, we're going to get 15 the next, we're going to get 20 the next. None of that is taking place.
 So I know that y'all want more information. I know you get questions about people getting a vaccine, but the numbers are not flowing in like the reports are stipulating. They simply are not. I know they will. I have confidence that that will happen soon, but it's yet to happen. So I don't want us to get too far out there and have the infection spike, not only for the community, but for our employees. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Schwartzbein.
 With that mr. Cortina's we have no other questions. Thank you Yes, sir. The next items on the agenda items 22 to 24 our first reading of ordinances. May we have a motion motion to approve? There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances on that motion mayor Pro Tem short fine representative one not succeeded Rodriguez Rivera Lizarra
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Anello has requested to be excused for the remainder of the meeting, and Representative Rodriguez was not present. The next item is on page 10. This is item 26. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0635, Grounds Maintenance Parks, Mowing, Rebid to Stiles General Contractors, LLC. Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 26 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthvine. Representative Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rodriguez? I see you motioning yes. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 27. This is discussion in action on the request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue a purchase order to LSC Environmental Products, LLC. Motion to approve? Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Representative Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rodriguez? I see a motion and yes. Rivera? Yes. Aye.
 Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 28. This is a public hearing on an ordinance approving amendment number 19 to the project plan and reinvestment zone financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number 5 to allocate up to $150,000 of the tax increment reinvestment zone revenue to the downtown plan effort to support the development of a capital needs assessment. Motion to approve.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 28. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Representative Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Lizárraga. Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 29. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the City of El Paso to the State of Texas.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 29. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rodriguez. Yes, I see you motioning yes. We're receiving feedback from your microphone. Representative Rivera. Thank you. Representative Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance emitting Title 12.44.280, Restrictions on Parking in Residential Parking Districts, to add and use Subsection D to allow for the amendment of residential parking district restrictions and boundaries. Would council like for me to give the presentation? I can pull it up by team. So good afternoon, Hannah Williams, Streets and Maintenance.
 Item 30 is an ordinance amending excuse me is an ordinance amending title 1244-280 restrictions on parking in residential parking districts falls under strategic plan goal 7 specifically 7.3
 the city council history in 2012 city council approved an ordinance to amend title 1244-280 restrictions on parking in residential districts to revise the provisions regarding the issuance of permits and clarify the effect of holding a permit and the penalties for parking in 2015 city council approved an ordinance to amend title 1244-280
 To amend the definition of the residential property to include apartment complexes with five or more dwelling units in a designated historical district and to revise the provisions regarding the issuance of permits.
 So the purpose of this amendment, currently the way that the code is written, there is only a method to create and to dissolve a residential parking district. There is no current mechanism to amend a parking restriction or to amend the boundaries. So if we were to do so, we would have to completely dissolve.
 and then come back and create the new residential parking district with the modified parking restrictions and or boundaries. And that would require four City Council meetings, um, and then we would have a
 and a lot of work on the behalf of city staff as well as our constituents. So in addition to updating this policy, we would like to replace the word traffic engineer with city traffic engineer, add he-she references to the city traffic engineer, correct the numbering of the section, and as an amendment item, excuse me, as a companion item,
 which would follow as item 31 on the City Council agenda would be to resolve a resolution to amend Schedule C of the budget resolution to include the fee for an RPD modification application. So the proposed section D has the following subsections.
 We're proposing that Section D is changed to Amendment of Parking Restriction and Boundary, and the rights to apply extend to two certain groups. The first being an owner of property within an existing residential parking district. They have the right to apply to modify the existing parking restriction. So if the current restriction was no parking any time, a modification request could be made to
 to say no parking anytime to a zone or no parking from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Saturday. And the second group that I mentioned is extended to the owners of property within a thousand feet of an existing residential parking district. So if a property owner lives within a thousand feet, they and they would like to join a residential parking district, then this would be that avenue in which they could do so. The application and fee.
 Part of the application is a clear statement of the request. So the constituent would clearly state whether they would like to modify the parking restriction or modify the boundaries. Part of this application we are asking for signatures of support and that would be 75% of impacted owners. So for clarification and for transparency, if a constituent is requesting to modify a parking restriction,
 then within that existing residential parking district, 75% of those homeowners would have to agree. And if a constituent is requesting to modify the boundaries to include their block, then it would just be 75% of the residents on their block would have to agree to be part of that residential parking district.
 The fee, as I mentioned, and we'll be mentioning later, is a $30 fee with a $2 tech fee and then a certificate of completion. And that certificate of completion is just added on there by city staff and it just states for the applicant that everything that they are submitting is true and accurate to their
 The third subsection is the City Traffic Engineer's evaluation. So upon receipt of a completed application and the fee, and a completed application does require the 75% of impacted homeowners, then the City Traffic Engineer would conduct a study, an evaluation. We'd go ahead and schedule that, and if we decide to move forward because the amendment is warranted, then we would take that to City Council for approval.
 The appeal process is the same as in another section of this particular code, which states that it must be submitted by the applicant within 15 calendar days after the date of applicant's receipt of the notice of the City Traffic Engineer's decision.
 something that's new is subsection 5 which states one year waiting period city traffic engineer will not accept any applications to modify any residential parking district restrictions or boundaries that are submitted within one year of a denial or approval and we added this in here because all of the legwork is being done in the beginning so there should not be a reason for
 constituents or residents to come and start complaining at this stage in this process. And the last subsection is the health and safety related modifications. And this states that the city traffic engineer has authorization to modify any RPD at any time if warranted for any health and safety related concerns.
 The proposed Schedule C of the budget resolution that I mentioned earlier is as follows. I went ahead and added in the $2 tech fee, and I know that the presentation that City Council has does not have the $2 on there. However, this is what was provided as far as the budget.
 And the requested council action, I'm going to go ahead and read all of it for the record, is via ordinance amend Title 12, Vehicles and Traffic, Chapter 1244, Stopping, Standing, and Parking Generally, Section 1244-280, Restrictions on Parking in Residential Parking Districts,
 to add a new subsection D to allow for the amendment of residential parking district restrictions and boundaries, replace the word traffic engineer with city traffic engineer, add HACI references to the city traffic engineer and correct the numbering of the section. Penalty is as described in section 1244-280 subsection S.
 as well as via resolution amend schedule C of the budget resolution to amend line 282 to include the application to modify parking restrictions and boundaries and to add in that $30 fee plus the applicable tech fee, which is that $2. And this concludes my presentation. Thank you. We have a representative Sarga. You're muted representative. Thank you, Hannah.
 I always forget to click that button. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Thank you, ma'am. I think it's a best practice to use they in references to a nonspecific person instead of he slash she. Other cities around the country, for example, Miami, Seattle, and Austin, as well as several other Texas cities, have done the same in their code. And the organization Unicode recommends it as a best practice.
 The U.S. House of Representatives also adopted a similar change across the board. And in our case, in reference only to this ordinance, I move to amend this proposal to replace all he slash she references in this ordinance with the term they. Second. Thank you. Thank you. We have Representative Mullenard. Thank you, Hannah, very much. Great presentation always. But, uh,
 Can you tell me how many parking residential are in the city of El Paso, please? More or less ballpark figure? In the city of El Paso, so I have a clarifying question for you. Do you mean as far as restrictions or as far as actual zones? The actual parking boundaries. There are a little over 20, I believe. The code goes into, I believe we have a U, a zone U.
 So over 20? 20? Yes, sir. And I can get you that specific number. Thank you. I would appreciate that. Yes, sir. As a follow up. Yes, sir. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. There is a motion and a second to amend the ordinance to replace all references of he and she with they. Is that correct, Representative? Yes. Okay. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsman. Yes. Representative Molina. Salcido.
 Rodriguez Rivera. Yes. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. I'm sorry. I was just notified by our legal that we have we do have an ordinance drafted that does have the references so I can get the appropriate signatures over and we'll get that posted.
 Thank you, Han. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Prime, does this include item 31 too, the companion item? If you would like to take them together, item number 31 is discussion and action on a resolution amending Schedule C of the El Paso City fiscal year 2021 budget resolution to establish the application fee to modify parking restrictions boundary.
 Move to move both of them together, 30 and 31. Thank you. We already voted on 30. You voted only to amend. You voted on both. Okay, great. Only on the amendments. Okay, thank you. I'm going to second the job. I'm going to second the job. Thank you. So there is a motion and a second to approve items 30 and item 31. On that motion, Mayor Potem Schwarzwein. Yep. And for the record, there's no public comment on these items. Representative Molinar? Yes.
 Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? And Representative Rodriguez was not present. The next item is on page 13. This is item number 33, discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the City of El Paso and NRS&H Incorporated for a project known as El Paso International Airport Runway 8R-26L Rehabilitation.
 Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 33 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. You're on mute, sir. Aye. Thank you. Representative Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizara? The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present.
 The next item is number 34. This is discussion in action to amend the FY 2021 budget resolution to add paragraph 74 to authorize a city manager to approve a one-time lump sum payment and the non-uniform employee classifications to include those employees who were furloughed and reinstated or placed in positions. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 34. Thank you.
 On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Before the council votes can I just make a quick statement? Yes. So this is an item that we've been wanting to do now that we are in the final steps of getting all of our furloughed employees a large majority of them over 100 have already been reinstated. We have about 30 that we're in the process right now of attempting to place by offering them the vacant positions. It's something that as part of the budget you all approved we did do the lump sum payments for our general service and professional managerial employees.
 At the time, unfortunately, our furloughed employees were not eligible to receive those payments. We did not want to impact their unemployment or cause any undue necessary harm to any other benefits they were receiving. So this item is showing that now that they are eligible, they've either been reinstated or will be placed. We want to do this to make sure that now that they are eligible, to make sure that they do get that one-time lump sum payment. And the resolution is that item that's being added. It follows the same structure as what you approved on September 1st.
 So the amounts vary depending upon what job classification you're in. It does not include an executive level, which there were none of the furlough, but it, again, follows the same structure that we used for all of our other city employees. Thank you, Robert. There is a motion and a second to approve Item 34. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Mayor Pro Tem? Yes. Thank you. Representative Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? Rivera? Great job, Mr. Cortines. Yes. Liz Arraga? Yes.
 The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodríguez not present. And the final item on the agenda is number 37. This is discussion in action regarding a resolution that the City of El Paso appoint to the Camino Real Regional Mobility Authority, Silvestre Reyes for position 2, whose term will expire on February 1st, 2023. So moved. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 37. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine. Aye. Representative Molinar, Salcido, Rodriguez. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Which item are we on? I'm sorry. We're on item number 37, ma'am, on the appointment of Mr. C.S. DeRay. 36. 36, yeah. 37, sir. 36 was the Earthworks presentation. Yes. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga.
 the motion passes unanimously you need to polish up that crystal ball you need to polish up that crystal ball i know i haven't written this 30 i kept having because it was deletes in addition so i had it as 36 because i thought the one for the public's works was 35 but that was a while ago move to adjourn second there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor aye aye anyone opposed
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, March 16th, 2021 is adjourned at 6 46 p.m. Thank you council I don't know where you're at, but it looks very nice back there Yeah, if I was out there if if we was here in el paso my hair might have been a mess Henry very 1988