you were here yeah good morning everyone mr prime is it nine o'clock yes mayor good morning good morning good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday march 14 2023 mayor lisa is present and presiding in council chambers along with representative kennedy
 Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares, Representative Fierro, Representative Rivera, Representative Hernandez is joining virtually, Representative Salcido is also joining virtually this morning. It is 9.03 a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning, sir. I would invite everybody to join me as I pray.
 Lord, we thank you for your wisdom. As citizens of heaven as well as El Paso, we ask you to fill us with wisdom and revelation by the power of your spirit. Enable us to know you better, to know your will and your plans for our lives. We acknowledge you as the creator of all and ask your guidance as we seek to fulfill our roles as stewards of your creation. Father, give us a heart of wisdom.
 May your wisdom produce in us creative ideas and solutions to problems. May you give us sound counsel and good judgment to help us make good decisions and grant us the courage to do what is right. May you also give us greater knowledge and understanding so that we may live skillfully and give back what is good and excellent to our community. Amen.
 And this morning to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance are the following students from Harmony School of Excellence. Aubrey Vega, Gianna Vega, Leann Almaraz, Benjamin Duncan, Neelofar Diagi, Jimena Garcia, Sebastian Rusmullin, Audrey Chavira, Estrella Ceballos, Elizabeth Yu, and Adrian Hernandez Luna.
 And for the record, Representative Canales is also present in council chambers. Good morning, everyone. I would like to thank the
 The Harmony School of Excellence for the Pledge of Allegiance, it was wonderful. And, you know, I look around always, and it's really important we look and know our surroundings. And I always say that the youth is the future of our country. And by getting to meet you all today, I can tell you that our country is in great hands. So thank you for being here.
 And I do want to make a little announcement, make sure everyone knows in the room and also council that moving forward, our microphones will be on prior to the meeting and after the meeting ends. So, and also for the people out here, the mics will be live as long as there's council members in council chambers, we will have live mics. So I want to make sure everyone knows that it'll be moving forward. And I think that's to make sure there's people that understand their own.
 Thank you for that. And now I do want to have a moment of silence. You know, our city is we have a lot of veterans, and I know that the county judge has declared El Paso the veteran capital of the world. And so it's always important to recognize our veterans and thank our veterans for always serving our country. And today I want to have a moment of silence that 20 years ago,
 the Iraq war started and there was a lot of men and women that went out to protect our borders, protect our country. And I thank them and I thank everyone that served to give us the freedom to become elected officials, to be able to have the freedom of speech. And I want to have a moment of silence for the men and women who sacrificed their lives for our military in our country. Thank you and may God bless them and may God bless America.
 Thank you, Mayor. Counsel, for this meeting, there is a limit of 10 minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item. Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the day as well the meeting is in session. For those of you joining us virtually, please make sure your microphones are muted to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the Mayor's Proclamation. The first proclamation is World TB Day. Representative Lillian Arnott.
 Good morning. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas each year the City of El Paso Department of Public Health recognizes World TB Day on March 24th to commemorate the date in 1882 when Dr. Robert Koch
 announced his discovery of micro bacterium tuberculosis, the bacillus that causes tuberculosis TB, and whereas tuberculosis is an infectious disease that infects the lungs and other parts of the body, causing serious illness and death if not treated.
 And whereas multi-drug resistant TB, MDR-TB, remains a public health crisis as only one in three people access treatment in 2020. And whereas an estimated 66 million lives were saved through prompt TB diagnosis and treatment between 2000 and 2020. And whereas one quarter of the world's population has a TB infection.
 individuals with compromised immune systems and other health conditions such as HIV, malnutrition, diabetes, or tobacco users are at higher risk of TB infection. And whereas in 2022, the Department of Public Health Tuberculosis Program managed and treated 31 cases of active tuberculosis and 88 latent,
 tuberculosis infections among the people from the City and County of El Paso. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that March 24, 2023 shall be known as World TB Day. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leisher, Mayor, City of El Paso. Anyone here? Yes, please. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, our Mayor Oscar Leaser and all our council members. Thank you for having us here today for our proclamation for World TB Day. We want to go ahead and thank you on behalf of all our tuberculosis team.
 That's here behind me. I'm the program manager, Annette Gonzalez, and nurse practitioner for the program. We are continue to service the community. That's what we're here for. We are anticipating obviously an increase
 in patients that will be coming through our clinic due to this influx of migrants. Okay. Currently, so far for this year, 2023, we are currently at nine active TB, newly TB cases that have been diagnosed. So again, we are here for the community. We are available Monday through Friday, 8 to 5, so anybody that might need assistance in
 go ahead and come in so they can get screened and evaluated for possible tuberculosis. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for what you all do. And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, Council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is National Public Health Week.
 Proclamation the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas the week of April 3rd through 9th, 2023 is National Public Health Week and the theme is centering and celebrating cultures and health.
 And whereas the goal of National Public Health Week in 2023 is to recognize the contributions of public health in improving the health of the people and achieving health equity in Texas. I'm sorry, in El Paso. And whereas a person's health status can differ drastically by zip code due to difference in the built environment, environmental quality, community context, access to healthy food, access to education, and access to health care.
 And whereas public health professionals have worked tirelessly to help communities prevent, prepare for, withstand, and recover from the impact of a range of health threats, including disease outbreaks such as COVID-19 pandemic, measles, natural disasters caused by human activity, and other public health emergencies.
 And whereas public health professionals collaborate with partners outside of the health sector, including city planners, transport officials, education officials, and private businesses, recognizing that other sectors can influence health outcomes. And whereas communities across the United States, individuals are changing the way they care for their health by avoiding tobacco use, eating healthier, increasing physical activity, and preventing unintentional injuries at home and in the workplace.
 And whereas efforts to adequately support public health and the prevention of disease and injury can continue to transform a health system focused on treating illness into a health system focused on preventing disease and injury and promoting wellness. And whereas we call upon the people of El Paso to observe this week by helping our family, friends, neighbors, coworkers, and leaders to better understand the value of public health and supporting great opportunities to adopt prevention lifestyle habits in light of this year's theme, centering and celebrating cultures and health.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that the week of April 3rd through April 9th, 2023, shall be known as National Public Health Week, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Joy Leos, and on behalf of the Department of Public Health and my colleagues, I would like to extend our deepest thanks. The public health field is challenging, even in the best of times. These past three years have been anything but.
 It takes a multidisciplinary team to address numerous complex and complicated problems. I'm grateful for our public health team and other public health professionals nationwide who have worked tirelessly, especially in recent years. Our department's main priority is the health and well-being of the El Paso community. We will continue to invest our time and efforts to ensure that our community is taken care of because it matters to us.
 This National Public Health Week is an opportunity to call upon our community, mostly our leaders, to understand the value of public health. We invite them to support opportunities that will allow everyone to adopt preventative lifestyle habits that can help improve the health of our community. I would also like to take this moment to thank each employee of the Department of Public Health, past and present, for their tireless work and dedication to our community.
 Thank you to our colleges and universities who are helping to create future public health leaders and our community-based organization and partners who are crucial in public health. Owen Arthur and Dr. Leanna Wen once said, public health depends on winning over hearts and minds. It's not enough to just have a good policy, you have to convince people to actually follow it. That is what we will continue to strive to do. Dr. Wen also said, for he who has health has hope,
 and he who has hope has everything. Thank you very much for this proclamation. We appreciate all of you. Thank you. And thank you all for being here. The next proclamation is National Infant Immunization Week. Representative Fiora. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are giving children the recommended immunizations by the age of 2
 According to childhood immunization schedule, it is best way to protect them from 14 serious childhood diseases and whereas the Center for Disease Control and Prevention recognizes immunizations as one of the 10 great public health achievements of the first 10 years of the 21st century because of the
 They have presented more than 42 prevented at least 42,000 deaths and 20 million cases of disease in the United States. Whereas one time vaccination is critical to provide protection against potentially life threatening diseases, preserve health among infants, whereas the city of.
 El Paso Department of Public Health continually seeks ways to improve access and overcome disparities and delivering of vaccines to reduce the portion of unimmunized
 children and adults in our community. And whereas the city of El Paso Department of Public Health provide education, guidance, and technical support to 107 local providers to implement and maintain high quality immunization practices across our community. Whereas in 2022, the city of El Paso and the public health department successfully administered 14,776 vaccines to 4,968 patients.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the week of April 24th through April 30th, 2023 shall be known as National Infant Immunization Week, signed Honorable Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Good morning. The immunization program would like to thank the Major and the Council for this National Infant Immunization Week proclamation.
 This event is celebrated at the end of April and is a great opportunity for us to educate families on the importance of vaccine preventable diseases and also to create a community free of vaccine preventable diseases. Once again, thank you very much for this proclamation and on behalf of all our staff, thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pine, now I'd like to take item 22, please.
 item 22 is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing march 21st 2023 as world down syndrome day representative thank you mayor
 Whereas, World Down Syndrome Day is being observed in the city of El Paso on March 21, 2023, to promote awareness of the many ways that we benefit by ensuring that persons with Down syndrome are supported, encouraged, and included in communities, in our communities. And whereas, Down syndrome, the most commonly occurring chromosomal disease,
 condition occurs in individuals who have a full or partial extra copy of a chromosome 21 one of every 700 babies born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome and whereas medical advances have significantly increased the life expectancy of people with Down syndrome which is now approaching that of peers without the condition
 In addition to the advantages of modern medicine, support groups and other resources are now available in nearly every community in the United States. And, whereas when provided with quality education programs, a stimulating home environment, good health care, and support from family and friends, people with Down syndrome can lead fulfilling, productive lives.
 Much progress has been made through the vision and hard work of parents, researchers, medical professionals, and other advocates who have helped secure the rights of people with Down syndrome to live at home, attend schools, access appropriate health care, get married, find work, and contribute to society. While research and early intervention have dramatically improved the lifespan and quality of life persons,
 With condition, more work remains to be done to fully comprehend the causes and to explore potential treatments. And, whereas in 2011 the United Nations General Assembly declared March 21st as World Down Syndrome Day, this year the City of El Paso, Texas is joining with other cities and countries around the globe in recognition of this special event.
 and all El Pasoans are encouraged to take part by helping to build a cultural of greater respect and inclusion for those living with Down syndrome. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the city council of the city of El Paso that the city of El Paso, Texas, hereby recognizes March 21st, 2023 as World Down Syndrome Day in the city of El Paso and honors the accomplishments and contributions made by men and women with Down syndrome. Thank you.
 Before you speak, Mr. Moody, and with that, I make a motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second, Ms. Pern? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Moody. Thank you. We're going to – you want to take the action first? Sure. One second, Judge. Remember, never tell the judge one second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Salcido? Yes.
 Thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously You should note mayor that I did not attempt to say wait a minute to the judge Thank you a charity that I'm very involved with and a lot of it has to do with the kids and They're special and I love meeting them. I like going to all their and
 events when I can and but you know, I love the kids that their attitude their outlook is incredible and I give back a lot to the community, but I can honestly say and I know that Judge Moody will tell you this is definitely my favorite charity that I'm a big part of your honor. I
 Thank you so much, Mayor, City Council, representatives. In fact, we're back here as we've been here many, many times. You've had resolutions and proclamations, helping and assisting and recognizing and most importantly accepting people with Down syndrome in our community. We are probably one of the most accepting communities in all of America because of
 City and county officials such as you taking the time and and opportunities to to make our community aware and First and then later as we have seen being so accepting and and generous to us And so we want to thank you for the resolutions celebrating world Down Syndrome Day on March 21st coming up next week and
 There are now over 1,000 individuals living in El Paso with Down syndrome. These are children and adults, and they have incredible abilities and talents, and they are achieving wonderful things because of the advances, because of the acceptance.
 And we want to thank all of you so much for the work that you have done and You know we many of you have participated in our events and particularly mayor Leeser, you know, we've we've enjoyed having you at many of our events and we Welcome all of you to come out to our Down syndrome Achievement Center located on
 It's Sunland Park Mall. That is the Gigi's Playhouse. We have our founder here. I think I see her somewhere. There's my wife, Maggie. So thank you all so much. I thought Melissa was the founder. Melissa? And then, of course, the boss here is going to talk for a minute here. Melissa, you want to say a few words? Well, thank you.
 Oscar Leisha, thank you, Senator from at work that someday and that's it. Your Honor, can you introduce all the kids to us, please? If they can come up and say their name, it'd be great. They say hi to the council. You guys want to say hi? Hi. I'm Mr. Keebo. Good morning. Elisa. Good morning. Good morning.
 We have a lot of our board members here today. Thank you all for being here. Anyone else want to say hi? Thank you all. Ms. Parnes, I think we need the recess for a minute. Yes, Mayor. Is there a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess a city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye. The meeting is in recess at 9.32 a.m. So council can take some photos with this morning's honorees.
 Second to reconvene the council meeting all in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9 50 a.m. That brings us to the consent agenda. I make a motion. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 2, delete request or excuse. Page 3, item 3, move to the regular agenda per Representative Kennedy. Page 3, item 2, delete request or excuse.
 Page 4 item 4 move to the regular agenda agenda per representative Kennedy. Page 4 item 5 move to the regular agenda per representative Canales. Page 9 item 21 revised per representative Canales. And that revision is to add Mayor Pro Tem Manalo as the co-sponsor of the item. Thank you. Page 9 item 22 move to the forefront per representative Rivera. Page 9 item 23 move to the forefront per representative Kennedy.
 Page 9, item 24, move to the forefront for Representative Rivera. Page 9, item 26, take item at 10 a.m. per economic and international development. Page 10, item 27, take item at 10 a.m. per economic and international development. Page 10, item 28, take item at 10 a.m. per economic and international development. Page 10, item 30, take item at 10 a.m. per economic and international development.
 Well, Ms. Prime is getting that. I know that Congresswoman is going to be doing a presentation, but I do want to welcome you to City Council Chambers. Thank you for being here. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Aye.
 Mayor, would you like to move to the first item that was moved to the forefront? Yes, ma'am. Please. That will be item 23, and this is discussion in action regarding the procedure for appointment of Kerry Weston as interim city manager effective June 30, 2023. Representative Kennedy? Yeah, I'd like to make a motion. Second. We have a motion and a second. We do have some public comment. Yes, Mayor. Mayor, before that, I got a question for the retinue.
 Is that at the end of the 120 days? Yes, sir. Okay. It should be on the backup or it could be on the reading. It says effective June 30th. Okay. Yes, sir. He'll work with Mr. Gonzalez to transition at this point. We do have public comment. Yes, ma'am. From Mr. Arnulfo Hernandez. Thank you, sir. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Thank you, Madam Clerk.
 I think this is the first time I've been number one on whatever item it was. Eighty percent of the voters voted for you folks, Mayor Leaser, Mr. Fierro, Mr. Canales, Mr. Kennedy. And they gave you a mandate. Move the city forward, not backwards. The arena is no longer a distraction. Duranguito lives. And we will have a new city manager, interim city manager, July 1, 2023. Thank you.
 But there's no guarantees that Mr. Gonzalez will stay until June 30th. Therefore, it's prudent, it's proactive and smart to appoint an interim city manager. Can I see that? City manager that hits the ground running and there is little or no learning curve. Therefore, appoint an interim city manager now, not later. Point number two, retired Colonel Carol Weston is the right choice for interim city manager.
 He is currently an employee of the city of El Paso, which means the appointment comes from within the ranks of the employees. I wholeheartedly support it because it promotes a morale of the employees, good morale. Colonel Weston has a sterling resume and background. He's a combat veteran.
 He served his country, someone said 24 years, but I stand corrected. I looked it up, 24.9 years, few months short of 25 years in the United States Army. In January 2014, before the arrival of Mr. Gonzalez as city manager, he was appointed the managing director of economic development for the city of El Paso. He was promoted to deputy city manager in 2017. He was promoted to senior deputy city manager in 2019.
 Colonel Weston will now assist mr. Gonzales and he takes over as interim city manager on July 1st 2023 the the appointment of an interim city manager is not new to you folks. In fact, it was used with the appointment of Sean McGlinnis interim city manager in 2014 while the search for a city manager ended with the hiring of mr Gonzales a city manager finally
 I know Mr. Weston. I've worked with Mr. Weston. I have observed his work with him. I've sat with him at hours in a meeting. I find him to be a listener. I find him to be a problem solver. He quickly grasps the issue and provides clarity with his comments. Yes, Colonel Weston is the right choice for the interim city manager, Mayor Leaser, and members of the city council. Move us forward.
 and do the people's work. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The next statement was submitted by Mr. Richard Dayup to be read into the record, and it reads, Good morning, Mayor Lee, and members of City Council. For the record, I am Richard Dayup, and I am a registered lobbyist with the City of El Paso. Please accept my apology for being unable to attend the meeting today due to personal commitments.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you regarding the selection and appointment of Mr. Kerry Weston as the interim city manager. I have known Kerry Weston for a number of years, dating back to when he first retired from the Army and began working with Bob Cook with REDCO, the predecessor organization of the Borderplex Alliance.
 Since then, I've had the privilege of working closely with Kerry for the 10 years that he served in city government. I consider Kerry to be the most qualified individual in our community to serve in the position as city manager. He has the expertise and background to step into the position without missing a beat.
 He has a trust and respect of his colleagues at the city, city council members, and the business community. Importantly, from his military service at Fort Bliss, he has an in-depth knowledge of the operations at Fort Bliss, our community's largest employer. The city is going through an unprecedented period of a strong economic growth. It is also going through a period of transition and change. In my opinion, Mr. Weston is the only person who can help the city's employees.
 navigate through the many changes occurring and ease the uncertainty that accompanies such periods i Strongly urge city council to unanimously approve the appointment of mr. Weston to the position of interim city manager Thank you respectfully richard day thunderbird management consulting thank you miss pine yes sir and with that we have We have four members of council to speak starting with representative kennedy followed by mayor pro temp
 The job of an interim is a couple of fold. It's to act as a bridge, and it's to calm the waters. And I don't know of anybody that I would have more confidence in than Colonel Weston. As a matter of fact, I pulled the proclamation for Colonel Kerry Weston Day a year ago, which talked about his three years with Borderplex, El Paso Regional Economic Development Corporation, as Vice President of Business Development for Defense and Clean Technology Sectors.
 responsible for attracting new industry. Obviously, he was a senior deputy city manager. Twenty-five years. I'll give you the other tenth of a year, okay? Twenty-five years active duty in a variety of critical command and staff, a four-year assignment director of air defense, artillery test directive, a U.S. Army operational test command at Fort Bliss,
 Led a team of 200 military, Department of Army civilian and contractor personnels in design, coordination, execution of operational tests and field experiments to support the weapon systems. This is from Colonel Kerry Weston Day last year, May 24th. And I think that we would do well to have Colonel Weston calm the waters and act as the bridge and provide the comfort and expertise that he brings to the table.
 I look forward to working with him starting the transition and continuing through until we finish the process and have a permanent city manager thank you sir thank you mayor so really excited to see this item today I know there's been you know a lot of questions about what the
 priority of the council is in the plan for the council is and I think this you know is a really great way to transition we are in a really unique position and we're very lucky that we have mr. Gonzalez here for another 120 well it's a little less than 120 days till June to really help with that transition I have heard a little bit of concern about how that transition will work out specifically when it comes to executing contracts
 with the hiring, firing of staff. And so my concern with this item is that it makes the interim take effect in June.
 I think really understanding that we are in a kind of lame-duck city manager period is more appropriate and I think that transition should start sooner limiting the current city managers ability to execute contracts and to hire and fire staff within that lame-duck period and so if that is an amendment I need to make to the agenda item I can do so now mayor
 If I may, Representative, there would be some issues related to how the charter of the city is structured into the contract. If we need to go into executive session for legal advice, I can provide some context.
 I understand your concerns and I don't disagree with them but I think that those need to be taken in the item that Representative Canales put on that will show process and procedures moving forward. Okay, I will hold my comments until that item. I apologize. I think that it was a good item that Representative Canales put on there because we need to look at the next step and kind of move forward on a process.
 as you said, you're a process guy. So that's what we want to look at is to continue the next process and how do we do that. I've had numerous conversations with the city attorney, and I've had numerous conversations with Ms. Rehm on that process that we're looking forward to sharing with you all. So thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Yeah, I think some of my colleagues have covered a lot of the praise that Colonel Weston deserves for the incredible amount of work he's put in here at the city over the years. I had the pleasure of working with him as a staffer and now as a representative. And so I think he is an excellent choice to bring us much-needed continuity
 during the time that we conduct a search for a permanent city manager whatever form that that search end ups ends up taking and we'll discuss that in a little bit here in the next item so again I just thank you mayor for the work you did in getting this on the agenda and getting us to this point and I plan to support Colonel Weston's appointment as interim city manager thank you sir
 Next is Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Molinar. Hi, good morning. Sorry, my mic kept going on and off. Good morning, Mayor. So yeah, good morning, Mayor. Good morning, members of Council. I am, you know, one of those people who also have a lot of questions.
 Um, you know, like all the deputy city managers, I believe Kerry Weston is one that is really, really well respected. I think that he can help with our strategic plan. I think he can guide this city through, you know, tumultuous and uncertain times. And so for those reasons, I'm very supportive of Kerry and his background.
 I can't like ignore the fact that there has been no process here. And so I'm certainly disappointed in the way this was approached because Mayor, had you came to council in an inclusive and transparent way, I think you would have been able to secure all of our support hands down for Mr. Weston just based on his accolades and his experience here.
 And so I am supportive of him. I'm just not supportive of the process that's been brought forward. I have questions about what an employment contract would look like. I have questions about how we got to this point. Not all members of council were engaged. I take that very seriously. Mayor, when you bring someone to a point for a interim city manager role, I think it's important that we have a discussion with all members of council so that we're not accused of
 any violations of Open Open Meetings Act. And so I know that this council has problems with that in the past.
 And so I take that very seriously because we need to be able to have these discussions they're very tough discussions lead in a very transparent process. But also look out in the best interest of all El Pasoans but that's my opinion and I wanted to share that because I think the process is going to be very critical moving forward. This isn't a strong mayor form of government it's a council manager form of government. All members of council should be involved in this process and in discussion of it.
 And so I just wanted to share those concerns, but I did want to lend my support to Mr. Weston. I think he's a wonderful, wonderful nomination. I just really wish we had a clear process that we could have had a dialogue before we got to this point. But thank you for letting me share my comments. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Molinar followed by Representative Rivera. Thank you very much, Mayor.
 Colonel Weston when you are leaving our city or employment through the city of El Paso And it was my turn to speak. I just said two words. Well done. That was it today. I say welcome aboard Thank you. Thank you, sir Thank you
 i uh i kind of have to express the same views that my fellow colleague representative hernandez just said uh i'm very uncomfortable with the posting the way this item was posted mayor we weren't included we weren't included in any discussion whatsoever this is a very important item and i've got nothing against uh but praise for mr mr wesson but it's the process that was carried out that makes it look shady
 and I wouldn't want to wish I wouldn't want to welcome Mr. Weston under those conditions or have Mr. Gonzalez leave under those same conditions. I believe that this could have been handled a lot better. I believe that if we all were included and discussion was had, I think you would have had a unified council. Instead, you have those, for example, just now that wanted to determine Mr. Gonzalez right now without considering the ramifications of
 of a contract and you have me, for example, in doubt in the way that it was carried. And it's just the process that was carried out today to place this item on the agenda. It was just going, you go back to when Michigan-Monsanto was terminated without a cause, you go back to that same realm of cloud, the black cloud hanging over this council.
 I just wish that you would have included us and this council, because the one matters, you know that I like to have this council look unified just as much as you do. And at this point, it's very difficult. And again, nothing against Mr. Weston. I have the utmost respect for him, but I also have the utmost respect for Mr. Gonzalez in his position as well. He's still the city manager. This is still a city manager form of government.
 And I feel that we could have had a more successful transition had we all been included, those of us that weren't. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 I think it's important to notice that I did meet with the city attorney three times. I met with Rez Ream twice to make sure that we do have a process, make sure that we follow the process and be followed. And as elected citywide, I want to make sure that we do, which I'll feel the same way whether you're in district or citywide, that we do the best.
 the city do the best for our team members in the city and also the business community so based on that the Miss Neiman and I worked really hard to make sure we had it clear in a clean process like I said we met three days in a row we met with Colonel Weston twice and Miss Rehm and I met twice so I want to make sure that we do see that it was something that was very
 methodically thought and gone through the process and it was worked through our attorney which is somebody that was leading me through the process and make sure we did the process properly and with that representative anello thank you mayor i just want to be very clear nobody has
 Made a motion or a comment about firing mr. Gonzalez outside of his contract I don't appreciate whether it's in the media or at this council meeting being spoken for by other representatives We have a code of conduct. I speak for myself only Thank You mayor. Thank you Now remember you all have two opportunities to talk on each item. So I
 It was meant to discourage you, to degrade you, Mr. Representative Ronello, Mayor Portem. It was just the fact that when you started off, Ms. Hamilton did have to clarify that contract issue. And so I wasn't speaking for you, I was speaking for myself. And this isn't to sound confrontational, I'm just sounding reasonable about this whole issue and how people were left out from this conversation and the mayor has his own reasons
 Thank you, sir. With that, Ms. Pryne, can we take the item? Yes, Mayor. There was a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Mayor Potem Anelo, to approve item 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Salcido? Aye.
 Thank you. And the voting session, the motion passes 7-1. Representative Rivera voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion does pass. Thank you and welcome. I know you've still been with the city and I thank you for accepting the position to continue to work and have a seamless transition.
 And thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. I know that I've been working with you in the last couple of weeks, and thank you for your professionalism. And I know I made a comment. I think it might have been to one of the cities, and they said Mr. Gonzalez always works with a professional manner because you have been, and I thank you for that, sir.
 And with that, I know it's 10 o'clock, so we'll take the next item. And then after that, I'd like to take Representative Canales' item after that, because I think just as Representative Rivera and Representative Adonis have asked, that we need to have a process and a procedure, and they'll want to be involved with it, and I couldn't agree more with them. So thank you for that. Yes, sir. That brings us to Item 26. And this is— And, Mr. Rome, hold on one second. I meant to say your name, but I—so thank you for that. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. Item 26 is presentation and discussion from the Office of Congresswoman Veronica Escobar, representative of Texas' 16th Congressional District on the upcoming FY 2024 appropriations process and other federal legislative updates.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Lindsay Adams, Legislative Liaison. Good morning, Ms. Adams. I just want to quickly introduce, we have, she needs no introduction, but Congresswoman Escobar is here with us today. But I'm going to introduce Eduardo, who's going to be giving a presentation and legislative update. Thank you. Thank you, Council, for allowing us time today to discuss the appropriations process and
 I want to just go through our agenda today. I'm going to turn it over to the Congresswoman in just a second, but I want to introduce our team. Eduardo Ledlman, the Congresswoman's Chief of Staff out in DC, born here in El Paso, and lived in DC for the last 15 years working in Congress. Want to introduce our team,
 Emily Loya, our district director, right there. Zahra Saheb, our legislative director, she'll be taking the mic in just a second to talk about the approach process. Najat Khan, our military legislative assistant who handles all our armed services work and makes sure Fort Bliss is protected and funded. Priscilla.
 yeah there uh priscilla contraras who we actually um had the opportunity of uh of stealing her from from rep rivera so thank you for pervera thank you that was a great exchange for the body cameras then manuel rodriguez in our district office as well he handles all our grant work obviously um lindsay introduced the congresswoman um want to want to turn it over now to the congresswoman uh congressman escobar
 Good morning, Mayor, Council, City Manager. Thank you all so much for the opportunity for my team and I to present this morning. What you have in your backup is a really lengthy PowerPoint. We are going to go through it quickly because we know you have a lot of business to get to today. But we wanted to be sure to put on your radar, as well as your staff's radar, the appropriations process. This is budget time for us.
 and there's some some things we want to make sure that all of you and and we're doing this with other partners as well we want to make sure that all of you know the opportunities that exist for our community to capitalize on some really important pieces of legislation I want to begin by
 reminding you all that I have the privilege of serving on three committees that are really key to our community the first is the house Armed Services Committee the second is the House Judiciary Committee I also serve on the House Ethics Committee as well and through those committees we do we focus on much of the work that ends up impacting our community
 We have, over the last two years in Congress, passed three very important pieces of legislation. In the next couple of years, we're going to execute around the implementation of that key legislation. And,
 And while at the federal level, securing this funding was really important, the other component is making sure our community is ready to compete for that money and to apply for that money and to make sure that we capitalize on those funding opportunities. The three key pieces of legislation are the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Inflation Reduction Act, and the CHIPS and Science Act.
 I want to begin briefly with the bipartisan infrastructure law. One of the things to note about this is that 50% of this funding will come through normal funding formula channels. So, you know, much of that is a process laid out in Austin. We have to be vigilant, though, to make sure that none of that money is redirected. We have seen Austin basically usurp congressional intent in,
 and redirect money that was intended for other purposes. And we don't want highway money, for example, to be diverted for wall funding. We need all of that money to go to its intended purposes. So I ask that you please join me in making sure that we communicate that priority to our delegation, who is fantastic. They will safeguard that, but we've gotta remain vigilant.
 Now the other 50% of that money, however, is up for grabs through grants and through a competitive process. And I would be remiss if I didn't mention that we've had a really great working relationship with the city of El Paso. I've been so proud to collaborate with
 this government with your leadership, with the team and staff, the city manager, and to capitalize on as many of these opportunities as possible. So please don't hesitate to reach out to us if you have questions about the funding opportunities, if you want to talk directly to the agencies, we will be there for you to help facilitate that.
 The other thing that I mentioned very quickly about the bipartisan infrastructure law, and I'm not going to read this,
 It is broader than the way that we have historically thought about infrastructure. So broadband, as an example, is included in infrastructure now. All of you know what pockets of your district may not have access to broadband, for example, so please give some thought to all of these categories and the needs that exist in the districts that you all represent.
 The CHIPS and Science Act is another really key component of the work that we did over the last two years.
 The other aspect of the bipartisan infrastructure law that I didn't mention was addressing the climate crisis. So there's really great opportunities in the bipartisan infrastructure law on climate funding. The CHIPS and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act also have some of those components as well. But the CHIPS Act really is about bringing manufacturing back to the United States. We saw how supply chain issues really made it difficult post-COVID.
 the pandemic really were a significant cause of inflation. And so the CHIPS Act is really critical to ensuring that we bring that manufacturing back home. So for your economic development department, as we're thinking about reshoring, please think about the CHIPS and Science and Innovation Act.
 The Inflation Reduction Act. That piece of legislation, as I mentioned, is kind of the other half of the bipartisan infrastructure law on climate. So there will be a lot of incentives available for addressing the climate crisis in the Inflation Reduction Act. And so we want to make sure that our community takes advantage of this. And it's not just local governments like cities and counties.
 But school boards, for example, we want to make sure all of our school districts know about the Clean Bus Program. We brought the EPA administrators so that they could get their questions answered. We want to transition to a clean economy, and at the federal level, we really know that incentives are a key component of that. I'm going to turn it over in just a sec to my team to continue talking about some of these federal funding opportunities.
 But where El Paso has really excelled, and again, I want to express my gratitude to all of you and everybody who works at the city, but the city has really, our community has excelled in capitalizing on community project funding.
 And just as a quick reminder, community project funding used to be known as earmarks many moons ago. Earmarks went away, but two years ago, House Democrats worked on bringing it back
 We worked in a bipartisan manner to make sure that we had support to bring back community project funding. And what that is basically is ensuring that members of Congress are able to identify specific pots of money to help their community with various projects that might not otherwise receive federal funding or that may have to wait in a long queue for federal funding.
 The good news is, even though the House Democrats lost control of the House, we kept community project funding. The bad news is that my Republican colleagues have significantly cut the amount of money available. So the same amounts of money are...
 are not available these next two years. They have also cut some of the agencies that fund infrastructure, for example, for veterans, that fund projects in education, that fund access to healthcare. And those were really key and critical for our community. So while I'm disappointed that those cuts and those new parameters were put in place,
 I want you to know that we will work with you to try to figure out a way to fund your projects and to find a creative avenue to making sure that El Paso continues to get the money. And with that, I'd like to turn it back over to my Chief of Staff, Eduardo Lerma. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Congresswoman. And, you know, just a couple big wins from BIF, from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill.
 got a raise grant for the city for the Sleda Bridge and then obviously the
 reconstruction or not reconstruction the uh revitalization of the bridge of the americas we were able to secure 600 million dollars um for that uh project as we're working through that for um i believe april 4th there'll be a community conversation at the chamisal with general services administration or government services services administration they're going to be overseeing that uh so we'll make sure the council gets that information if you want to share it with your constituents um
 moving forward. So what we're gonna talk about next is the actual appropriations process. You all have probably received an email from myself or Zada or somebody from our office on the appropriations process. We work very closely with city staff and your all's individual staff
 on on soliciting ideas for that. So the appropriations project these are all the 12 accounts. Sorry the 12 pieces of legislation that we will be covering some of them have been like the congresswoman said have been banned from moving forward with community project funding.
 But I'll turn it at this point to Zahra Saheb, our legislative director. She's our points person on the appropriations process to kind of go through the next couple slides. And then we will turn it over to Emily Loya to talk about our constituent services and how we want to partner with each one of your all's districts to better serve the El Paso community. Zahra. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Eduardo, and thank you so much for this time today. My name is Zahra Sahib. I'm the Congresswoman's Legislative Director based in Washington, D.C., and I will be going over just very quickly the appropriation process in the House this year. Some of this information you're familiar with. Others, we're continuously conversing with your staff about the different guidelines and restrictions that have come out. So I'll just provide a very quick top-line overview.
 If you're all familiar through the appropriation process, there are three different requests or mechanisms in which we can request funding or influence the process. Programmatic requests are plus ups to existing programs and agencies.
 Those are not tied to the district in any way or any specific local projects. Language requests are directing the agency to take a different course, expanding programs, expanding eligibility for existing grants, agencies, et cetera.
 Those are also national levels, so we can't, anything that ties El Paso to those requests would trigger the earmark or what is not known as the community project funding request. And I'll go through that briefly, because that's, I would think, with most interest to our community, and we've been very successful in securing a lot of funding through this process that, as the congressman said, was brought back by Democrats two years ago. And as you're familiar, I guess I'll click next,
 On our website, there's a lot of information that we'll go over today, but a resource guide that provides very extensive information as far as the accounts that are funding eligible, the restrictions that Republicans have put together this year, and all the different eligibility guidelines that we're working around this year.
 So that'll be Escobar.house.gov and it'll have all the information and a dedicated web page just for community funding projects. Very important dates that I want to flag between now and March 17th, which is this Friday, we're accepting projects. If you do need more time as you're continuing to generate ideas for things and you're looking through accounts, which we're very accessible to help you find as well as the congresswoman said,
 please let us know, we're more than happy to work with you and extend that deadline as much as we can. We do have internal deadlines that the committees have put forth that we have to work under, but please do reach out to our office and we're more than happy to work with you. As far as letting folks know of projects that are submitted by our office, those communications will come out later this month.
 Very quickly, I'll go over some of the guidelines that we will be working under in addition to some new that Republicans have put forth. Of course, like last year, we'll be able to only submit 15 projects out of the projects being submitted to us.
 State, local, tribal governments and nonprofits are eligible. Nonprofits are not. Projects, of course, as always, have to demonstrate community support. So you might be getting communication from other stakeholders in the county and the city requesting for letters of support because those do go a long way in terms of making a very robust and strong submission.
 State and local matching is of course a requirement for some of these accounts depending on the account that you're applying under. All of this information and what the percentages are are in the resource guide as well.
 Each project has to be spent or obligated in the next fiscal year, so think of these as one-time infusions of fundings. In your proposal, you have to prove that you're not requesting multi-year funding for these projects. These are one-time only and have to be spent within that following year. Of course, as always, neither the congresswoman or her immediate family can benefit or have any sort of financial interest in the projects that we submit.
 We ask that you provide a budget breakdown so that the committee can see where the funding is going towards. This year, with the added criteria that the House Appropriators have put forth, there is a lot more vetting and scrutiny when looking at these projects. So we're asking individuals who are submitting requests to bring in and share with us as much information as possible.
 The two new guidelines that have been put forth from Republicans include a
 ban on memorials museums and commemoratives from eligibility in addition to a federal nexus so this year we've been asked to essentially provide a an existing authorization that links your project to existing federal authority that is a requirement that we're more than happy to work with
 individuals with, so please don't, you know, don't trouble yourself too much with that, but use it as kind of a framework to kind of build your project around, because Republicans are gonna wanna see how this kind of supports ongoing federal authorizations and laws.
 And of course, we always tell individuals, please make sure that anything you submit, you're comfortable being disclosed because that is a requirement we have to work with. This is an example of a project that got funded last year. This is the letter that we have to put on our website in addition to a breakdown of what the project is, address, recipient, et cetera.
 This is all on our website as well, but this is a breakdown of all the projects that the congressmen secured last year, a total of 25 million. We've also identified next to each project the districts where this funding will go. So some incredible funding that was secured last year through the process under the Democrats.
 And then of course, I'll go through this year the different accounts that are funding eligible, as the Congresswoman and Eduardo alluded to. This year, unfortunately, House Republican appropriators failed communities like ours by completely banning projects within the defense subcommittee, within financial services and general government, labor, health and human services, education and related agencies,
 So that's DOD for a community like ours, completely banned. Department of Education, Department of Health, Department of Labor, Small Business Administration, completely ineligible for funding. And so just to kind of give you a visual of what these restrictions would have, the position that they would have put us in last year and the funding that we would have lost out on as a community, this is the list of projects that we were able to secure under democratic guidelines.
 And this is what would have been ineligible under Republican guidelines this year. So very unfortunate. And next, I'll go very quickly, all the different subcommittees that are eligible, the different accounts that have been added in addition to the different accounts that have been removed under those different subcommittees. Of course, for the Ag, Rural Development, we have a new account that's been added. That's a Rural Water and Waste Disposal Grants account.
 I also want to highlight that this is the account that is essentially the healthcare outlets that we're using this year. So as the congressman said, we're thinking through creative ways in which we can get around some of the restrictions that Republicans have put. So please work with our team on ideas you have and we're happy to look at accounts that might work. And then Commerce Justice Science, we have one account that's been removed, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the construction account.
 Energy and water development, a complete ban on all Department of Energy projects. Homeland security, you still have the two FEMA accounts from last year. And then interior had a lot of accounts that were removed. The list is above. And then military construction, and I think this was the most disappointing to our team, is Republican appropriators completely banning Department of Veteran Affairs minor construction accounts. So for a community like El Paso, which is a huge veteran defense community, this...
 This one I think was the hardest to swallow. And then transportation, there were two accounts that were added. The consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements account, in addition to the port infrastructure development program. I do wanna highlight that does not include, for the port infrastructure account specifically, does not include land ports of entry. That's only dock, rail, and terminal.
 And that concludes my presentation. Again, if you have any questions, please reach out to our office. We're very accessible and we'd love to hear your ideas. And I'll just note our grant services, we work
 work very closely with the city in in working on advocating at the federal level uh the different grants available to the community making sure you can secure them that's we've been very successful at that for a whole host of city and county grants that we have been able to get back for the uh the community so please reach out to manu riegas introduced him earlier if you want to learn more about that
 Also, if you know of nonprofits in your community that would, or in your district that would, we have a distribution and a list of about 700 individuals throughout the community that community project fundings would be applicable for. If you know of any more, please email us, work with us. We wanna get that information out as to many people as possible.
 I'm going to turn it over to Emily Loya, our district director, to talk about how we can partner with you all as we move forward to make sure that all constituents in this community are best engaged by all levels of the federal and local level. Emily. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. I'll be brief. We've shared this before with council, but want to make sure we have some new council members and also maybe some new staff. So I want to make sure you and your teams are aware of how we assist constituents and how you can refer any of your shared constituents over to us as well as some of the programs that our office runs.
 so we a big area where we help is with federal casework so any issue that your constituents having with social security veterans affairs with the IRS it's tax season right many other areas it
 USCIS other areas we are we're here to help with that if a lot of times your staff as well as ours are helping people navigate what is federal versus state versus local we're happy to help field that and we you know redirect folks back to your offices a lot of times too so thanks for your partnership
 For folks that do have a federal issue, we have a privacy release form. In the past it was only via paper and agencies required wet signatures, but now almost every single agency takes a digital signature, so there is a digital form on our website which just increases accessibility. But for those who aren't comfortable with digital, there's still an option for paper. Folks can come to our office or we can mail them a form to their home.
 and then they write out their concerns, and then they submit their request. We help them clarify anything before it gets submitted to the agency. Our office cannot change the outcome from an agency, but we can make sure that our constituents are responded to and that their concerns are addressed or that they create any clarity that they need. If it is a legal matter, we cannot intervene in that aspect. So just to note there.
 It can take up to 30 to 60 days to get a response sometimes, but often much faster than that to continue to work on our relationships with each agency. Just a copy there of the kind of information on the digital privacy release form. And then beyond casework, we do a lot in the community with young people and with other levels of constituents. So we wanted to make sure you're aware, Priscilla, who many of you know, is the point of contact
 art competition you see in the photos there our most recent congressional winner for the art competition her artwork hangs in the tunnel and when you come visit in DC you'll see it as you walk in and 435 pieces from across the across all congressional districts so that's a great opportunity to showcase students work we invite you to help share that information out we'll be launching this year's contest in the coming weeks
 And that's a spring activity and then we have congressional app challenge around stem and coding specifically It's for sixth through twelfth grade the the our competitions high school only and we had over 80 students Participate this year, which is was a record number and that's a typically a fall activity so we'll be launching that over the summer and then awarding in the fall and
 And this one, I really invite you to engage with us. We were out at the city, you see the photo there with city library services, kind of a quick opportunity to visit the West Side Library that just reopened and visit with the team. But the Library of Congress surplus books
 we're in communication with the city library staff, but if one's in your district, we're happy to join up with you and deliver some books and to just promote literacy. And these are free books. We can't pick specific titles, but genres in different areas and probably mostly children's books for our libraries is what they've been telling us and bilingual books.
 So contact Priscilla if you're interested in doing that with and community groups are also eligible anybody that has a, you know, a library in schools as well. And then we also highlighting that we have service academy nominations so young people in your community that are interested in serving in the arts.
 Through a service academy and getting an appointment, they have to get a nomination as well for any of the four academies. So that is a pretty lengthy process. We encourage them to start early. We reach out in the schools consistently. But I want to make sure that you know you can direct them to our office if anybody reaches out an interest on those areas. And our deadlines are in December each year. So we're actually having our reception later this week for this year's nominees. Okay.
 And young people are always interested in internships, and I know you guys connect with a lot of folks, and you may have internships in your own office. And our summer internships are our deadline of the 31st, but it's on every semester we have new internships. They're both in DC and in our district.
 district. So great opportunity to learn to serve and sometimes folks might do both as well. And a great foot in the door for congressional career. Also something new to our office is that we this year launched Congresswoman encouraged us to launch a youth advisory council. So we just met with them for like our fourth or fifth time yesterday and it's a group of young people that were competitively applied to talk about federal issues that they're interested in and learn more about federal
 and tackle those issues and advise us on their perspectives on a variety of topics. So that's our youth council and that's for high school students.
 A couple of additional services is my last slide. If you're headed to D.C. or any of your constituents are, know that they can reach out to us for White House tours, Capitol building tours, Library of Congress. We need a couple weeks' notice to make sure. It's pretty busy on the Hill now. People are traveling a lot more. So make sure you reach out early, but we'll do our best to fit everybody in. We also can assist with presidential greetings for milestone occasions and flag requests.
 any type of congressional commendation, we're happy to assist your offices with those. So there's a list of the different topics that we can do and partner with you. And also, Congresswoman loves to get out to your community meetings. I know we've been with several of you, but know that Priscilla is our point of contact for helping schedule those out throughout the year. And so she can do kind of a town hall with your city meetings with your constituents as well. So thank you for your partnership. And...
 Any questions? Thank you. For the congresswoman. Thank you so much, Emily. And that's it. I know it was a lot of information. Thank you for your indulgence. We wanted to put all of this on your radar. My team has done this in years past.
 but this meeting coincided with my time here at home. So it's a privilege to come before you, a privilege to partner with you and support the work of the city and any way that we can continue to uplift your work and help pull down the funding that we appropriate and that I vote on in Washington, we're delighted. So unless you have any questions, we'll let you get back to your city business.
 thank you again for being here thank you all have a great meeting bye-bye and thank you for the team with that ms prime i know that uh we did have some public comment on consent agenda that we skipped and i apologize for that uh can we reconsider our consent agenda please mayor can we also since we're amending the agenda a little bit um yes i know which one it is i know which one it is i know which one you want can we move 25 to follow 28.
 Yes, I knew that's the one you wanted. Thanks. And with that, do we have a motion to reconsider consent agenda, please? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider the consent agenda. All in favor? Anyone opposed? We do have public comment on item 9, 11, 18, and 19. Ms. Turner? Yes.
 Yes, sir. Item number nine is a resolution that the city manager is authorized to sign an amendment to the lease agreement with the government of the country of El Salvador for the lease space located at 400 West San Antonio. Sorry about that, Ms. Turner. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Council. I was just curious. Is this an embassy or are they just here for our good food? I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. Is this an embassy of Ecuador? It's a consulate. Huh? A consulate. A consulate. Okay. Okay.
 There was nothing in here that said it was, so I'm just curious. 11. Yeah, it's just a renew at least. We're going to go to 11. Can you read 11 into the record, Ms. Pine? Yes, 11 is a resolution finding the art craft project will have no adverse impact to the Sunset Terrace Linear Park. I saw nothing in the backup that actually proved that there's no such impact. I'm assuming there's going to be construction, and if there's construction, there's going to be an impact, especially if you take parts of it.
 So how did you how did they come about with the decision that it would not impact the area. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'm asking if Yvette Hernandez is on the line from CID. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yes. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. It's Jerry Demero. But Jerry Demero is Jerry could you address the question please. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yes. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. The question is it's there will be construction. The amount of land disturbance amounts to about 800 square feet.
 And when TxDOT has completed their construction, they will restore the linear part to its original condition. Will it restrict access to it during this construction? No, it will not. No, it will not. All right. Thank you.
 item 18 19 I found interesting 18 you signed up on 18 also and this is the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue a purchase order to El Paso County Hospital District DBA University Medical Center of El Paso referencing contract 2020-268 El Paso County Hospital District lab services my question is what kind of lab services what kind of lab services
 I'm not sure if anyone from Health Department is on the line. They're here. Okay. They're here to answer your question. She's right behind you, Ms. Turner. Hello. Vanessa Lagunas from Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. The lab services will include rapid testing, COVID testing, TB testing, as well as STD testing. Thank you for that. And, Ms. Turner, if I may add, also on the laboratory testing, this is Dr. Carranza for the record. And the laboratory testing that we sent to the University Medical Center is specialized testing in regards to testing
 Some of the STDs, also strategic purchasing set, some of the other testing is very complex testing that University Medical Center is gonna be doing for us. I just wanted to know what we were doing. That's it, you answered my question. Yeah, UMC has been a great partner to the city and we continue to reach out to them to help us execute. Next item would be item 19.
 Item 19 is the award of solicitation 2023-0307, heavy-duty vehicle and tank repair services to Frontera Radiators and Parts, Inc. Do we have tanks? Do we have what? Tanks. Tanks? It says award of solicitation, heavy-duty vehicle, and tank repair. I'm just curious. Do we have tanks? Right behind you, Ms. Turner. Ms. Turner?
 No, ma'am, I don't believe we have tanks, but they're fuel tanks. This is Nicole Cody. Yes, ma'am. That was the confusion. I figured I was going to ask you if you had the last version of what grew from the Sherman was the M60A4s or an Abrams. I just was just curious. Thank you, Ms. Turner, for your time. And with that, do we have a motion to approve? Do we have a second? Second. Thank you.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve the consent agenda, and this is to include the previously read revisions, to move items three, four, and five to the regular agenda, to revise item 21, to move items 24, 27, 28, and 30 to the forefront, and I believe also item 25 to the forefront.
 that motion call for the vote representative Kennedy thank you representative Hernandez yes thank you representatives I'll see though I thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously mayor Pro Tem Anelo not present mayor would you like to go to item 24 yes sir
 Item 24 is discussion and action to establish a defined process with formal input from members of council and the mayor for the selection of both an interim city manager and ultimately a permanent city manager this item was submitted by representatives canales and and Rivera Have we?
 Sorry, we had Representative Gonzalez, and then we moved EHN to follow that, and then we had presentation. Oh, there you are. I'm sorry. I didn't see you there. From Ms. Farini. That's correct. I'm sorry. We'll do that next. I didn't see him there. Item 27 is presentation and discussion from the Office of Congressman Tony Gonzalez, representative of Texas' 23rd Congressional District on the upcoming FY 2024 appropriations process and other federal legislative updates.
 good morning again mayor and council i'm just going to introduce rodrigo he works for congressman tony gonzalez and he'll be giving a presentation and legislative update
 And good morning, Sharon. I know everywhere we go, every ribbon cutting, every opening of a park, you're at every one of them. And I thank you for that. It's not a bad omen. Don't worry, Mayor. We're always happy to see you. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for always being there. Thank you. Council City Manager Tommy Gonzalez, Rodrigo Estrada, Regional District Director for Congressman Tony Gonzalez, proudly representing Texas' 23rd Congressional...
 district. The Congressman sends his apologies for not being here today. He is currently in Fort Davis surveying the damage caused by recent brush fires in the county, but he is kind enough to send a video message for the council to view. If we could pull that up.
 Hello, this is U.S. Congressman Tony Gonzalez, 20-year Navy veteran, representing the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. It is my great honor to represent over half of El Paso County, including parts of Northeast El Paso, Fort Bliss, and the Lower Valley. I want to thank all of you for your hard work on behalf of the City of El Paso and look forward to our continued partnerships.
 In Congress, I'm proud to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, which has allowed me to secure critical funding for regional priorities. For example, in partnering with Representative Escobar, I helped secure $700 million for the construction of a new VA health care center at Beaumont Army Medical Center. This new facility is expected to begin construction next year and will be instrumental to providing our veterans with the services they need.
 Recently, I also secured $2.5 million to deliver first-time water services to more than 1,000 people in El Paso County. This is in addition to the nearly $1 million I secured for concrete lining in El Paso County to improve irrigation for farmers.
 In addition to my advocacy on behalf of veterans and our ag community, I also stand strong with Border Patrol, Customs, and our local law enforcement. That's why I help secure billions of dollars for border security, including critical funding for surveillance technology, Operation Stone Garden, and additional hiring at CBP.
 Finally, El Paso is home to a variety of incredible schools. In light of the horrific Uvalde shooting that occurred in my district last year, I've worked tirelessly to secure funding for improved school safety. That is why I voted yes on the bipartisan Safers Community Act last year, which resulted in billions of dollars for improved mental health services and security in our schools. Thank you.
 Although our nation is faced with many crises, I will continue working to deliver solutions for the El Paso community. If you ever need anything, please do not hesitate to reach out to me or my staff. Thank you. Hello, this is U.S. Congresswoman...
 The Congressman is proud to proclaim that the state of the district is strong. From Uvalde Strong to El Paso Strong, communities across our district have demonstrated remarkable resiliency in the face of adversity and tragedy. For that reason, as the Congressman mentioned, he was proud to support legislation such as the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which I will be elaborating on later in today's presentation. Before delving into the legislative updates, I would like to thank the members of the Uvalde District for their support.
 for the congressman I'd like to first brief the council on the new district boundaries and what that means for representation here in the city of El Paso and in El Paso County in the next slide is a map of the new is a map of the newly redrawn district that the congressman represents the map in the next slide
 uh... points to the representation that the congressman has here in el paso and across twenty nine counties in texas as you may know texas twenty three is a large congressional district in the state one of the largest in the country spanning nearly half the u s mexico border from el paso to eagle pass
 and up to San Antonio, including 112 unique municipalities, not all as friendly as this body here today, as well as eight international bridges, ports of entry, two national parks, 14 state parks and sites, as well as West Texas, Greater West Texas. And our El Paso District Office serves not just El Paso County, but also Hudspeth, Culberson, Reeves, Winkler, and even Loving County with its 57 people.
 In the next slide is a more detailed map of the district boundaries in El Paso. As you may see here, the congressman's footprint has increased in the city of El Paso. The congressman now represents over 60% of El Paso County, and we do stretch into city limits, as you see here, into the Upper Northeast as well as the Mission Valley.
 And as you may see on the right side of the slide is a more detailed description of the neighborhoods that the Congressman is proud to represent, both in the Mission Valley, including the Rio Bosque wetlands, as well as the northeast, where North Hills, Sandstone Ranch Estates, as well as Newman and the El Paso Electric Plant up north.
 near the New Mexico border. The Congressman is also proud to represent a large portion of Fort Bliss, including Biggs Army Airfield as well as the 3rd Infantry Division Artillery Headquarters. And of course, we represent the outlying suburbs of Socorro, San Elisario, Clint, Fabence, Tornillo, and a portion of Horizon City. And so this is just
 overview of the boundaries we have met with all the neighborhood associations active in our parts of the district we've met with the civic groups as well as our City Council members representing that portion of the district in the next slide is more detailed
 address information about our office locations. We are spread out across 29 counties. We have six district offices. The main office for the City of El Paso is our district office here. We recently relocated. We're now at Casa Ortiz, which is beautiful art gallery and historic Adobe Hacienda on the Mission Trail. Again reflecting the partnerships and the stewardship that we hope to show towards the community. The address is there as well as the mainline phone number.
 In the next slide is the committee assignments for the 118th Congress. The Congressman is proud to serve on two powerful committees. He's the only member from West Texas to serve on the House Appropriations Committee. The Congressman serves on three subcommittees. Of interest to the City of El Paso is, of course, military construction, veterans affairs, and related agencies, as well as transportation.
 The Congressman also serves on the House Homeland Security Committee, and there are several subcommittees of interest to the City of El Paso, including Border Security, as well as Counterterrorism, Law Enforcement, and Intelligence. As a matter of fact, the Congressman will be in town tomorrow hosting a roundtable for law enforcement to discuss public safety concerns, as well as funding requests that will be assessed through community project funding. In the next slide is...
 MORE DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING AS YOU HAD ALREADY HEARD FROM CONGRESSWOMAN ESCOBAR'S STAFF. I'LL KEEP IT BRIEF AS THE PROTOCOLS AND PROCEDURES ARE THE SAME ACROSS ALL CONGRESSIONAL OFFICES. THE CONGRESSMAN IS LIMITED TO AROUND 15 PROJECTS TO SELECT FOR COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING.
 We try to distribute funding in an equitable manner across 29 districts for geographic equity as well as demographic diversity. And so we are fortunate to have received several requests from the City of El Paso for community project funding, both in our district in the Mission Valley as well as in the Northeast.
 And the Congressman also encourages applicants, including the City of El Paso, to submit letters of support. We want to see that the community is behind the projects that the City is pitching for the Congressman to fund. We've met with the City's legislative liaison. We've met with the City's economic development director and team to discuss the projects that are top priorities for the City of El Paso.
 and we look forward to funding as many projects as possible here in El Paso. As you all may know, the Congressman delivered over $62 million just last year in community project funding across the district, so there's more than enough to go around. In the next slide is a detailed description of the Congressman's recent funding wins for El Paso.
 Fiscal year we funded a Riverside Canal concrete lining project in partnership with El Paso County Water Control Improvement District 1, the irrigation district. This was within city limits to line a one mile stretch of the Riverside Canal to promote sustainability and conservation for our farmers down in the Mission Valley.
 In addition, we funded Sandhills Wastewater Collection System. That is a colonia in the city's ETJ, and that is a colonia that was needing wastewater and sewer services. In the next slide is a recent announcement that the Congressman was proud to support, and that was $600,000 for the MPO's Safe Streets for All project, and this is a project
 that garnered support across not just the city of El Paso, but also our outlying municipalities to create a comprehensive plan and safety action plan to leverage technology and other solutions to reduce traffic fatalities, which I understand is a major issue, not just in El Paso, but across Texas.
 In the next slide is another recent announcement that actually we just announced this morning with Workforce Solutions Borderplex in the Northeast, a $1.5 million Department of Labor grant to support dislocated troops in El Paso to support service members who are transitioning back to civilian life and are seeking to receive proper training as well as find job placement that pays competitive wages here in El Paso. So, of course, keeping talent local in Fort Bliss and in the Northeast.
 In the next slide is a couple more detailed legislative updates. The congressman was proud to introduce the Reducing Excessive Vetting Authorities to Maintain Our Ports Act. Basically, it streamlines the repair process at our ports of entry, of which there are several in El Paso, and the congressman is proud to represent the Isleta Port of Entry and Tornillo Port of Entry
 Basically, it removes GSA from the equation when making or submitting for minor repairs at our ports to keep them up to standard. The second is, as the Congressman mentioned, through the National Defense Authorization Act for last year, he was able to secure critical funding for our military installations in Fort Bliss but also in San Antonio.
 And also not mentioned here is the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act. The Bipartisan Safer Communities Act is intended to keep our schools, our children, and our communities safe. Some of the main provisions are $250 million for community-based violence prevention programs,
 as well as establishing enhanced background checks, investing over $2 billion in mental health services for schools, and allocating $40 million to the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. We've been in constant communication with our superintendents, our law enforcement partners at El Paso Police Department, to encourage them to pursue this funding through competitive grant opportunities, as the funding will not be available forever. So in closing...
 I just want to reiterate the Congressman's desire to continue cultivating close relationships with the City of El Paso, as well as working in a bipartisan manner to secure legislative victories for the community. As a native El Pasoan, I look forward to serving you all, serving the community, making sure that we are a constant presence. So if you ever need us...
 feel free to reach out thank you thank you we do have one question representative uh mayor pro tem thank you hi rodrigo thank you so much for being here for the presentation i was wondering if you could tell me about the um event tomorrow that you mentioned
 Yes, so the Congressman will be convening a law enforcement roundtable at 1.30 p.m. The roundtable will be for our law enforcement partners, both in the city as well as Socorro, Clint, and our school district police forces. And we've extended invitation to the city as well. We look forward to seeing the city represented and hearing what the city's
 Specific funding requests are for law enforcement as again as we consider community project funding if you could just send me that location That'd be great. I would definitely love to stop by Thank You Mary Blue flame at 1 30. Yes Thank you so much and we'll see you tomorrow, thank you. Thank you sir for being here The next item that was moved to 10 o'clock is item 28 is
 And this is discussion in action on the FY24 community project funding request to be submitted for consideration through the House Appropriations Committee process. Good morning, Mayor and Council. It's me again. I'm going to bring Omar and Allie up with me. They're going to help me with this presentation. But as you've heard from Congresswoman Escobar and Congressman Gonzalez's office, community project funding is open and available. So we will be applying and we have a couple of projects that we want to go over with you all.
 So like I mentioned, we have Omar Martinez and Ali Gorski. They've been helping to write these applications that we will submit. I'm sorry, Lindsay. Mayor, Ms. Turner signed up for item 27 as well. Okay, Ms. Turner, sorry about that. I'm sorry, Lindsay. I'm gonna get your seat up front, Ms. Turner. Please do. I've always wanted one up there. I know, that's what I'm saying. I found out I could do more up there. It's been up there.
 Do I get to talk twice? No, you won't let me up there for that. I'd like to get the young man's attention. Mr. Strada? I need your attention. My name is Lisa Turner. I'm a disabled veteran. I'm also a transgender woman. So I would really like to know why his party is attacking active duty transgender individuals who are serving.
 with honor? Why is his party attacking veterans because they're transgender? Why is his party wanting to take children away from their parents? Why is his party wanting to take children away from active duty service members because they may be transgender? Why are they wanting to deny them medical necessary care?
 I mean, I am at, I attend a local VA. It is to say transphobic would be polite. The transphobia that's come from my VA over the last couple of decades has run veterans away. They go into Mexico for their medical treatment or they don't get treatment at all. So you tell your boss that this disabled army veteran wants an answer.
 and inform him that the actions of the Republican Party right now in all these red states amounts to genocide. Thank you. You've met the definitions. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Thank you, Mayor and Council. We appreciate your questions. Mr. Turner, thank you. We'll resume.
 Now we go to item 28, and this is discussion and action on the FY24 community project funding request to be submitted for consideration through the House Appropriations Committee process.
 Perfect. Thank you so much. Hello again. Excuse me. So as I was introducing, we have Omar Martinez and Ali Gorski who have helped me to come up with the projects that we will be submitting to the community project funding. Of course, this falls under Strategic Goal 6. So I'm going to start by handing it off to Omar. He's going to give a brief overview of some of the overall federal grant successes that we've had.
 Good morning Mayor, good morning Council. Omar Martinez, Grants and Strategic Initiatives Manager with the City of El Paso. Today we're going to talk to you briefly about the success of the Discretionary Grants Program by the City. And so in the last few years this program has secured $71.6 million for the City of El Paso.
 The projects are listed in the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions regarding any of them. A lot of these do come from the community project funding requests that were submitted in previous years through both the Office of Congresswoman Veronica Escobar. Now, with the congressman's new borders, we are submitting to his office as well.
 And so the Discretionary Grants Program is a very ambitious, more than $450 million plan to target as much federal funding as possible with the understanding that we have to be responsible with taxpayer dollars, meaning we want to get the best deals, the best cost share from the federal government and apply to priority projects for the city, projects that are aligned to the strategic plan.
 And so, as I mentioned, $71.6 million have been received. In the last two years, we're working with more than 20 partners, and we're also supporting other partners, such as the University of Texas at El Paso that apply for more than $160 million as well. And so, I'm happy to answer any questions regarding these different projects. We are currently working on 15 applications, and now with community project funding, we need to increase that to 23 applications in this federal fiscal year. And now I'll hand it over to Lindsay again.
 Thank you, Omar. Really quick, Omar, when are you submitting these? When is your deadline? The deadline to submit community project fundings is this Friday. Is this Friday? Well, I'd love to meet with you before that because I have some projects that I'd like to get submitted. I think every year we ask that we kind of be briefed and are allowed to submit some. That's yet to happen. So we'd love to sit down with you before Friday because I've got a few or maybe at least one I'd like to add in there. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Prokofian. Ms. Adams? Yes.
 Perfect. So in terms of being more specific with community project funding so the House Appropriations Committee as you all have heard has opened the program as of March 1st. So we are working to come up with the projects that we will submit on behalf of the city and we're going to be submitting to the Congresswoman Escobar and Congressman Gonzalez.
 So just a little recap of previous years funded in fiscal year 22 we received money for the Paso del Norte trail as well as money for the body worn cameras for the police department. And then more recently in fiscal year 23 we received 1.75 million for the solar covered parking garage at the El Paso International Airport.
 So you've heard this multiple times today, but the federal guidelines for the community project funding include making sure that the projects have community support, that the matching funding is available, and that it has to be obligated within the one year for fiscal year 2024. Of course, we're working to make sure that the projects are high quality and each congressperson can only submit 15 projects. So we're kind of competing with our own community in that aspect.
 But we're making sure that all the projects that we submit that we'll go over here in a little bit meet the eligible criteria. I know Congresswoman Escobar's presentation kind of showed those criteria. And then of course the funding and match requirement is going to be dependent on the committee that we submit the project to.
 so i'm going to pass it over to ali gorski she's been helping us to determine the projects that we're going to be selecting and she's been instrumental in help making sure that city staff goes to the selection criteria that the federal government requires but also that ties into what we want to see in those projects hi good morning mayor city council city manager my name is alejandra gorski i'm with economic development as lindsay mentioned i've been supporting as an analyst on this effort and i'm going to pass it over to you
 So, in addition to the federal criteria that you heard from our congressional partners, I just briefly wanted to note that in addition to this, we also implemented some criteria on behalf of the city.
 So among those that I'd like to just highlight for you, first we examined whether projects are tangible, so if they follow the sort of smart criteria. And just within those smart goals, thinking about the T, the time-bound piece, we really ensured that our projects that we are looking into could be implemented within a one-year time frame.
 And on top of that, we also worked with departments to consider or evaluate whether there is actually a match available, so we ensure that there are city funds that can accompany these efforts. And just lastly, importantly, we wanted to note that in addition to the federal criteria, we did incorporate whether the projects tied into our strategic plan. So if they tied into the components of any of our city's strategic goals was very important in our selection.
 So, with that in mind, I'll pass this along to Lindsay again and she can talk through the timeline for implementing or rather submitting all of this work.
 Thank you, Holly. So in terms of a timeline, it's a very short timeline. We received the call for request on March 1st. And then as Omar mentioned, the deadline to submit is the 17th, which is this Friday. So we are working to finalize the requests and the projects that we all go through right now. And like I mentioned, we are submitting to Veronica Escobar and Tony Gonzalez's office. So with that, I'm going to hand it back over to Omar. He's going to go through each of the projects that we will be submitting.
 Thank you. So we are submitting five projects, one in partnership, we're offering partnership to the El Paso Chamber, and then we're submitting one language request, and so I'll go over each of them briefly. The first project is the Isleta Port of Entry Feasibility Study. What this will do is it will give us the funds necessary to perform a conceptual design and cost estimates necessary to then, in future years, tap into construction dollars with U.S. Department of Transportation funds.
 The total project cost is $3 million, of which we're requesting $2.4 million from the federal government, matched by $600,000 from the Bridges P3 Fund.
 The second project is an airport terminal drive bridge replacement project. This is a $3.75 million project for which we're asking for $3 million from the federal government matched by $750,000 in local funds from the airport enterprise fund.
 The third project is the Sun Metro Transit Project. This is a resubmission from a project last year that was not selected. This is through Sun Metro. Total project cost is $900,000, of which $720,000 comes from the federal government. The funding source is the Sun Metro Capital Investment Account.
 and this is to provide additional transit-oriented solutions for people that cannot access your traditional transit routes, like your brios and metro and streetcar.
 The fourth project is the economic and international development business one-stop shop. This is a $1 million request submitting through HUD, and it comes with no match. It is just a stipulation of the program. Other programs do require a match, a non-federal cost share. And this is to do planning, design, and implementation work for the business one-stop shop or the BOSS program.
 Finally, the fifth project is a Northeast rail spur phase one. This is a $3.75 million project of which we're requesting $3 million from the federal government matched by 20%, and the funding source is the impact fund. These next two projects are a little bit different. The sixth project is a language request to the existing port infrastructure development program.
 large, billion-dollar level federal program from the U.S. Department of Transportation that funds major port of entry improvements. However, these are only maritime or river ports. What this means is that there is no specific funding source for our bridges, for our international bridges that are land-based.
 to be able to make those larger $200 million worth project funding requests. And so through the office of both Congressman Tony Gonzalez and Congressman Boric Escobar, we are requesting language changes to the program that would expand the program and allow us to apply and compete, therefore, favorably under this criteria.
 And the seventh project is a project being submitted by the El Paso Chamber of Commerce in partnership with the City of El Paso and the El Paso MPO. They are requesting funding to perform a regional master plan for all ports of entry in the region.
 And the city is not a fiscal participant of this project. However, we are willing participants. This project has already been vetted through the Bridges Department. And what we're requesting is a statement to allow them to submit a statement of support on behalf of the city. At this point, I'm happy to answer any questions regarding any of the projects. Representative Molinari.
 Thank you, Mayor. Sir, gentlemen, I think it's number five, the Stan Roberts. Are we talking the entire length of Stan Roberts or we're talking just a certain portion of Stan Roberts? This is a certain portion of the Stan Roberts zone.
 and what i have to go back and check the exact length and the reason for it is because the rail spur is involved and so we have right-of-way issues and design issues so i'll have to check to see how much it's going to be it should be a little bit more than one mile however it would it is a phased project this entire northeast rail spur so this road would get us much further ahead in developing that uh their project
 No, Omar is absolutely right. So it would be the mile that connects between Elizabeth Triggs with Economic and International Development. So it would be the portion of Stan Roberts that would run parallel to the rail spur coming off of US 54. So just approximately one mile. Yes, sir. Thank you. By the way, Mr. Trigg, I did recognize you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? And that will be it. Thank you very much for the presentation. Thank you.
 DIRECTOR MACKINSON A couple more slides if you all don't mind. DIRECTOR MACKINSON Sir I'm here. Mayor I do have a question. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Oh yes ma'am. DIRECTOR DEWOLF I'm sorry I didn't text you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF I didn't get to you fast enough. DIRECTOR DEWOLF No go ahead. DIRECTOR MACKINSON Thank you. Omar and Mrs. Triggs so related to the process you said the deadline was this Friday so today's vote is only going to be for these five items or seven proposals rather. DIRECTOR DEWOLF It's going to be for the seven proposals. Yes ma'am.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. And in terms of the matching requirements you'll and I'm sorry if I missed this and you're repeating it. Are you all you already have the designated funds for the local match within the respective departments. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- That is correct. They have been vetted and approved by the departments.
 So will this approval also secure the local match required dollars? Yes, it'll be a commitment. Well, it'll be a statement from council saying that should be awarded this funding. Then we will come back to you once just letting you know that this funding was awarded. And then at that point, the funds would be appropriated.
 In the event we actually are awarded and we see the funds, you have the approval, at least the initial approvals to do the local match, but then if we're awarded, you'll come back for a formal approval? Is that what you're saying? Yes, ma'am. So like we do with many grants, we bring them to council, ask for your okay to submit our application if they require a match.
 highlight what we think that match will be where it will come from and then if the grant is awarded we return to Council with an actual agreement to accept the award and then also to formally allocate from Council the match the funding match source
 So it will come back to you all if awarded. Okay. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Well, I appreciate that. I also wanted to give my sincere thanks for getting ahead of this, being prepared with proposals. I know it was a very short period of time, but with that –
 advance notice and planning that you all do behind the scenes puts us in a better position to apply for these funds. So I didn't want to leave without thanking your team for being prepared and for bringing these much needed projects to help offset the property tax burden to El Paso and so thank you very much and for the you know all of the collaboration with our congresswoman and congressman and these needs for our community. So good job everyone. Thanks. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you.
 Thank you. So just very briefly, our next step, of course, is today to obtain support from you all to submit these projects, and then we will be sure to submit them by the deadline of this Friday. And then we will be sure to come back to you with the final list once we submit, and then, of course, if they are awarded, we'll come back to present that as well.
 This is the requested action very simple just to direct the city manager to submit the eligible projects that we went over Because they are in line with our strategic plan and do have that matching fund available Thank you, man Might also like to take the time right now to congratulate y'all This is a great presentation and for the projects as you bring forward to us. That's very very nice Then and the fact that you all have the funding in place Like I said, I'll probably be
 Following you even more closely for that, but I thank you so much for that The presentation was great from all you and your staff appreciate that and with that I'll make a motion to approve sir That's fine. Yes mayor. There was a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by mayor pro Tim And ello and this is to approve the eligible projects Presented by staff on that motion call for the vote Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you representative Salcido. I
 Aye. Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you Ms. Adams and thank you. We have anything pre-11? No sir. Okay good. There is a request to go to item 25 next is that correct? Yes ma'am. Item 25 is presentation and discussion by Emergence Health Network of their 2022 annual report on activities collaborations and partnerships with local entities.
 Hi, good morning. First, thank you so much for pulling this a little earlier on the agenda. Christy Daugherty, I'm the CEO for Emergence Health Network, and we are really happy to share with you today our 2022 annual report.
 With, there was so many amazing things that happened in the past year, it's hard to just narrow it down to a few, but I think we did a good job of doing that. So the next slide just really highlights the community impact and the difference that we make here in El Paso for the folks that we serve. Am I changing, okay, thank you. I don't know, am I changing the slide? Oh, okay.
 I've heard you as many times as you've been here. You know, but normally I don't have a presentation. I'm usually just called up on the spot for something. Just kidding. I apologize. So let's see. I think we wanted to just highlight a couple of partnerships.
 First of all, we are very happy that we launched a project with our Veterans One Stop Center in partnership with Fort Bliss. So we've actually been very active with our active duty members, which is relatively new. And so we're very happy to announce that we've been able to work on post, especially with troops returning back to El Paso, to really help them understand the resources that they have in the community that they can access off post.
 Next, we were very happy to be part of the roundtable discussion with Senator John Cornyn. He was very interested in our CIT programs. And one of the highlights that I'd like to make, we have our wonderful CIT program with the city, with the county, but we've launched school-based CIT as well. So now we're in both EPISD and CanTOISD with their law enforcement partners.
 And segueing into our partnerships with the school districts, we are now providing services on campus in five EPISD schools as well as Canuteo ISD. We are on campus and we have little mini clinics on campus providing services to those kids. And so the five schools for EPISD, we also serve the feeder schools.
 So really it's about access and we want to make sure that families have access to services. So typically the school is much more convenient for the family than taking them across town to a clinic.
 We're really excited about our podcast, vodcast initiative that we launched this year. It's called Mindful of Your Health. So any of your podcast services, we are on there. We'd be happy for you to download and listen. We have various topics that we talked about with regards to being mindful of your health, looking at self-care, substance use treatment, things like that. So it's a very interesting listen.
 Next, another highlight is we were very happy to host the Army Surgeon General Scott Dingell. He actually visited our veterans one-stop center and was very impressed with how we collaborate with our veterans services as well as our active duty members. So we were really honored to have him at one of our sites.
 I was very honored to receive the Women of Impact Award this year along with five of my distinguished colleagues in the community. So something I'm very honored to represent El Paso for. Our MST program, which is our multi systemic therapy program, which serves youth that are at risk of out-of-home placement. We actually received a national award for our intensive in-home therapy, which is
 Again, really what we're trying to do is work with those kids that could potentially be placed out of El Paso. So we're keeping them in the home and working with the family. And so we were very honored that our program received an Excellence Award.
 Next up, we were very happy to host a back-to-school TV special. It did air right before school started. You know, there was a lot of anxiety, kids going back after being, you know, doing school at home. So we really wanted to help get in front of some of those issues with anxiety and work with our school districts to make sure that the resources were available.
 Next, I kind of jumped ahead, but we did launch school-based CIT. I can tell you that's one of, we're one of the only school-based CIT, I know we're the only one in the state right now. And so really what that is is it's a way to help the school district police forces
 respond to any sort of psychiatric emergency. It does not have to be just a student. It can also be a parent that may be on campus or a teacher that may be struggling with something that day. So it's a little different. Rather than having the clinician in the car like we do with our El Paso Police Department, we have a team of clinicians that are designated to the school-based program and they are called out by that law enforcement whenever they need help.
 Next was another great partnership with the city. We had a mental health superhero event at the El Paso Zoo, and we did that during Children's Mental Health Acceptance Day, a wonderful event. We were able to bring a lot of children into the zoo, have some fun events, and we actually are planning that again for this year.
 We were also awarded a recertification for joint commission. So the joint commission is an accreditation body that accredits mostly hospitals, but we are an outpatient program that's accredited. So what they focus on is patient safety and infection control. So we're very happy to say that back in July we were recertified for three more years as a joint commission accredited program.
 Next up, another partnership with the city that we're happy to be part of is our 988. So the 988 rolled out in the fall, which is an easy number for folks to remember when they're having a psychiatric crisis or they're needing support. Well, just recently we brought forth to the council that we are now co-located in the 911 center. So it makes a lot of sense to be able to support each other because if a call comes into 988 that really needs...
 emergency response, then we can patch over to 911 and vice versa. If a call comes into 911 that really is a psychiatric emergency or something we can handle without sending out the fire department and EMS, we'll be able to do that and do it very quickly. So we're happy to have that partnership.
 We were very happy to be awarded. This was our very first Hog Foundation award, and we were able to fund a fellow in partnership with NAMI. So we do have a policy fellow that works for EHN that also does advocacy work for NAMI. And again, this is the first time that we were able to, El Paso was able to receive something along this line.
 Next up, our annual report is actually a digital report, so you can get on our website and take a look at it. We always like to share some of our events and numbers. One of the really cool things we were able to do this year is we were focusing on...
 how our employees make a difference in the community. We really went along the lines of this is us working for you. So if you attended any UTEP football or basketball games, you're able to see some of our advertising. We want to make sure everybody knows where their services are. We had billboards throughout the community showing where we provide different services in different areas. We do also have, let's see, the next one is a very great, a wonderful partnership we have with UTEP Athletics.
 So we are the mental health provider for UTEP athletics. If they are in need, we help those athletes out because think about a student coming from another country or even far east United States coming to El Paso, they may be 17, 18 years old, there may be some issues that they need to address. So we do that. But what they did in return for us is they were part of a campaign.
 about getting help and so we had football utep football players soccer players some of the tennis team just out there really doing psas for us and so those are on our website as well for anybody to use when young people see an athlete a collegiate level athlete talking about their mental well-being it makes a huge impact so we were proud of that partnership and that partnership can is also continuing we had a lot of presence on social media through our vodcast
 And so you can get on our website and see those vodcast videos. We have different presentations from different folks talking about different areas of our services. Okay.
 And then lastly, sorry, we always try to put out our numbers and this is really small, I realize that, but if you get on our website you can look at it where it looks at the demographics based on different services as well, and we break it down by age and ethnicity. So you can see the impact that your local mental health authority has in the community. Next we have our total revenues and our total expenditures.
 So, as you see, your local mental health authority is very financially stable. We're very solid. We are in a good fiscal position. I can tell you going into our next fiscal year or ending this fiscal year, we'll end as well as in a good fiscal position. And we are very healthy with our cash reserves. And that's something I'm very proud of is we're running about 140 days cash on hand at any given time.
 And so that really makes a difference if something was to happen and we needed those emergency funds that were set for about 140 days.
 And that is all I have for today. I went through it very quickly. Again, get on the website. Look, it's a very interactive. There are videos. We have a commercial that was airing if you saw that for a little bit. But we really make our annual report interactive. We don't want it to be a print glossy, you know, thing that you just toss kind of to the side. Anytime you need information, it's really easy to access there on our website. So I'd be happy to take questions.
 Thank you for the presentation.
 we see that your work's always been very important, but just now it's just become that much more important to be proactive and involved in the schools and with the kids. So I do thank you for that because, like I said, it's always been a very important job you've had and the job you've all done within our community. But your partnerships, as we got to see a minute ago with City, County and Law Enforcement and UTEP, but I
 I think the important part in my opinion is that involvement with the schools and with the youth. So I thank you for that. We do have representative Hernandez followed by Mayor Potem. Hi, good morning. I just I don't have a question but more of to share some feedback on a personal level. I do have a child that utilize the services that Emergence Health Network.
 And I wanted to share with you that your team and the counselors and therapists and doctors, you all have first class, really wonderful, wonderful customer service, very understanding and caring staff. That has made my life incredibly just more hopeful because, you know, having a child.
 that has challenges, it just becomes very isolating and scary as a mother to try to provide those services. So, EHN has certainly been a lifeline for my family and I wanted to give you that feedback because
 You all really do deserve a great amount of congratulations and support from this community. I really enjoy the partnerships that you have with the school districts as the mayor said earlier. We we really need to have that template across all school districts. I have four children in the Useless School District
 And that partnership is not available there. So I would encourage that MOU to have those medical professionals in the school when crises are happening. It would be a lifeline and support for educators who, unfortunately, after the pandemic have had to become counselors in their own way in their classroom.
 And so there's so many disparities and injustices as it relates to mental health, but you all are making a significant difference. And I wanted to share with you that it's helped my child significantly. And for that, I'm very grateful for your services. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Mayor Pro Tem. Yeah, I just wanted to say thank you all so much. I think it's.
 you know, because she's always really great at getting up and showing the work that EHN does, but even as a board member of EHN, I'm always really amazed at how ahead of the game the staff is, right? We talked about school-based mental health. The staff came out and have been working on that on their own for,
 years now, right? And it's just coming to fruition. And that's really, I think, reflective of a team who cares about the community, who understands the issues, and really see where they can insert themselves to make us a better community. And so I really want to recognize Christy for the work that she does, but also the environment she creates and the support she has for her staff and for the city. I mean, there are many times I'll call I mean, Christy called me the other day and was like, I heard you're working on this thing. I have this information. And I'm like, okay, great. Very helpful.
 um and so again they're just a very dedicated uh organization the individuals that work in the staff are very very dedicated and there's really an environment there of lifting up each other and this community and so i just wanted to say thank you thank you thank you thank you mayor i also want to thank you for that as well uh i work uh with the uh with the with the body the uh hn there oh
 regarding the CIT which represented Manila championed on that and since then having worked with them and Looking listening to all the everything that's been implemented to make that program that much better I understand the incidents are down and people are getting there getting treated and
 As they should and such as you know having to be taken down to the work down to the medical facilities get their beds and and Everything's just turned out for the best As far as that's concerning and I wanted to thank you for that That's a great program and I hope it continues well beyond our our years here. Thank you Thank you, sir. And I do want to thank representative Piero for putting this item on the agenda
 as I know that you know and you see the importance of the partnership. So, Representative Piero, thank you for putting that on the agenda. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, thank you for having me over at your office last week. I am someone who's, I thought, very aware of all the programs you have.
 You've exceeded even the ones that I knew, and I was incredibly blown away by – and this makes sense given the amount of work that you all do in the community, but by how large of an organization you are in terms of the personnel and how many dedicated people you have serving our community. How much staff is it that you have there? We are about a 750-member team right now.
 Right, so that's 750 people dedicated to helping El Pasoans and everyone else from the region with mental health and various other health concerns, behavioral health and beyond. So I think there are probably a lot of other people in the community, too, who don't realize how large of an organization you are, how many different aspects of health that you have your hands in,
 And, you know, you should be getting the recognition from everybody for the important work you do. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you again. Appreciate the presentation. And thank you. I need to thank the council, mayor, you know, all of the, you know, city manager's office, the police department. We could not be as successful as we are without the partnerships we have in this community. I can tell you that I have colleagues across the state of Texas that don't have.
 the support and the partnerships, and so we would not be successful without you, so thank you so much, and I'm just a lucky one that gets to steer the ship. I have 750 amazing people that work for us every day, and they're out there making sure people are safe. Thank you. Have a great day. Thanks. Thank you. Mayor, we have public comment from Ms. Turner. Ms. Turner? Morning or afternoon? Morning. It's still morning. Morning. Not for long. My question is, is there anything that...
 that we can do or you can do to provide like a 24 hour 24 hour a day place for a woman who may have been suffered domestic violence or sexual assault especially if they're active duty to go to because somebody in uniform is not somebody they're going to want to deal with so is there any way
 that can exist because everything seems to close at 5 o'clock and if something happens to you at 7 where do you go
 Thank you for that question. So we actually do have an extended observation unit that would take someone that was in a psychiatric crisis. However, Center Against Family Violence has shelters and has places for domestic violence for that particular example to go to. And we work closely with them. The whole goal of CIT was to soften that approach. And I think we've done a very good job
 of softening the approach to where it's not the command presence of a law enforcement officer, but you have a more therapeutic approach to things. So I do believe we're doing that. We do have 24 hour units that are available. We have the one that we have on Montana, that again, it is more of a psychiatric crisis. And then we have community partners that do provide shelter care for folks that are victims of domestic violence. So those are available. Thank you for that. And again, thank you, Ms. Prine.
 Yes, Mayor. Can we recess until noon? There's a motion to recess. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting until noon. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1138 a.m. and will reconvene at noon for a call to the public. Motion to reconvene? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1204 p.m.
 It is now time for call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful
 to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda.
 This afternoon we have 13 members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Albert Rivera. His topic is sound decibel limits. Albert Rivera. Andrew Torres. Mr. Torres' topic is anaerobic digesters, organic food waste converted to biofuels for El Paso. Good afternoon, Mr. Torres. You'll have three minutes, and IT will need the Elmo, please. Good afternoon, sir. Council and Mayor, as well as the city manager.
 IT is going to be bringing it displaying it on the screen. So I'm a seventh grade English teacher with Harmony Science Academy and essentially we had to read a passage that was part of their test as well as one of their assignments in my class about a machine called an anaerobic digester. So what is an anaerobic digester you may ask. Very very common question for this subject.
 An anaerobic digester is essentially a machine that acts as a stomach, does. So it's basically a machine stomach. As we all know, when we eat food, we release methane. You all know how methane is released from the human body. Now, methane is one of the driving factors of the climate crisis. So an anaerobic digester is actually a way to answer this problem.
 And the reason why is because it's a machine that actually captures this methane and uses it to create either biofuel or to generate electricity for the grid. So currently in Europe, there are over 30,000 of these machines. In the U.S., there are approximately 3,000 to 10,000 of these machines. And I'm hoping that El Paso can add one more to the list. Thank you.
 Currently, the city of El Paso has a measure in place to try to eliminate food waste. We donate it to a charity, and that is done by local organizations and a nonprofit here in El Paso. But what about the food that is not edible and is not able to be eaten anymore? It's basically thrown away and ends up in the landfill.
 So the driving question for us was how do we get one of these machines here in El Paso? Because all of my students were able to fully understand how this machine works. And they asked me, sir, you know, why don't we have one here in El Paso? So I looked it up and the closest one that we have in Texas that I saw is a new one that's being built right now in Houston.
 And you can see that one of these machines is going to divert approximately 300,000 tons of waste, of organic waste from non-sustainable outlets, providing companies in the region who wish to make their operations more environmentally friendly, a sustainable choice by using biofuels to either fuel their cars or to power their businesses.
 So the business that we read about in Europe is called the Sainsbury's Grocery Store, and they actually power their grocery store entirely off of the waste from the grocery store, which is revolutionary. So essentially, this is the land.
 And this is where we're trying to stop food from going. So I hope that my seventh grade class inspires you all. And hopefully with one of these funds that I read about, we can fund this through something like this. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is poor decisions by city council regarding animal services. Good afternoon, Mr. Como. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. Go ahead, Mr. Como. You have three minutes, sir.
 Good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon. As usual, I'm here because of the situation in the city of El Paso. We discussed some numbers at the last meeting. One of the ones I didn't get to put out was we live intake 9,400 less strays in 2022 compared to 2019. We killed 707 more. So I'm a little curious to how we could still be at 80% live release rate when those numbers just don't add up.
 Somebody's do some somebody's got to you know, actually do some real math. We have a problem The other thing is we know that you all signed a contract with best friends best friends Uses the Haas program the Haas program is what we've been on since 2020 Contrary to our city manager our director and all the people at animal services I firmly believe they kissed the Blarney stone before they come up here and talk to you all but in
 They're not telling you the truth. The HOSS program was implanted and has been implanted since 2020. Now, just so we understand, I've heard questions about whether Best Friends is using the HOSS program. I sent a message to Best Friends. For more information on how to help big dogs and other homeless pets, visit HOSS website and Best Friends Network proven strategies.
 They're running the Haas program. We've had three years of the Haas program. That's what put us in this situation. We don't need another year. I mean, I get it. We need somebody to run the shelter that can actually run it. Obviously, you think that Terry can't run the shelter either because now you've hired somebody to take over the shelter.
 So I think we agree that we need somebody competent to run the shelter. We need to eliminate Best Friends, get them out of our city, out of our shelter. Do you know that Best Friends is going around the state of Texas and trying to implement their way of doing business and saying, look at what we did for El Paso, it's such a great success? I've had 15 phone calls in the last four days going, we thought your shelter sucked. Pardon my French. It's like, yeah, it does.
 let me give you stats so we're and an Oscar you know I don't open my mouth unless I can prove what I'm telling you it's a lot different than what we're hearing from the shelter it's a lot different than what we heard from our city manager he went to best friends conference after three months of Haas in our shelter read an Austin pets alive script about how great Haas was in El Paso he sold the program to best friends
 And it was all done so that Paula Powell could get a high-paying job with best friends and not work here anymore. It's time to get a new shelter, which we already knew in 2015 was too small. We need competent people to run it. We need best friends out of our shelter today. Thank you, Mr. Comer. You've reached the three-minute limit. The next speaker is Barbara Valencia. Ms. Valencia's topic is the whole picture, no kill versus hauls. Good afternoon, Ms. Valencia.
 You have three minutes, ma'am. I will pass out the handouts, ma'am, in the future. These are due the day before the meeting. Please. That was yesterday, right? Did you give me yesterday? No, you're on the right. Go ahead, Ms. Valencia. I am Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. The whole picture, no kill versus HAWS. For the contract with the city and Best Friends, Best Friends program is the one being implemented, HAWS, because Best Friends and HAWS are one and the same.
 To calculate live release rate each month in the simplest form, you take the number of outcomes for the month and you divide it by the number of intakes for the month. But what about animal services as a whole? Let's look at the whole picture.
 On that first page of that handout, this is the percentage of total outcomes for the animals at the shelter each month. In 2019, under the no-kill plan, more than 50% of the animals in the shelter left monthly. When HAWS was implemented in 2020, we started to see the shift of lower animals leaving. And in 2022, two years into HAWS, we see only about 25% of the animals are leaving each month.
 The second page, that is your 2019 versus your 2022 comparison of the percentage of animals remaining in our shelter system each month. The third page, that's our average intake on a daily basis for each month. In 2019, more animals are coming into the shelter versus 2022. We have more animals coming in, more animals going out, fewer animals being warehoused at the shelter and thus saving more lives in 2019.
 In 2022, even though we had less animals coming in, we left more strays on the streets, less animals leaving the shelter, and more animals being warehoused at the shelter, resulting in less lives being saved. So what does all this mean? With HAWS, less animals leaving the shelter, resulting in more animals being warehoused at the shelter every month. Severe overcrowding, rapid spread of disease, and filthy living conditions for the animals at the shelter.
 Staff are overwhelmed resulting in mental and physical stress and a high employee turnover And the shelter has dizziness out from local rescues because the local rescues are the biggest detractors of pause and with good reason With the no kill plan the shelter and rescues work collaboratively more animals even the shelter so more lives saved wasteful taxpayer expenditures are reduced and shelter standing the community improves because animals at the shelter are healthy and happier and
 With the No-Kill Plan, the goal for the shelter is to commit to saving more lives while striving for no-kill. With HAWS, the shelter is operating to just obtain the no-kill benchmark at the expense of the animals and their lives. In closing, when Best Friend says save them all, I guess that means save only the 25% that are leaving out the front door. The other 75% don't matter.
 Can you tell her she doesn't matter? Where'd she go? Tell her she doesn't matter, because Animal Services did exactly that. They said, she doesn't matter, leave her on the street to fend for herself. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Elena Perez. Her topic is also Animal Services. Elena Perez will be followed by Nevea Martinez, Randolph Rivera, also speaking on Animal Services. Good afternoon, Ms. Perez. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. My name is Elena Perez. I'm an independent dog rescuer for five years in El Paso. I have sat back and watched the stray and loose dog situation deteriorate, and enough is enough. I rescue dog after dog, puppies as well. Every dog that I rescue gets great vet care. Some have parvo, some have broken bones, some die because they are beyond help. I send...
 all of your stray dogs on transports out of El Paso that myself and my husband drive across country. All that I do comes out of our pockets along with some donations. Animal services came to my home yesterday for the seventh time. I allowed them inside so they could see firsthand how clean my home and kennels are. The officer also agreed.
 He and his Pets Alive representative left with nothing to say. I am tired of being harassed. I hit my breaking point yesterday. Your animal services is failing not only the dogs of El Paso, but those of us who continue to rescue out of the goodness of our hearts. I am here to tell you that something has to give, and it starts with all of you. I know I have some time left on. That's all that I wrote, but, you know, I put everything on the back burner for these animals. I sacrifice everything.
 everything that I have, my family, and it's not my job to pick up these strays. Animal Services, the city, is leaving healthy, unaltered strays on the street, and they are reproducing more rapidly than we can handle. There's only a handful of us. We need help. Something needs to be done. I never come to City Council, but...
 I am at a point where I am tired of coming out of pocket to help these dogs. It is sickening to see these dogs hit by cars, run over, dying of sickness on the street. It is so sad. We cannot keep up. I need help. We need help. This city needs to come together and do something. What more? I'm up here shaking. I'm up here shaking.
 I have dogs that came in the other day dying of parvo. Six puppies dumped in a dumpster. I went out immediately to get them. Four hours later, declining. Out of six, only four made it. You know, they need somebody to speak for them. I'm here speaking for them. They are, they're helpless. I understand that they're animals, but they also have feelings. Please help us help them. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Nevaeh Martinez.
 Followed by Randolph Rivera, Arnulfo Hernandez, Nevaeh Martinez. Topic is also animal services. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hi. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and City Council. My name is Nevaeh Martinez. I am 14 years old, and my mother is Elena Perez, who you just heard from. As an upcoming member of society in El Paso, please allow me to share my personal views and experiences with you in regards to loose and straight life.
 and stray dog situation in my city, and El Paso is my city. I grew up loving animals. I always have supported my mother in her rescue efforts. Sometimes she has been gone for hours setting traps, sometimes takes dogs to the vet, and sometimes more often than not hearing my mom cry because puppies that she rescued did not make it due to parvoe.
 Our family unit has always been a very strong unit, but honestly, we too are at our breaking point. There is absolutely no support from our elected officials. Instead, my mother is being constantly harassed by her animal control officers. I am not understanding why nothing is changing. Allow me to quote, change hurts.
 It makes people insecure, confused, and angry. People want things to be the same as they've always been because it makes life easier. But if you're a leader, you cannot let your city hang on by the past. By Richard Marksinko. Thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. The next speaker is Randolph Rivera. Mr. Rivera, star six, please to unmute your telephone. Randolph Rivera.
 He will also be speaking on animal services. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. My name is Randolph Rivera. I'm a proud rescuer with the Paso community. And I just want to discuss an issue that we've been having going on as an independent rescue along my wife that yesterday we had.
 animal control officer come to our house on what I call is a bogus call at all. I mean, it was basically for a smell, an odor that was emitting from our house, which when they came, that wasn't the case. And I mean, those times, those animal control officers could be going to a call to help an animal. Every time they waste a moment to come harass another rescuer,
 is a time that they can go out there and help another animal or help another individual. It's sad to see that the resources from this city have been misused and misguided the way that that coming to our house to check a welfare check holds higher priority than an animal that is in need and of their time and their services that they could be providing.
 Another thing to talk about as well, too, is that we need to work hand in hand with animal services. It's very sad to see on social media that when you see people calling out for help.
 saying, I need help with this dog. I found this dog. This dog's abandoned. This dog is sick. Everybody deters them from the city services. Don't call 311. Don't call animal services. They direct everyone to the El Paso rescuers. That's including my wife, myself, Karen Washington, and Loretta Hyde, Diane Avery.
 And it's just one of those things that we all need to come together and stop, find out the priorities as far as what is considered to be helping the community with the straits. Is it coming to my house to do a welfare check or is the animal out there suffering more important? You tell me. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Arnulfo Hernandez.
 And Mr. Arnulfo Hernandez signed up with a topic, how did we get here? So today I asked him for clarification on his topic and he said it's related to the present city council composition. Good afternoon, Mr. Hernandez, you have three minutes. IT will meet the Elmo, please. Can we put this up here? Buenas tardes, mi persona. Buenas tardes. Thank you, Madam Clerk. That was a very good question that you asked and I'll answer it for you with a little bit of history.
 It may explain, perhaps, why the meetings have been so contentious within the last few months. By saying here, you mean the apartheid-like El Paso city government, where a small few older white rich and super rich men ruled over the 80% plus Mexican Americans in El Paso until the elections of 2022. These folks ruled like the white minority...
 in Pretoria, South Africa, under the apartheid formal government over the overwhelming black African majority. The little history. 1959 to 1961, Ray Montez became the first Mexican-American mayor of El Paso in the last century, in the 1900s. The pictures of the mayors in the back wall where we are in is a reminder of that. In the book, The Making of a Mexican-American Mayor,
 Mayor Raymond Tayes takes the credit for changing the election of the mayor and city representatives to a nonpartisan basis, not Democrat, not Republicans. The rulers had read the writing on the wall. They concluded we can't beat these Mexicans, there's too many of them, but we can elect a few of us and buy a few of them to take control of City Hall. They did until November 2022. The rule ended with the election of...
 OF 2022 MAYOR LEISER BECOMING MAYOR REPRESENTATIVE KENNEDY KENNEDY FIERRO AND CANALES HAD THE ODACITY TO OPPOSE THE RULERS HANDPICK LESSER QUALIFIED CANDIDATES AND THEY WON IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A CLEAN SWEEP HAD FORMER STATE REPRESENTATIVE JOE PICKETT NOT PULLED OUT OF DISTRICT FIVE RIGHT BEFORE THE ELECTIONS DON'T BE DISTRACTED
 by the former mayor and the former first lady publishing a dog whistle letter calling for the recall of Representatives Kennedy and Fierro. They were followed by an appearance of the same mayor on ABC Channel 7 News Extra, bootstrapping his dog whistle argument to say my phone has been ringing off the hook calling for the recall of Fierro and Mr. Kennedy. Well, Mayor Leaser, my phone has been ringing off the hook.
 opposition to that recall I call upon souls who is the science who is the host and producer or news extra to invite mayor former mayor at warning Veronica Escobar of justicia fronteriza and dr. max Grossman the next speaker is Lisa Turner miss Turner's topic
 Is U.S. Code 18, Section 1091 related to genocide? Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes. I apologize. I have to change what I want to say because I do need to take up from my city council. The gentleman said we've been contentious. He doesn't know what contentious is. He should have been here when we were dealing with the same-sex health benefits for city employees. Now, that was a knock-down, drag-out fight. I loved every moment of it.
 Do we have an issue here of the money people getting what they want, getting the money from the Treasury and enriching themselves? Yes. But city council made that decision, and it's a decision that we have to live with. Today's city council can make changes to that. I mean, if you're going to give tax dollars away, how about making sure that they donate $2 for every dollar in benefits they get,
 back in cash to nonprofit organizations within the city. In other words, we get something for it. Because what happens is when we give the property tax abatements, they'll have it for like 10 years. And then 10 years down the road, the property that was new is now no longer new. And by the time they get through the challenges on the values of the property, it is basically garbage and we get no money back.
 So we lose all the time, and it's time that we start getting some of our money back. I mean, recently we gave a company who wanted to come here for our bilingual speakers. We paid them for that. You shouldn't have to have paid them for that. They came here because everybody here is bilingual. It's an asset we have, so why should we have to give them property tax or sales tax abatements?
 They came here for that. Let them, you know, spend their money. And the other thing is, especially with the hotels, you built a hotel, you put your money in, you never had any tax abatements, sale tax abatements, somebody else comes in and they get in all this. It's unfair competition in my eyes. If it's just the first one, the initial one, that's fine. But you get new ones coming in, they're getting these benefits. The others who never got the benefits get,
 are at a disadvantage. So an equal playing field is all I would like to have, and I'd like to see less money going out and more money coming in to our general fund. Thank you. The next speaker is Chris Arellano. Chris Arellano, his topic is police reform. Good afternoon, Mr. Arellano, you have three minutes. Thank you, good afternoon, everybody. I'm just gonna make this quick for everybody.
 hello my name is chris ariano and i run a consulting firm here in el paso the reason for me speaking today is because i want to present an idea to the mayor and the board on a new approach to police reform this approach won't only help the city's backlog problem but it will also give the police department the opportunity to be more in the field and have more time to get getting things done like training and uh continuing to serve our community with efficiency
 Being a former Marine and a part of my background working with Border Patrol and ICE has helped me realize the need for a new approach to current issues our city faces. Now this idea is a bipartisan approach and even though here in El Paso we don't deal with Republicans and Democrats bumping heads as much as in other cities, this approach can be implemented all across the state and the nation with El Paso being the leading city in this new approach to police reform.
 I know I don't have a lot of time, so I figured I'd just leave my business card with whoever. Hopefully talk to everybody soon. That's it. Thank you. The next speaker is Municipal Court Judge Steve Fisher. Topic is Traffic Deaths and a Solution. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Thanks. First, I don't know if anybody ever does this, but I want to thank you for that appointment two years ago. And I don't know if people come back and ever thank you guys. And I'd like to leave with some improvements. We have a serious problem with traffic accidents and deaths and people driving without a license.
 Last year, there were 17,250 citations for no tickets, no driver's license. Even in a COVID year with not enough police and not enough, you know, not that many people on the road. There's been 100,000 accidents in the last five years. And in the last year, 2,393 were accidents that are considered serious over $1,000 with people with no license.
 So I go to this jail court, you know, and I've done it about 100 times because I'm the go-to guy when someone else can't make it. And we get maybe 20 people a day. A lot of them have tickets that are years old. Well, I spoke to, you know, Chris is one of his groups.
 It's better almost not to have a license or insurance because what happens is they get all these tickets, they have $5,000 or $10,000 or more in fines and court costs, and they throw them away. Because it costs $100 a day to house them, most of the judges just let them go the next morning, so they come back and do it again.
 What's worse is if you look at these cases, if somebody's not going to pay their tickets and they know they're going to toss them, they also have the worst speeding, 90 miles an hour, 100 miles an hour. I see it every time I go to court. And I do have a solution. But first, one problem is revenue. We could be getting revenue from these people, and we'd probably throw away, what, $10,000 a day, 363 days a year?
 Two is the seriousness of it. People who know they're not going to pay their tickets or go to court, why shouldn't they just throw them away? Then five years later, they'll be caught, spend the night. I make good money. Don't let this job fool you. It's for the IRS, so they think I'm poor. But if I had $10,000 worth of tickets, I'd turn myself in at one, get out at seven, and maybe find some new clients while I'm in there.
 The other thing is for the police. I've talked to a lot of police officers. My son-in-law is a detective. It's really demoralizing to go and give these tickets when we're understaffed and response time is low, to know that 45.6% are not going to appear.
 So it's really a serious problem. I've been looking at different ordinances. I've vetted this with police, with the head of courts in San Antonio, Fred Garcia, who's also an attorney, and with the Texas Justice Association. And I'd like to see an ordinance where most places, and this constitutional issues, most places after three years
 they'll get impounded. I'll pass those laid back. Thank you, you've reached the three minute limit. Thank you, Judge Fisher. I'd like to present that sometime, Mr. Freer. Thank you, sir. Thanks. The final speaker is Jose Barriga. Topic is respect for each other. Good afternoon, Mr. Barriga, you have three minutes. Hey there, good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon, welcome back, sir. Thank you. We all know that we are currently living in times of uncertainty. Two weeks ago, we had a lot of heat created in these chambers, it was really intense.
 However, there are so many things that they are affecting, not just this city, it's affecting the whole country. So you got banks that they're closing. You got crimes with the juveniles. But here, right now, elected officials for not to be physically present here in these chambers, I see it as a disruptive behavior. City council gathered here in these chambers twice a month for approximately six to eight hours per day
 of those days in an executive session if they are not present, how do I know if somebody else is not there listening and advising? I think to me that's questionable character. Usually you don't see me here. It had come out here because I see something is irregular or something that bothers me. Impatient, the resistance of work, collaborative, in collaboration are ways to disrespecting me as well. I know just to me, it's easy to the whole society, to the whole community itself.
 There are so many problems that have increased. You got individuals that are crossing the border, legally, illegally, don't matter what. The mayor has seen me. I have been on the streets. They have taken so many photos that when the president came, nobody saw those photos. The most disgusting and the most disrespectful photos that I ever take that nobody has seen them yet. But that's the respect. Unfortunately, that's a social development issue that has to be addressed one way or another.
 But the problem is that this disrespectful that in these chambers occurs, it causes the staff to resign, it creates an unhealthy and hostile environment. It causes them to abandon their professions, for them to harm the customers with these constituents.
 You got individuals, you got potential companies that are probably trying to come here, but they see that there is a lot of drama here, they're probably going to change their mind. You got individuals that are probably going to have medical errors. They're going to compromise patients safely. The other thing that you have, you have to consider what happened in Palestine.
 not too long ago. You have a train that pass through here, and you got all this area that trying to be developed. Consider that. Practice. You got potential chemical hazard. Talk to the military. You got a good relationship right now. I appreciate it. Do that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you, and thank you, everyone, for being here. The next 10 o'clock item was item 30.
 Why don't we have to take 30 first? I thought it was before 2. You missed one before 10? Yeah. There were several items at 10 o'clock. I know. I moved EHM before this item, so she's been waiting. Item 30 is a management update on the Office of Climate and Sustainability. All is forgiven. What was that, sir? I think you were saying congratulations. That's because I'm multi-talented, sir. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Nicole Farini, Climate and Sustainability Officer. I am absolutely overjoyed to be in front of you today to talk about an issue that has been very important, I think, not only in our community, but I'm going to say to me personally, in my entire professional career. I don't know that you all know this, but for 12 years before I...
 CHOSE TO BECOME A PUBLIC SERVANT. I WAS A PRACTICING ARCHITECT IN THIS COMMUNITY AND AN ADVOCATE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT. SO IT PLEASES ME NO END TO BE STANDING HERE IN FRONT OF YOU WITH THIS TITLE. I SEE THE PRESENTATION HERE. THANK YOU, I.T. AND I WILL DRIVE. SO I WANT TO SAY FIRST THAT IN NOVEMBER OF 2022, EL PASO VOTERS APPROVED PROPOSITION C AS PART OF THE COMMUNITY PROGRESS BOND. $5 MILLION SO THAT THIS COMMUNITY COULD MOVE FORWARD
 towards results-driven climate action. Proposition C indicated that we were charged with doing two things. Number one, creating El Paso's very first formal climate action plan. Now I'm gonna talk later in this presentation about a variety of plans and work and achievements that have been really pressed forward with great vigor over the last 20 years.
 all leading up to this formalized plan. And I'm going to tell you why El Paso's plan is going to be different from any other plan in the nation. The second mandate out of the voter-approved bond in November was that we invest in immediate action, demonstrating results that do things like increase the shade canopy across this community, addressing some of the issues of urban heat, having more open space, more discussion about why that open space and green space is important in our community.
 We've spent a lot of time talking about how we can enhance our role as the Sun City and invest in things like renewable energy and energy efficiency. But we also need to recognize what it means to be in the desert environment and taking a look at the natural resources that are so incredibly limited, things like water. So our mandate from the voters in November was to do those things. In order to do that, we established the Office of Climate and Sustainability formally.
 This office and my role will be the vehicle to execute the will of the voters from November and the vision of a sustainable future for all El Paso and El Pasoans. So how do we do that? There's three objectives here. These are the first three objectives that we've established for the Office of Climate and Sustainability.
 Number one, we have to address the specific impacts of the global climate crisis, but not as they relate to any other place on Earth, but as they relate to the urban desert environment and the vulnerable populations of the Chihuahuan Desert region. You'll notice that I say Chihuahuan Desert region because climate action is not something that respects jurisdictional boundaries. Air is air, water is water. The decisions that we make as a region
 as an ecosystem, make a difference. And so as we embark on climate action planning, this office will be driving that work as it relates specifically to our environment.
 Our second objective will be to ensure that communication is consistent, transparent, and collaborative with all interested stakeholders. That means being inclusive, inclusive of all the dissenting voices, all of the voices that disagree with each other. Our role as the city has always been, and frankly, coming from where I come from in community and human development as the chief resilience officer, that's what we do.
 We bring together those differing opinions and we advance this community for the better. We intend to do that as a core objective of the office, resulting in tangible action, tangible results, things that we can touch, taste, feel, and understand and experience as a community. But we will be also looking at appropriate public accountability for those actions and for our progress to address the global climate crisis.
 Finally, objective three is that we will be pursuing a wide range of both policy vehicles and funding resources. This is really, really important to understand. Climate action, yes, is about investing dollars. And yes, as a mandate from November, we have these $5 million to begin that work.
 But at the end of the day, we really have to be collaborating with other public institutions, the community, the state, the federal government, so that we can create policy, pursue policy vehicles that can create a sustainability of that work. We hope to establish our community as a leader in addressing the global climate crisis while balancing things like affordability, addressing equity, social justice, and vulnerability.
 for the community of El Paso and that means everyone. As I mentioned earlier, this work is not just starting. We have spent a little bit of time, I'm gonna go ahead and say the last two decades, advancing efforts that address climate change and reduce the city of El Paso's. That's very important, the difference between the organization and the community as a whole. We have done a lot of work reducing the city of El Paso's carbon footprint. And again, that dates back more than two decades.
 I want to point out something very specific. The first thing on this timeline is the Green Building Ordinance, and I just want to share a personal story with you all. When the Green Building Ordinance was being drafted, a group of community stakeholders, advocates, was at the table, and they invited a certain young redhead to sit at the table and draft that Green Building Ordinance.
 My red lines as a community advocate were on that ordinance. I was so proud the day the city council adopted that because that was a true community effort. That was a great beginning for this community, and it has produced results over the course of the last 20 years in terms of how our buildings operate, how they are more efficient in terms of energy, water, et cetera. But that was only the beginning. We also produced a livable city sustainability plan, which in many ways could be considered El Paso's first pre-climate action plan
 We then proceeded with a number of other plans, like Plan El Paso, which, if you take a look at that, really emphasizes all of the actions that we're going to be talking about in the next several years. A lot of that is embedded in Plan El Paso. We need to go back and not forget the precedents that we've established and the community-driven effort that was that comprehensive plan, followed by the resilience strategy. Now, resilience took a little bit of a broader lens, right?
 but it was very much based in addressing climate vulnerability. But we also reached out to make sure that we were addressing the social issues that really created disparity in who is impacted by climate change.
 There's also a number of things that you see to the right of the slide that have been accomplished and really in partnership with the community that you may not identify as climate action. The regional housing plan is one of those things. In 2019, we released El Paso's first regional housing plan. That was in collaboration with a number of other public entities. Why was that climate action? Why, Nicole, is this on this timeline today? The regional housing plan is on that timeline because we started to look at what? Creating housing affordability.
 and building new affordable housing in the urban core of our community in five priority areas that really reduced the footprint of housing in our community in terms of materials built, in terms of reusing existing building stock. These are all climate action initiatives. We also looked at prioritizing housing developments that are oriented around transit. We call them transit-oriented developments, also climate action.
 My point is that there are many things that the city of El Paso does on a regular basis that just because it doesn't have the word climate on it doesn't mean it's not an initiative that advances that work. In 2020, as the COVID crisis was descending upon all of us and we were all focused on how do we continue during this emergency, we continued to look at different things that could advance social justice and climate action during that time.
 The entire city workforce, well, the majority of the city workforce, went hybrid during COVID-19. Now, I'm not going to say we intended that as climate action, but that certainly was. And we have now learned how to work more remotely, how to reduce our footprint, how to transport ourselves less often. That is climate action. Also in 2020, at the height of the pandemic, we activated volunteers across this entire city. And we had volunteers map urban heat across the community of El Paso.
 We didn't do that alone. We did that with community. We now understand how and where heat is impacting our community more severely. And I'll tell you, it's primarily in vulnerable populations, vulnerable neighborhoods.
 In 2021, we released the Regional Renewable Energy Advisory Council Strategic Plan. Again, not a plan that was driven by staff, rather a plan that we guided the members of the council-appointed REAC to build their own vision of what renewable energy could be and should be and should deliver for this community. That was released in 2021, and we have been working on it ever since.
 In spring of 2021, we reached out and partnered with Congresswoman Escobar's Climate Crisis Advisory Committee. I will say that the city of El Paso and our team took an extremely active role. We had representatives on every single one of the task force work teams for that committee, and we're very excited to see the fruit of that labor. I believe the Congresswoman mentioned it this morning in terms of how she has been advancing climate action at the federal level. We have been with her every step of the way.
 We created a municipal energy cross-functional team that brought together stakeholders from across this organization to really brainstorm and create action around how do we use less energy within our city facilities? How do we do better in operating our city facilities? That took a whole lot of city staff, primarily across the departments that manage our facilities. Thank you.
 In fall of 2021, we did a number of facility energy audits. One of the things that folks struggle to understand is that you can't set goals until you know where you are. And so doing those facility energy audits and understanding which facilities were using more energy, which facilities were using less, where did we need to focus our very limited resources? Those energy audits occurred in fall of 2021, and we have taken action since then in knowing where we should invest.
 In early 2022, we launched El Paso's first solar energy co-op. It was known as the Solarize Campaign. We did that in partnership with the community. The Solarize Campaign basically brings together and makes more accessible solar energy installation for a group of community members that sign up for that, that opt into that program. And that program is still ongoing.
 Sun Metro received a grant to electrify our lift vehicles. This is one step in a very long journey to take a look at, again, how do we reduce our footprint? How do we invest across the board and not just in our buildings but also in our fleet? Another item that you may not immediately identify as climate action, but it truly is, is the fantastic work done by our Economic Development Department, led by Elizabeth Triggs.
 launching the Innovation Factory not that long ago. The Innovation Factory is about advancing
 New technologies, innovative technologies that are ready to go. Renewable energy is a part of that. And not just renewable energy, but clean energy, clean water tech. These are the kinds of technologies that we need to invest in so that we can build opportunity for our community while we're addressing climate action. And our economic development team has shown leadership in that space. And I'm excited to see what comes out of the innovation factory. And that brings me to where I started.
 The voters in 2022 approved Community Progress Bond Proposition C, and early this year, I believe it was the end of January, I can't believe it's already March, I was named as the new Climate and Sustainability Officer. How are we going to do this? This has to be a Community Climate Action Plan. I mentioned that two things that came out of the bond is that we have to start this work, we have to create a plan, and we have to demonstrate how it's going to work.
 Well, the first thing that we need to do is make sure we understand what our community's expectations are in this space. This plan is not only climate action, but it is an adaptation plan centered on equity and community vulnerability. It is not a mistake that your resilience officer is now working as climate officer.
 We understand vulnerabilities, we understand environmental justice, and we understand vulnerability, and we will be utilizing that to provide this roadmap forward towards climate action and sustainability for our community. We'll be hiring a consultant that will develop this community-wide climate action plan
 Again, community-centered. It will focus on local climate change impacts. We will be developing greenhouse gas inventories. We will be providing climate strategies that are equitable and consider the most vulnerable. But we're also going to be looking at best practices from across the country so that we can implement the plan in a way that works for us. We will be defining strategies for use by city government in concert with the consultant.
 The plan should be a unique reflection of the community of El Paso. So while we will be looking at other communities and those best practices, we will also be adapting that to make sure that it makes sense for our community. And I'm going to get out there and say that what I have observed in other climate action plans for other cities, particularly in Texas, is they set very audacious goals. And if you read those plans, there is no roadmap to achieve those goals.
 We feel that it's important to understand where we are, where we're going, and frankly, how to get there, because we are accountable to the public for achieving that. What is a climate action plan? This is extremely important. A climate action plan has four critical components. It's a community-wide inventory of emissions. Where are we today? What are our emissions today? What is our carbon footprint today? What is our energy use today? What is our renewable energy uptake today? That's how you set goals.
 It has to have a resilience and adaptation focus, meaning that many of the impacts of global climate change are already occurring. It is getting hotter. Water resources are getting scarcer. We are experiencing flooding. We're not going to change those things overnight, so our plan has to include how do we adapt as a community to those things that are already happening. We need to prioritize that mitigation and adaptation and take action.
 We also need to be looking at funding mechanisms and implementation pathway. That fourth piece is what other climate action plans typically don't have. They have the goals. They don't have the path. We will.
 This is the scope of work that we're going to be looking at, putting out to solicit a consultant with an RFP process. I'm allowed to talk about that today because we have not started that process. This is the beginning. We are conducting extensive community outreach so that we can understand what the community's expectations of this plan are so that we can embed that.
 in the requirements for our consultant. I would say that today I definitely seek you all's feedback on this scope of work, and I want to understand what your expectations are out of the Climate Action Plan. We'll be beginning with community engagement once we bring the consultants on board. We'll be doing a climate perceptions assessment. What does our community think is important
 And what are the existing community assets? And that's not just the city of El Paso assets. Frankly, that's going to be the actions, the assets, the resources from all of our community partners and our public partners, school districts, county, state, federal. What assets do we have at our disposal to try to address these issues? Getting out there and laying the groundwork is where you start.
 You then do a local impact assessment, which means looking specifically at the urban desert environment, vulnerable populations, and the potential economic shifts that could occur as a result of investment in climate action. This is really important because when you take a scientific approach to work like this, you start to understand what all the impacts are across the board, both good and bad.
 And then you weigh your decisions based on that information. So until we have that information, it really becomes impossible for us to move forward. So this is step two with the consultants. Three is a baseline data capture. Where are we today? I've said this a number of times already in this presentation. Where are we today in terms of energy generation, water resources, air quality? We have to know where we are to know where we're going. We cannot approach this work with a blindfold.
 The next step is to assess climate risks and vulnerabilities. This occurs at a number of different scales. The neighborhood scale, which I think for a lot of El Pasoans is the most important. This is how does climate action and climate change affect you in your household? What can you do and what effects will you be feeling as this continues to occur? We will be looking at the commercial sector. What are the impacts in the commercial sector? Again, looking at those economic shifts of the actions that we take.
 How is the public sector going to be affected? What kind of policy do we need to advocate for at a variety of levels? Through all of that, we have to prioritize equity. So when you establish risk and vulnerability, these are the areas that you look at.
 Finally, so you see, not till step five do we actually get to the strategies. This is very important and I walk you all through this because you don't start before you have all of the basic information at your disposal. This is how science works and this is how we will be approaching this work. The climate strategies will be in the areas of adaptation, as I mentioned, mitigation, trying to mitigate the effects of what is already happening,
 We will be looking at equity as a major driver. We need to make sure that whatever actions we put in place, whatever initiatives we invest in, that those initiatives are resilient to change. Because as we have experienced in the last five or eight years, is that we cannot anticipate everything. COVID-19, everyone. Thank you.
 So we have to be resilient to changes that we cannot anticipate, and ultimately the work and the investment has to be sustainable. Not from an environmental perspective necessarily, that's almost inherent, but it has to be sustainable. We have to be able to continue to do this over a period of time. We have to have the resources to be able to do it, and we need to make sure that everyone goes in eyes wide open about what that means.
 Finally, you get to the implementation plan, and this is the piece, as I mentioned, that's missing in most climate action plans. Not only will we be asking for long-term implementation plans that take us over the next 10, 20, 30, 40 years, but we will be asking this consultant to identify along the way projects that can be executed before 2030. How do we align and amplify projects that we've already identified as part of our 30 by 2030 plan?
 And how do we leverage federal support that's on the table right now, as the congresswoman mentioned this morning, to get work done? Not 18 months from now, but now. That will be part of the scope of work for this consultant. What is the proposed timeline? Well, community outreach has already begun. Since the day of my appointment, I have been meeting with many different community members of different opinions. We have put up several...
 tools for folks to engage with. One of them is a community Jamboard, where we're just taking comments about what is on your mind when you're talking about climate action. I'm trying to understand where the community is.
 What is some of the initial feedback from that outreach? What I will tell you is why do they think climate action is important? Well, I think all of our community sees that our essential resources are being depleted, and they're being impacted by that, whether it's cost or environmental conditions, whatever it is. Our community is concerned about our resources and how we're managing them. Why is the work important or relevant to them?
 Because it's about environmental justice, equity, and ensuring climate justice as we move forward. These are the words that are coming out of our community right now, and we need to be responsive to that.
 another question we're asking is what are the barriers well there's definitely economic barriers to be able to address this work but there are barriers that we can knock down if we if we approach it together and that's the whole idea of this community outreach you'll notice that we're doing community outreach before we advertise for a consultant so that when the consultant comes on board we're prepared to tell them what our community expects we'll be advertising for that consultant right around may of 2023
 We'll be conducting an information session later that month. There will be a submission deadline, June of 2023. So this summer, we will be receiving those proposals from consultants. We'll be evaluating those proposals in July, and we will be awarding a contract likely towards the end of July. That means that we'll do a planning kickoff later this fall with the first interim report from our consultants in those first steps of the process that I mentioned being due in fall of 2023.
 i'm sorry fall 2023 that's not right spring of 2024 so we will be kicking off in fall of 2023 my apologies and then coming back to you all very swiftly in spring to say this is where we are this is what we found these are some of the initial actions we can take the second interim report will come later in 2024 towards the fall and the final report in the call to action we are targeting we would love to see the beginning of earth month 2025.
 Please notice that a climate action plan does not take a few months. A climate action plan takes almost 18 months to complete. If we are to do this right, if we are to use science and data, and we are to include the community, it takes 18 months. What are our next steps? More outreach and engagement. Engaging with stakeholders so that we understand the high-level vision and mission for the work. Thank you.
 We will be looking at engaging that best-in-class consulting team. I will personally be attending a number of conferences in the next month or two before we advertise so that I can make sure that the best-in-class consultants that have done this globally are aware that we are seeking that service and that they will be competing for that.
 We want to leverage our Communities of Excellence partnerships in addressing this. Again, if we don't have everybody at the table, we're not going to be able to execute this work. And we have a fantastic foundation that we have built over the course of the last two years with Communities of Excellence.
 Both of these plans that we'll be working on, and I say both because it's climate action and disaster mitigation, we intend to be refreshed annually and revisited every three years. I wanna emphasize this because there's this, seems to be a notion that you should redo a plan every year. That's actually not the case. The work takes longer than that. And so, yes, you should refresh it annually. Yes, we should be accountable to the public and say this is where we are with the goals we set, but you don't rewrite it every year, you rewrite it every three years.
 And then ultimately, in those next steps, is to develop those tactical and measurable actions that work in tandem to the strategy, those immediate pieces. We wanna minimize redundancies across departments and partners. We wanna make sure that we're not working at cross-purpose, that all of our partners are working together and that we're communicating and that we're not functioning in silos. That wastes resources and it minimizes impact and that's not what we wanna do.
 Finally, again, I can't say it enough, we will equitably be supporting the most vulnerable frontline communities that are often under-resourced for these kinds of efforts. So you will see us leaning into those communities as a priority. This last slide is more than a list of accomplishments. This last slide speaks to a number of things that have been done in recent memory that have advanced our climate action work. I started it with the timeline. I want to close it with this list of results, this list of achievements for you.
 More than a list of achievements, this slide indicates that climate action and impact does not happen in a single department. So please don't think that the Office of Climate and Sustainability is going to solve the global climate crisis and call it a day. That's not how that happens. This slide indicates that it takes every single department in this organization. This is not even an exhaustive list.
 This says we need everybody at the table. I need 27 departments all pulling in the same direction as guided by you and the community. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. Again, thank you very much for the presentation and also what you do. I know you wear a lot of hats, and you do a great job, and I appreciate the team you surround yourself with because I always enjoy working with you and your team. So thank you again for that. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Representative Canales, followed by Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thank you Mayor. Nicole I wanted to say congratulations to you publicly and I already said congratulations to you privately but this is an excellent evolution of the work that you've been doing as we've seen on the timeline for for years and years here at the city and thank you also to the city manager and Mr. Gonzalez and the leadership team for recognizing the importance of this to the council previous City Council for placing Proposition C on the on the ballot
 which has made this all possible. And, you know, I'm very grateful for the privilege to be elected to represent District 8 here on the City Council. But in my great plan for my life, I might have been doing your job, and I'm a little bit jealous that you're the one who gets to approach this now.
 I think this is a great roadmap for how we develop this plan over the next 18 months. And I look forward to, you know, I'm someone who comes from a background of sustainability consulting and green sector consulting. And so I look forward to helping in whatever way I can and maybe involving myself more than you'll want me to be around.
 I think the focus here on community involvement is very important.
 This is something, you know, the funds that are backing up this plan are things that were voted on by the public, right? That's right. And these are bond funds that people want accountability for, and they want to be able to be involved in this process. And so very glad to see that the outreach has already started and will continue throughout the 18-month process.
 whatever help that my office can give you in getting the word out, getting folks to participate, we'd be happy to offer that because that portion of this is so important. Again, I think the first few slides are really important in showing all the work that's already been done. I think...
 Every once in a while there are times when I think that, you know, I think back to all the things that have happened and the story isn't always told as cleanly as this, as when you can lay it out sequentially and see all the big impact items that we've gone through in the past. So thank you for putting this together. I think this will be an excellent tool to show people all the work we've done and an excellent way to benchmark all the things we're going to do.
 Thank you again, Nicole. I will just tell you, Representative Canales, that we will absolutely be taking you up on your offer to help engage the community because definitely a lot of vulnerability across the entire city, but we definitely see some very specific kinds of vulnerability in District 8, and so we'll absolutely want to work with you to identify what District 8 constituents also want to see in their neighborhoods.
 All right. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. And I think what Representative Canales said, I think it's important to realize that it's a learning experience for us. So it's really good to have someone with a great game plan and really a vision. So we do thank you for that because, like I said, for all of us, it's a big learning experience. So thank you for the guidance. Thank you, sir. Representative Mayor Pro Tem, followed by Representative Molinar.
 Thanks, Nicole. Congratulations again. Excited to be starting this conversation. So I have some pretty general questions at first. So I'm looking at your timeline, and that is for the actual sustainability plan. And wanting to understand, because we've got a lot of slides with a lot of outcomes and a lot of ideas, kind of what exactly we're wanting that contract or the organization to do for us in that plan. I'm assuming it's like more of slide four, right?
 Correct. So if I go to slide seven, the scope of work, this is really a high-level view of what we're going to be asking those consultants to do. And so if I go to the timeline, when we advertise, all of that information, all of those requests will go into the RFP. So we're going to be specifically asking for those deliverables. And it's part of why I asked the council today and, of course, following today, to
 Give me some feedback here. If there are things here that are missing, we need to know it right now so that as we engage our consulting team, they are aware of what that looks like and what deliverables we expect from them. Great, yeah. I mean, I don't think there's anything missing, but I do think that there is some work that we as a council and some policies that we could be bringing alongside this RFP that I would like to work on you with to get some policies in place prior to this RFP or this contract being awarded. Okay. Yeah.
 Oh, okay. So I was like, we're going to – I was looking at these slides wrong and thought you were not going to finish the RFP until –
 April 2025 but that's how long the company has to contract but I still think that there's a lot of work that we need to be doing alongside of the work that they're doing and especially you know their first interim report let's have some policy recommendations from them as well and so some things that I want to focus on today is just really water policies right I know you've heard me talk many times about the redlining communities and how they live in concrete jungles
 what are our street and landscaping policies for those previously redlined communities, and how are we helping their air quality, which includes water in the way of, like, irrigation, you know, looking at conservation policies that are similar to Tucson. I know this council, well, previous council, reversed kind of our water for the city. You know, we're using more water now than we were in 2017. We need to...
 go back, right? We need to be looking at the whole city and how we're conserving water and how we're using that with irrigation. Which, you know, let's look at things that we're so behind on as a community when it comes to composting.
 don't have composting. Most cities are now turning their composting into free programs because people are taking such advantage of them and we don't even have that. But another thing also when it comes to water is working with the water utility on the impact fees. I know Representative Hernandez brought that up yesterday to John Ballew and I think it's really important that we as a council when we're talking about climate change, we're
 We're talking about things like water conservation are looking at very large policies and how they're impacting the everyday citizen and impacting the outcomes of this initiative. Those are some policies that I'd like to look at with you. I don't think we need another company to do that, but I think it's good to work alongside them with those policies. I don't want to
 say that i don't agree with this rfp and i think it's bad no i think it's great but i think we on the policy level can be working to coincide with the success of this program um and so yeah those are some of the things that i wanted to talk to you when it comes to water conservation you give me a couple days i'll probably have like 20 more but those right now i think water is a huge issue yeah yeah we're slated to run out in the near future um and so we need to not be you
 watering more than we were before. What are we planting? How are we as a city addressing that? I'm disappointed in myself because I did vote to support letting the city of El Paso water more. That's a mistake I made and I do think we need to be looking at that as a larger picture in this community. Just a couple of comments on that. Happy to work on policy. Happy to hear 20 more ideas. Happy to hear 200 more ideas. Keep them coming. I think that
 in terms of the water piece and really this extends to whether it's water air whatever I think that what we have lacked in our community is a really solid scientific understanding of where we are I hear a lot of anecdotes I've been guilty of using them myself on occasion I think that we need to back away from that if we're going to invest in a long-term plan we need to do it based on real data that can be validated and I think I want to be able to come to you and say
 This is how many days we have left of water. I bet you John Ballew can probably tell us that but I feel like you know Those are those that's information. We need to have that. We don't necessarily have widespread And so that's part of the effort and I'm really pleased to hear you talk through that Thank You mayor Nicole, thank you very much for your presentations and congratulations on your new position Thank you. You're gonna do
 great work. You started part of the presentation right now when you mentioned the Chihuahuan desert, and I was nodding my head. I don't know if you saw that or not, because we live in the desert. We are very unique in this aspect here of El Paso. Of course, south of us, Chihuahua, north of us, New Mexico, different things like that. So we need to identify that. It's a very different type of
 place in the world and we have unique needs we have unique challenges so i'm very grateful that you mentioned that that you are one desert and so we heard earlier from public comment gentleman mr andrew daughters wake up sir anyways you're still there i'm just kidding anyways um is there going to be any um
 collaboration with the school so this gentleman's a seventh grade science teacher and he's got his students engaged already and that's wonderful news sir just to let you know congratulations to your class and your all your students there your principal and so i'd like to see not only just
 middle school, but high school, perhaps the University of Texas at El Paso, just the different universities coming together and say, hey, what can we do? There's new things, new work, new challenges, new opportunities that we can probably tackle some of this all together. So I'd like to see something like that as well.
 100% sir so I just want you to know that I very politely accosted Mr. Torres as he left the podium earlier introduced myself and I saw that we're definitely in the same page about exactly you know I feel like one of the things that is really beautiful about the fact that I've been with community and human development for six years
 is that we live in that engagement space. We live in that community dialogue space, Center for Civic Empowerment. We didn't build it by accident. And so that's where this work starts is with the youth, with our seniors, with our advocates, with our business community, with all of those folks that have been part of that Communities of Excellence narrative for so long.
 we absolutely are going to reach out and I think I hope that UTEP is ready to get their students involved as well because we need that brain power at the table. Yes and I'm sure they're listening so that's always a good thing. I'd also like to divert a little bit for example here on the I-10 so towards the end of the day so you have a lot of southbound traffic.
 And so, you know, there's been on the news recently, hey, what's happening, what's not happening, how it's happening, and that impacts us as well. So TxDOT is working on that, so hopefully we can get something taken care of that. And so to help spread your word, I also invite you and anyone else from your office to be one of our guest speakers at our community meetings, do part of that public engagement, and so that we can help spread the word. And once again, just like Representative Canales mentioned, is that...
 My office, the District 4 office, is ready to stand up and help you and all your team. So thank you. You've got it, sir. You've got that scheduled. Which one of the twins is that? That is the Abraham twin. The Christian twin is not here. I know. Thank you. Side joke, everyone. Representative Mayor Pro Temp.
 Sorry, I wanted to add some more things that went through my head. Also, in collaboration, I was looking at low-impact development. Yes. Right? It's definitely something, those ordinances that we need to be looking at and those cross-collaboration with departments, as well as our Open Space Master Plan. Right? That kind of hasn't been updated since 2010, maybe. Yep. And how we're engaging that committee and those groups and looking at that. Yeah.
 Yeah, I would just say to that that I already have staff working on kind of an inventory of all of the different plans that have been done in the last 20 years and you'd be surprised how many there are but not just inventorying them but sort of looking at, you know, what can we pull out of that what's already been done what what do we really need to revisit. So we'll definitely be doing that as part of the initial work. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you. And thank you again for the presentation. And, you know, I'm looking forward to learning. I think this will be a big learning experience. But anything we can do, let us know. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mayor, I made a request to speak as well. Hi, Mayor. This is Cassandra. Oh, go ahead, ma'am. I'm sorry. No, that's okay. Hi.
 DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Thank you for your presentation Ms. Fiorini. I'm really excited about the work that we have to do and the approach that the city has taken. Certainly I appreciate the community cent — centered approach.
 Um, and so you've asked for some feedback. And so some of the things just listening to this conversation just made me realize that the work is going to go beyond just putting together a plan. Um, I do believe the culture of the city, um, our staff, along with all of our ordinances and departments really need to buy in to make this successful for our future.
 And so things that I wanted to mention because it predates your time in that role, in the specific role as the sustainability officer.
 Climate and sustainability officer, excuse me, is that it was last year members of council brought forward an initiative for sustainable development goals. And so I would ask if that can be incorporated, if that has not been looked at already. We also in the past have had conversations about the street drainage and the stormwater drainage policies, design manuals.
 I think it certainly needs to be rethinked, given the amount of rain that we've had just in the past couple years. We had last year that had two 500-year flood rainfalls in my district, and it was really catastrophic, the type of rainfalls.
 work that happened there and then all of the work just was wiped out by rain so i'm very concerned about our policies not being adaptive to the climate impacts of extreme weather events happening in our city um also looking at um
 Our planning department, we have subdivision codes. We have, you know, how our neighborhoods are are designed, you know, everything within our development ordinances. I, you know, I truly believe needs to be re looked at. I'm not sure that that's part of.
 you know, of the, you know, discussion points of the stakeholders, but rather some of the strategies and how we get there. So I do believe that we have tremendous opportunity with changing some of those standards that are equitable. But I do have a question related to the process. You mentioned, you know, you're going to have equity in mind. It's going to be community centered. And, you know, quite frankly, I have a lot of constituents here.
 and a lot of folks who've reached out, very concerned about this discussion of climate change, sustainability plan. What does that mean? How can we communicate that in a way that doesn't scare, specifically businesses who think that they're going to lose business as a result,
 of any changes from climate action. And you know, the unknown and there's every time there's unknowns or uncertainty, it comes with a lot of fear. And so I would just ask, how would you how could we approach, you know, our business sector, utilities and constituents who have concern about the notion that there's no such thing as climate change, although we have seen those impacts in Texas pretty significantly?
 So I love that question, and I think that the simple answer is that you approach the work with no one that is at the table is right or wrong. It's not right or wrong, black and white. That's not how this works. And I would go as far as to say you don't even have to –
 sort of subscribe to what you may have heard about climate change globally. You may not personally subscribe to that, but I think what we present and how we bring people together is around what is undeniable, the fact that you've made investments in your district
 and those investments get washed away because we've seen this level of flooding. So we don't necessarily need to talk about this always in the context of the global crisis. What we can talk about with people, with human beings, and with business is what have you seen? And I think that, again, I just go back to the strength of what community and human development has built and why that supports this work so much is that that's the space we live in
 We live in this space where we put people in a room that vehemently disagree with each other.
 and we try to find the common goal. What are we all after? Well, we're all after a healthy and environmentally healthy future for our community. Now, we can disagree about why change is happening. We can disagree about a lot of things, but I think we need to find those things that we can agree on and move forward. I also will go back to what I was mentioning to Mayor Portemonello, is that we need to have data, and we need to have facts. I think we are past time, and it's irresponsible to utilize anecdotes
 We really need to have the information so that we are working transparently with folks based on science. And so that's the approach we're going to take. I don't anticipate it will be an easy road, and it's also why we need to make sure right here at the onset that everybody knows what we're doing.
 They know where we're going and that you all are with us and that our community is with us as we make some pretty tough decisions. And that's why it takes as long as it takes. But we are ready to do that. We're anxious to have that community, excuse me, conversation with all sectors of the community. You notice our scope of work is written
 So that we mandate that our consultants address all of those sectors and the impacts to all of those sectors. So that we can have that conversation in as data-driven a way as possible.
 So, Council, I'd just like to add that if you remember in last year's budget, which is our current budget, the Council put dollars aside for climate action and the work to be done there. It made a lot of sense to hire Nicole Farini and promote her into this position because of the work she had done with community development, but also the resiliency work that was done prior to that.
 So having worked with her all these years and the work that she's doing, we really felt like a cross-functional team could really back up the efforts that she's going to be doing and also highlight and underscore all the work that's been done up to this point. So I think as you can tell, she gave a very comprehensive report of the things that we have done and things we have planned to do. So it was a very prudent move.
 to set those dollars aside in the budget, and I think she's going to do an admirable job in her new position. She's reporting to Dion Mack through the quality of life portfolio because it makes a lot of sense to continue that quality of life through the climate action efforts that we've been undertaking over these last several years and where we're going to be taking it to new levels.
 Thank you. Thank you again. Thank you. And just to finish my my thoughts, Mrs. Furini, I do I want to congratulate you. You're you're such the perfect fit for this role. And as we're having these conversations about our sustainability plans, I really do believe that we when you're looking at baselines and data is what the cost is today for not taking any action. I don't believe that
 We can't afford not to do something. We are seeing dollars being hemorrhaged away and literally washed away where we have had to put significant amount of investment back into our roadways, into our drainage systems.
 And so the cost to the taxpayer is clear to me. Climate action is very real in the city and across the state. We are experiencing extreme weather conditions every single day, and those impacts are costing taxpayer dollars today. And so we need to have that plan our best foot forward. And so I'm very proud of the presentation that you've demonstrated today. I think we're on the right track.
 And so I hope you'll consider some of those suggestions I've considered and demonstrated today. Thank you, Mrs. Farini. Thank you, Representative. Keep them coming. Mr. Pryor. Yes, Mayor. The last item that was moved to the forefront is item number 24. This is on page number 9.
 item 24 is discussion in action to establish a defined process with formal input from members of council and the mayor for the selection of both an interim city manager and ultimately a permanent city manager this item was submitted by representatives canales and not this and Rivera canales thank you Mary yeah I think there's a clear public interest here in making sure that we have a process going forward and when we have
 time right we've now appointed a very capable interim city manager who can begin after the the tenure of mr. Gonzalez and carry us forward into the time that we need in order to have a good robust process for hiring a permanent replacement for the city manager position I do have a few questions
 specifically related to contracts and compensation that I think would be appropriate to ask in executive in executive session since they're a personnel matter and and so I'd like to move to retire to executive session that'd be pursuant to section 551 point zero seven one consultation with attorney and section 551 point zero seven four personnel matters yes sir
 There's a motion and a second to return to executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Chapter D, to discuss Item Number 24, Discussion in Action to Establish a Defined Process with Formal Input from Members of Council and the Mayor for the Selection of both an Interim City Manager and ultimately a Permanent City Manager under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 1.29 p.m.
 Thank you, and I do want to, again, allow counsel to know that your microphones will be up as we get up, and when you come back in, your microphones will be hot. Are the cameras left on here? Let's get that a month out of here. I'm turning everyone's mic off. Do we have a motion to return? Is there a second? There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 2.55 p.m.
 representative Fierro left the meeting at 2 22 we're on item number 24 represent canales Thank You mayor let me I have a motion to make let me start with that and I have a few comments afterwards as well first I'd like to direct I'll make a motion I move apologies I move to direct staff to schedule briefings
 with individual members of the City Council with regard to past executive search solicitation processes in advance of any future decisions of the City Council regarding a scope of work for a solicitation for an executive search firm to conduct a national search for the hiring of a permanent city manager. Second. I plan to bring, if not an item with this exact wording, an item with very similar wording,
 BACK TO THE NEXT REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA IN TWO WEEKS. I THINK THAT THESE BRIEFINGS FROM STAFF WILL BE VERY HELPFUL FOR US TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS PROCESS HAS LOOKED LIKE IN THE PAST, WHAT THESE PROCESSES LOOK LIKE ELSEWHERE, AND HOPEFULLY IT CAN EMPOWER US TO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE A VERY ROBUST PROCESS THAT WORKS FOR EVERYBODY, THAT CONSIDERS INPUT FROM OURSELVES, FROM THE PUBLIC, AND
 And again, it will give us a strong understanding of what this process might look like and should look like. Second. Thank you. And I think this is important that... I think I already made that second previously.
 I think it's important that the reason why we want to make sure that all of council has a lot of input in the scope Of what it's expected the next city manager and so it's important that we get the input from The staff on what we did last year. What are the responsibilities and then they can bring back recommendations moving forward so this is so council has the opportunity to to
 make a request as how the RFP or RFQ will go moving forward and have input as to this council's decision. And with that, we have a motion and a second, Ms. Pryor. And Mayor, if I may clarify, with Representative Canales, the scope is the scope for the firm, for the recruitment firm, correct? Yes, ma'am. Correct. Correct.
 Thank you. Mr. Kline? Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. We have Ms. Lisa Turner. Yes, sir. I knew. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. I fully expect you all to do a national search and carry it out like the last time you did when we hired Mr. Gonzalez with the committee and then kind of a meet and greet from the public so the public could actually meet who you all are wanting to
 You're looking at for city manager. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Turner. That's fine Yes, Mary there was a motion made and read into the record by representative canales seconded by mayor pro temp Anelo on item 24 on that motion call for the vote representative Hernandez. Yes Thank You representative Salcido. Thank you in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously representative Fierro not present and
 Okay, next item is, I don't know, I know we're everywhere, so I think we're on item. We can either go back to the consent agenda and pick up the items that were moved from regular or continue on. I think Representative Kennedy has stepped out for a minute to make an emergency phone call, so we'll wait for him to come back. Can we do the budget update while we're waiting? Yes, ma'am. Budget update, please. Budget update, that's item number 29. Yes, ma'am.
 This is a budget update on fixed costs and quality of life. How are you sure? So well, sir, thank you. Good afternoon mayor council Robert Cortina's city manager's office So this presentation as IT brings it up. This is a continuation of again our Integrated budget process you all again are familiar with this. We've talked about this over the last several meetings continue to provide you all information we've covered different topics over the last several weeks and
 Some of the things we've talked about, for example, we've talked about the workforce and the investment that we've made in our city employees, not only with the wages, but on the benefits and the professional development opportunities, and talked about how that makes up almost three-quarters of the city's budget. We've talked about public safety and the investments in police and fire departments, not only from the staffing levels, but also the vehicles and equipment areas.
 that go along with them and then as well as the facilities and the improvements that we're doing with the bond projects this Presentation is going to focus on a couple of different things We're going to talk a little bit about some of the fixed costs some of the things that are We're budget drivers in the current year things that we're gonna look at as we develop the budget for next year and then also One of the other key budget drivers that we've seen over the last several years and we'll see some of next year is Again, the completion of some of those quite of life projects so again this information is important because this is all gonna lead up into our five-year financial forecast and
 And that's an important tool that the budget office works on because this is really going to provide the City Council That future outlook of what not only the revenues are going to look like projected over the next five years But also projected expenditures primarily those big things that we talked about with the workforce and the police and fire investments That are really going to drive the budget over the next five years And so that's important because we want to make sure what we talked a lot about is again long-term focus long-term sustainability
 because we want to make sure that the council and the community has all of the information so that the decisions you all are making today are based on solid recommendations that are not only going to benefit this community and the organization for the coming year, but again, ultimately for getting that long-term outlook for the organization. And so again, as I mentioned, we've already covered the investment in the workforce and the public safety. So those two topics alone, so just on the workforce and public safety, account for 80% of the overall general fund budget.
 So we've already covered a large portion. Again, this presentation is going to focus on the remaining 20% and talk about some of those fixed costs and then, again, some of the things that have driven the budget over the last several years and what will continue to drive the budget in the upcoming year with the opening of some of these quite-of-life projects.
 Again, just another way to look at the budget visually. Again, that large bar on the far left hand, that's salaries and benefits for our city employees. Again, that making up a large portion of the city's budget, almost three-quarters of the overall general fund budget. One of the things I'll point out here, we had a little bit of discussion this morning in regards to grant match. I'm looking at those community projects. Congresswoman Escobar talked a little bit about. But also just the amount of federal funding that's available.
 Gallwch weld os ydych chi'n symud o hyd i'r tair o'r dde, rydych chi'n gweld ymgyrch o ran y grant. Yn bryd hyn, ar y cyfnod cyfnodol, mae gennym 1.5 miliwn o ddolr yn y cyllid ar gyfer ymgyrch o ran y grant. Mae'r rhan fawr o'r ymgyrch o'r grant yn y ddwy adran. Bydd yn ymwneud â'r tri adran, yn y diogelwch a'r iechyd cyhoeddus. Y tri adran mawr yma sy'n ymgyrch o ran y cyllid o ran y grant. Ond un o'r pethau sydd angen i ni sgwyddo mwy amdano wrth i ni d
 Rhaid i ni sicrhau bod y swrth arian yn canfod i allu mynd allan a chael y cymysg i ymgysylltu â rhai o'r grantiau hynny. Felly dyna un o'r meysydd, eto, i ddatblygu ar y llwyr sydd wedi'i gael, roeddech chi'n gweld yn y cyflwyniad y bore yma, nifer 72 miliwn o grantiau y mae gennym ni. Os ydym am fod yn gyfranogol, rhaid i ni sicrhau bod y cymysg i allu ymgysylltu â'r grantiau hynny a bod yn llwyddiannus. Rydw i wedi siarad ychydig am hyn o bryd. Rwyf yn dweud ychydig o'r p
 Mae rhai o'r pethau y mae angen i ni fod yn ymwybodol o'r effaith ar gyfer cyfraniadau, yn ôl i ni ddelio â'r sefyllfa economaidd yr ydym yn ei brofi, ac hefyd yn sicrhau ein bod yn parhau i gael cyd-ddull gyda Cyflenwad Cynulliad 2, y cyfnod o ddau a chwe procent o fuddsoddiadau, sydd ddim wedi effeithio arnom dros y flwyddyn diwethaf, ond rhywbeth y mae angen i ni fod yn ymwybodol o. Yn ôl, mae effaith ar gyfraniadau potensial, rydym yn parhau i gyd-ddiogelu a chyfarwyddo ar
 yw'r nodau allweddol y gallwn ni weithio ar y cynyddu y cyffredin ychydig yn y economi yn yr ardal El Paso. Yn gyntaf, rydyn ni'n gwybod beth sy'n digwydd yn gyffredinol, ond wrth i ni ffocws ar economi leol, rhai o'r pethau rydyn ni'n eu cadw ar. Yn gyntaf, rydyn ni'n gwybod ein bod yn teimlo'r presiwn ar rai o'r pethau rydyn ni'n mynd i siarad amdano yn y cyflwyniad hwn. Nid yn unig yn cynyddu'r cost i'n staff y ddinas, i'n gweithwyr y ddinas, ond hefyd yn edrych
 a'i fod yn cynyddu ar waith, neu mewn gwasanaethau a gwasanaethau hefyd, bydd yn parhau i gael pwysau cyllid. Rydym yn datblygu'r cyllid ar gyfer flwyddyn nesaf. Yn fawr, 160 o brosiectau cymorth o bywyd. Felly mae hyn yn bwysig o ran beth rydyn ni'n ei roi i'r cymuned. Felly a yw'n parciau newydd, neu'n ffyrdd ddogion newydd, rydyn ni wedi cael eu cynnig yn ystod diwedd yn y Parc Newydd yng Nghymru, yng nghymru o'r Joli Baras a Vinog. Roeddem yn cael y Parc Dic
 Mae'r holl brosiectau hyn, nid yn unig y cost i adeiladu neu adeiladu, ond rydych chi wedi clywed y rheolwr y ddweud am y cost o weithredu a chyfarchod sy'n gysylltu â'r cyfan. Felly, rwy'n mynd i ddangos ychydig o nombrydau yma o beth sy'n ddibynnu'r cyfran dros y flwyddynau diwethaf, ond gyda'r holl amgylcheddau hyn i'r gymuned, mae'r cost i gynnal ac i gadw'r sefydliadau hyn yn gynaliad gwael fel y gallai hyn fod yn fuddiol iawn i gymuned am ddegau i ddod.
 Felly mae hyn yn bwysig. Yn fawr 160 prosiectau cymdeithasol dros y llwyth o flynyddoedd. Ac felly gyda hynny eto, mae'r staff, y gwasanaethau, y gweithgareddau, y gwaith, rhai o'r prosiectau hynny yn ei angen rhai arian cyfrifol, p'un a yw, er enghraifft, gofalu am fwy o agorau parcio, mae angen i ni ddewis bod gennym y caroedd i allu cynnal y newydd parcio a'r amarniaethau. Ac felly rydym wedi bod yn adeiladu hynny i'r cyllid dros y llwyth o flynyddoedd. Ac dyma lle rydym
 ymlaen yn cynyddu wrth i ni ddarparu'r arian gweithredol hynny i'r cyllid y ddinas. Felly, ar gyfer y blynyddoedd bryd hyn, rydym ni ar ddau miliwn o arian sydd wedi'i gynnwys o ran arian gweithredol. Felly, ystafelloedd diwethaf, gwasanaethau, popeth sy'n ei gymryd i gynnal
 all of the facilities and the new investments in the community. And then Robert, I'd just like to add, some of the council members might remember this, I know the mayor does, when he was here during his first term. We talk about this in the 2012 capital projects budget that was approved by the voters. It did not include O&M in terms of the discussion points, and that was one of the first things we told council.
 that the operations and maintenance was going to be an impact to the budget. Also talked to them about four or five projects that were not budgeted correctly. And so those were the couple of things that were brought to the council's attention, as well as when we've done projects since then, like the 2019 bond package,
 We made a significant effort to ensure that people knew there was going to be an operations and maintenance cost. Then when we just did the most recent bond, there was only just one, a couple of items that was going to have an O&M cost to it, but we made it very clear about what it was going to cost with respect to the streets, and then that one parks project, and then the shelter covers. So I just wanted to make that one point. Thank you, Robert.
 It's an excellent point, sir. And so absolutely, when we did the 2019 Public Safety Bond, and actually in the presentation that Ms. Cody did a couple of weeks ago when we were talking about police and fire, she actually had the slides in there that showed the projected operating costs for the new facilities and the staffing that was going to be required for both police and fire departments. And again, that information will be updated and refreshed as we bring the five-year forecast to council here in the near future.
 So a list of some of the upcoming bond projects that we have that will be opening up within the next year or so. And so these are things that you're going to hear discussion about as we develop the budget for next year. Some of these projects will obviously require operating costs that go along, whether it's at the zoo, some of the new parks, some of the other new amenities. For example, the Mexican American Culture Center, we had begun building some of the operating costs in for some of the staffing, executive level staffing. But there will be some additional operating dollars that will need to be added into the budget for this coming year.
 So as we move on to looking at the fixed costs, and so these are the things that we did this, used this slide a few years ago, really breaking down the budget to not only for the, again, the council, but for the community's benefit because we hear a lot about, well, just reduce the budget, just cut the budget, but no recommendations or when you do community meetings. And so a part of this process as well and why this budget process works so well is not only does it provide the information for the council,
 But it's very useful for the community as well. So when the city manager, myself, Ms. Cody, go out and do community meetings and do presentations, it's very educational and very enlightening when you share this type of information and people understand and have a really good idea. Oh, okay, wow, I didn't know that. That makes sense. Now I understand the challenges that you're facing. So on that left-hand side there in the box, these are just some examples of our fixed costs that we have in the budget on an annual basis. So the pie you see there, the public safety, again, almost 60%.
 the remaining salary benefits of all of our workforce, that's the 80%. So what's in that other 20%? So these are some examples on the left hand side. Utilities, this is the electricity that is required to operate our city facilities. This is the street lights, which is a large, obviously consumer of electricity. All of the water that goes along with our parks and our sports fields, gas that goes along with some of our facilities, over $18 million in the current year is budgeted for those utilities.
 utilities whether it's a passive electric or a passive water as they continue to increase their rates the city is not immune from those rate increases and so in the current budget with what you all adopted last year we had about a five hundred thousand dollar increase five hundred seventy three thousand dollars actually increasing utilities so it was one of the cost drivers that we saw appraisal services you see almost five million dollars of the cost there that's the central appraisal district which does the appraisal services for not only the city but they do it for all of the taxing entities in the area
 And so appraisal services is $4.9 million. That was a $425,000 increase from the prior year. So there were several of these items that we saw pretty significant increases. The security and janitorial contracts, which we've talked a little bit about over the last few council meetings as well, over a $600,000 increase in those contracts. And again, being driven by the increase in those labor costs that are obviously labor intensive. And so we've seen increases in those as well.
 The animal shelter four point two million dollars there something that it's a transfer from the general fund something that again We need to continue explore and look at if we need to increase that transfer to have the general fund help Subsidize some of the animal service improvements that are going on currently so you see they're just in these few items seventy two million and
 Just a few of the examples of what makes up that remaining, again, small portion of the overall operating budget after you look at what's left over after you take care of police and fire and our city employees.
 And I know we've heard a lot of feedback from some parts of the community with regard to the shelter That was a lot less than 2014 for the shelter We were actually at 20 percent 23 percent no-kill and now we're at 74 percent Which I know should be still better before kovat. We were in the high 80s So there's been significant movement there and obviously we're having some challenges right now But that's a significant amount of money that we were putting in there that we weren't putting in there before So I did want to make that point
 So the next couple of slides just provide a look at again the utilities that I mentioned And so this is a comparison of just the first five months of this current fiscal year compared to the five months in the prior years You see we're about four hundred thousand dollars higher than we were at this time last year And so this is looking at again electricity Water and natural gas as well And so we knew that was going to trend upwards just based on the rates of what the utilities had and so again, we know a pass of water already has planned increases for next year as well, and so
 We know that the city will continue to see increases in our utility cost next year again This is just showing a year-over-year comparison on utilities You see in the last couple years again as the utilities are raising their rates again The city is not immune from those increases and we need to build those into the budget to be able to operate Again, whether it's electricity water or gas that goes along with all of our city facilities and all of our parks And so as we look to again the aging facilities something that the city manager has been
 asking Ellen to ensure that we have that refreshed is looking at again all of our city facilities We do know that we have an aging inventory of city facilities We do have the public safety bomb which is looking to renovate and not only add new but also renovate a lot of those stations But we do know that we'd still have a huge need The City Council has been very proactive of adding those dollars into the budget to be able to do a lot of these improvements using annual dollars in the budget so for example the City Council that last summer approved the three million dollars and
 Felly, miliwn o ddolion ar gyfer ardalau, miliwn o ddolion ar gyfer amgylcheddau parcio, a yna miliwn o ddolion ar gyfer y sefydliadau. I allu cychwyn ar ychydig o'r materion hynny, ond rydym yn gwybod, yn ôl y cyflwyniad, nad yw hynny'n eithaf eithaf. Ond mae'r 3 miliwn o ddolion yn y cyflwyniad nawr, ac mae rhan o'r bryd hon yma heb fod yn y cyflwyniad i allu gwneud rhai o'r pethau hynny. Felly, eto, byddwn yn dda iawn.
 yn y ffordd rydyn ni'n gwneud llawer o'r adeiladau hyn, ac nid yn cael mynd allan i'w ffinansio neu ddefnyddio'r arian i wneud rhai o'r gwellau neu'r prwciau hyn. Ond oherwydd rydyn ni wedi cael, fel yn y sleid penodol hon, mae'n rhaid i chi gofio nad oedd cymryd gwasanaeth arall ar gyfer llawr a chyffwrdd, ac pan oedd yn cael ei gyflawni, roedd yn cael ei gyflawni gyda rhaglenau cyllid,
 yn fwy costig ac nid yn hynod effeithiol. Rydyn ni hefyd wedi cael cynnydd y cynllun 300 o'r 2015 i gynllun 300 o weithwyr addasol. Ac yna pan edrychwyd ar y ffaith bod y ddaeaf yn tyfu'n gyflym ac yna fe wnaethon ni ymgyrchu â'r Cyfforddiad Rheolaidd y ddaeaf, bydd y nifer hwnnw'n mynd i fyny'n uchel, y 300 o weithwyr addasol. Felly roeddwn i eisiau cyflwyno hynny. Ac yna hefyd y cymorth i'r strydau.
 a sut y byddwn ni'n eu sefydlu ar gyfer hynny. Felly, mae'r ffacilitiaeth hefyd ar y llist, ond mae'n y llist ffwrdd ar y llist. Ac rydym wedi'i gyfraithiadu'r neges hwn am ddewis amser, dim ond rhywbeth eto i'w ystyried, oherwydd yn y dyfodol, mae hynny'n rhywbeth sy'n angen ymwneud â'r ymwneud, yn ogystal â'r newid y llwythoedd a phob un o'r adranau eraill. Oherwydd rydym wedi lleoli'r prifysgol, y llwythoedd, y strydau,
 Mae'n dda, ond mae'r ddau ardal arall sydd angen ymwneud â hynny hefyd. Efallai y byddai'n rhywbeth y mae'r Cyngor angen ei ystyried yn y dyfodol. Ac wedyn, rwyf wedi siarad ychydig am hyn. Rhai o'r pethau sy'n mynd i effeithio ar y cyllid i'r flwyddyn nesaf. Yn gweithio gyda'n adran IT, gwnaethon ni weld cynyddu mawr iawn, tua $3 miliwn yn y cyllid blynyddol yma, o'r hyn a ddodod gan y Cyngor y Deyrnas Unedig a'n contractau IT. Ac yna, y sleid diweddara
 ar y llaw ar y llaw, nid yn effeithio ar gwasanaethau'r ddynion sydd yn eu darparu, ond mae'n fwy na hynny, oherwydd fel y dywedais yn gynharach yn y cyflwyniad, rydym yn ymateb i wasanaethau'r newydd, a'r peth yw drwy'r cyfnod o bywyd gyda'r holl amgylcheddau newydd, neu'r peth yw drwy'r diogelu cyhoeddus o ddod â'r newydd arstafon, sy'n mynd i ddod yn y llaw yma yn y dyfodol, y newydd ar y ddynion arall, y cyfnod o ddynion cyhoeddus, sy'n mynd i ddod
 yn unig, mae'r effaith yn ei leihau ar ein cyllidau a chyngor yma wedi bod yn ddiddorol iawn mewn lleihau effaith ar ein cyllidau, a yw'n cynyddu'r amgylchedd ar gyfer ein myfyrwyr a'r ddim, a yw'r holl waith yw'n ddigon leol ac yn ymwneud â'r tîm myfyrwyr a chadw'r cyfrifoedd yn llai, a ddim yn rhoi'r rhain i'r cyllidwyr, y gweithgareddau datblygu economaidd, ac rydyn ni wedi cael sylwadau yn ystod y sylwadau cyhoeddus, ond
 Mae'r cyfraniadau datblygu economaidd hynny yn dod yn dda i gynnwys newydd swyddi newydd, ac yn dod yn dda i gynnwys swyddi yn fwy cymorth, yn fwyaf yn dda i'r holl ddisgyblion ariannol eraill sydd ddim yn cymryd rhan mewn y diogeluadau datblygu economaidd hynny, sy'n dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn dod yn
 fe siaradais ychydig yn ddiweddar am y grantiau a pha mor bwysig yw hynny ac yn leoli'r grantiau a oes yn y dde, ac rydyn ni ddiweddar yn gynharach wedi cael y grant fwyaf, a oedd yn cael ei gwerthu i'r Adran Ffyrdd, dros 4 miliwn o ddolr, a fydd yn helpu i ffynnu rhai o'r staff sydd yn cael eu ei angen i'r Adran Ffyrdd. Felly eto, byddwn yn hyderus iawn am sut rydyn ni'n mynd allan a'i ddefnyddio i'r holl fforddau gwahanol i allu llwyddo effaith ar ein cyfrifwyr
 Ac yna un o'r llyfrau eraill yw hefyd y cyllid ar y cyllid ac felly eto, bod yn ddigon proiectig a strategol am sut rydyn ni'n gwneud hynny. Eto, i allu gwneud pob un o'r prosiectau ond mewn ffordd yn gyfrifol iawn o'r ffisgol, gyda'r holl gwasanaethau cyllid rydyn ni wedi gallu ei gyflwyno eto, i gael y cyfrif tax ar y cyllid yn enwedig. Ac felly mae gennym, gan siarad am hynny, cyllid ar y cyllid, mae gennym un o'r pethau a fydd yn dod i'r Cyngor yn ystod y misau nesaf neu so.
 Mae'n ymwneud â'r ballpark. Roedd y ffordd yna o'i gynllunio a'i sefydlu. Roedd ganddyn nhw'r cyllideb o $17 miliwn o blwm ym 2023. Roeddem yn llynu'r rhan fawr o hynny yn 2016, ond mae gennym y llall o $5 miliwn o gyllideb, sy'n yllw ar gyfer mlynedd 2023. Felly byddwn yn gwneud rhywfaint o sefydliadau ar hynny i ddod â'r costau hynny i lawr i fydd gennym ni ddim cyllideb o $5 miliwn o blwm unwaith.
 Yn ogystal ag y cyfnod, rydyn ni'n gwneud popeth sy'n gallu ei wneud i fod yn proiectif a sut rydyn ni'n rheoli nid dim ond y rhan gweithredu ond y rhan ddynol hefyd. Ac yna, y llawr olaf yma yw cyngor, yn ogystal ag ar y calender, lle rydyn ni arno. Yr holl wybodaeth rydych chi wedi'i glywed, yn canolbwyntio ar y cyfeiriadau cost, yw'r hyn rydyn ni wedi bod yn siarad amdano dros y llai o ddilyniadau, yw'r diogelu cyhoeddus, ein gweithle, y prosiectau gwaith o'r diwedd,
 ar y lle rydyn ni'n bodoli ym mis ymlaen, ond eto, yn ffocysu ar y ddiogelu'r sefydliad yn ystod y ddiogelu a'r gweithredaeth. Felly mae hynny'n bwysig wrth i'r Cyngor ddechrau clywed mwy o wybodaeth amrywiol dros y flwyddyn nesaf o ran y cyllid, ac fe wyt ti'n gwneud y penderfyniad yn awgust pan fyddwch chi'n cyflwyno'r cyllid ar gyfer y flwyddyn ffiscaol 2024.
 Rwy'n dweud y byddai'r cyflwyniadau a'r cyflwyniad o'r balwm yn ymwneud â hynny. Roedd hynny'n rhywbeth rwy'n gwybod y mae'r Prif Weinidog yn ei wybod, ac rwy'n gwybod bod rhai o'r cynghorwyr cyngor sy'n newydd, hyd yn oed y rhai sydd ddim yn newydd, efallai nad ydynt yn ymwybodol o'r ffaith bod hynny wedi cael ei roi i mewn, y rhaglen rhwng ymgysylltu,
 Rydyn ni wedi cyfnodd y cwmpas ychydig o amser ac rydym wedi gallu gael am 21 miliwn o ddolri. Roedden ni'n gwybod y byddai'r cyflog y balwn hwn yn dod i fyny yn awgwrth 2023, felly mae'n rhaid i hynny fod yn cael ei adlewyrchu. Rwy'n hoffi sicrhau bod yn gwbl yn ymwybodol o hynny ac yn clywed hynny am lawer o amser. Felly dyna rhywbeth rydym wedi bod yn gweithio arno a rhywbeth sy'n rhaid i ni gael arni arno. Felly, eto, gallwn ni adlewyrchu hynny fel y gallai hynny fod yn ymgysylltio
 Yn ystod y 20 ac yna 21. Iawn, Prif Weinidog. Yn ystod y 20, mae'r adroddiad yn ymwneud â'r adroddiad sy'n dweud bod y cyllid o arian o'r 8 oedd yn cyfrifol i'w gynllunio mewn cyfnod nad yw'n cychwyn 3500 i'r costau o ddod o hyd i'r cyfarfod Rhwydwaith El Paso i'r Prif Weinidog o 17 o'r cydweithwyr rhwydwaith sy'n cael eu cydnabod yn bwysig. Mae hyn yn yr adroddiad gan Ynolis.
 motion to approve there is a motion made by representative canales seconded by a representative molina to approve item number 20 on that motion call for the vote and i was notified that representatives hernandez and salcido have left the meeting in the voting session the motion passes unanimously
 with representatives Kennedy, Hernandez, Salcido, Fierro not present. I forgot. Mayor you said item 21.
 Item 21 is discussion in action on a resolution that the City of El Paso sets a goal to reach a minimum hourly wage of $15 for City of El Paso employees by the end of FY 2026 and that the City of El Paso will monitor progress towards this goal and consider future increases to ensure that City employees are able to earn a wage that allows them to support themselves and their families. This is Representative Canales' item. And I think we have called to the public on this item.
 Miss Turner, we'll go ahead and take you first so I don't forget you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I just would like to know what parallel universe you were in that you would actually think $15 an hour is going to pay and support somebody. At $15 an hour today, you're talking about that paycheck minus taxes, not taking anything else out. You're talking about it being a...
 A one-bedroom apartment will take about 40% of that, if not a little bit more. Then you have to throw in utilities and food and transportation, clothing, all the other things of life. It don't float the boat. It makes no sense. And then turn around and tell me we're going to do this in 2026. You can't do it today on $15 an hour.
 Ms. Turner, you might want to ask what $7.25 an hour pays. Even less. That's right. That's our state minimum wage. And I know that Mr. Gonzalez and his team have worked really, really hard. Right now, currently, we have it at $12.11. And he has proposed to continue to escalate and move it forward. So it's really important to see that it's a real joke to see that our state is at $7.25 an hour and really believes that somebody would be able to support themselves or their family.
 All I know is you have children going hungry in this city, and you have, let's just say, it's a single mother working two and three jobs trying to raise a child and doesn't have enough money just to cover the basic living expenses. And if they happen to work for the city, it's a black eye on you because nobody working for $15 an hour today can make it.
 It's just that simple. If you're a single mother and you've got one child, you're not going to make it on $15 an hour. And that's in 2026. You can't do that today in 2023. I beg you to reconsider what you're doing and see if you can't get it higher. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. We'll start. We also received a statement for the record from Melissa Harcrow.
 And it reads, good afternoon. Please read into the record if I'm not online. Good afternoon, mayor and council. My name is Melissa Harcrow.
 And as the chair of the Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee, I express my support for this item and urge to support as well. Not only does an increased wage align with goal one to build a strong and sustainable economy, but also goals four and eight, enhance quality of life and create a healthy and sustainable community respectively. Low wages have been noted as a key area for improvement in the 2022 Community Needs Assessment conducted by Community and Human Development.
 combined arms veterans needs assessments in 2020, identifying almost 40 percent of veterans
 think a wage of between $15 and $18 is a livable wage and many expressed a desire to leave the community in search of higher wages. With that, working towards a $15 an hour wage will attract and retain veterans, spouses, and families. It will also continue to guide the city to its goal of having at least 15% of its employees as veterans by 2025, of which we are currently standing at 12%. Finally, a wage increase may help veterans and families from being a risk
 homeless and other insecurities thank you again for your time and thank you for your consideration thank you I want to thank Miss Turner for her comments I think everything she said is a hundred percent correct I do want to point out however that we are currently at the city at $12 an hour this action today would not
 discourage council for moving above the $15 an hour at any point but there's been a lot of conversation about can we get there should we get there how do we get there and this at least sets a path for us moving into the budget cycle to say okay we need in instantly actually back up a little bit I believe we put about six million dollars in the last budget to get us to twelve
 We were at 10 before that. And so this at least puts us on a path through that budget cycle to get us there. Again, does not discourage this council, future councils, during any future budget to go above that at any point. But I think it's important that we still at least set those –
 those goals to get to $15 an hour. Would I love to see it by 2025? Love to see it, Robert. Love to make it happen. But I know that the request is to action to put council until 2026. Is that what the agenda item is? Yes, ma'am. Okay, I'm saying this and I wanted to make sure I'm correct. And so I think today this is an important step, but it doesn't mean we're not going to keep trying to go above and beyond, Ms. Turner. I promise you that. And I think Mr. Cortinas is there and that's a very good point.
 And I think there's what I was going to ask you. And I believe that it's an important point. And so we, I don't want to speak for the city manager, he can speak for himself, but I believe that we've shown, we've brought forth recommended budgets over the last eight years that included some form of an increase for our employees. We've gotten really aggressive as far as the increases over the last couple of years. The council's been very supportive of those recommendations as it improves those increases, but it needs to be done in a fiscally responsible manner. Because as I just showed on that last slide, we have competing interests where we have not only maintaining current service,
 We have expanding services and we're also working to minimize the impact on our taxpayers. So it's a balancing act. Not only are we dealing with that, one of the key points, and I had it in the presentation I went through pretty quickly, but I want to make it now, is Senate Bill 2, the 3.5% property tax cap that we currently have to face. That's a state law that we have to be in compliance with. We can adopt a tax rate with that, over that 3.5%. If we do, the city council does, then it has to go to the voters and the voters have to
 So that's unfortunately a challenge that we're faced with now. This council's been very supportive of, as I mentioned, what we've been doing with the employees. We'll continue to bring forth, again, those recommendations on a year-by-year basis depending upon the available revenue, but that Senate Bill 2 is an important new factor that we're having to work with as we develop the budgets and bring forth the city manager proposed budgets. So the only thing I would add to that is part of our economic development strategy has been to increase wages, and the community's wages have increased
 by almost 20% over the last several years. So that's due to the council's approval of those policies and those budgets that we put in place for those economic development agreements. But in addition to that, we have raised the minimum wage multiple times
 over the last several years. We do have plans to do it in the next fiscal year as well. That's part of the discussions that I've had with our team, but it'll be determined by what you finally or ultimately vote on in August. Thank you. Mr. Cortinas and...
 With the $15 an hour and being a team member of the city of El Paso, there's benefits. What are some of the benefits that are received, not only in hourly wage, but also that city employees do benefit from? That's a great question. You all may recall a presentation that we did a few weeks ago, about six weeks ago,
 We're going to be very competitive on the actual salary, but we've implemented new incentives. So for example, we have our incentive for our CDL position. So our bus drivers, our sanitation drivers provide them additional incentive of up to $2,400 a year. It's $90 a paycheck. We implemented a new with this current budget, new incentives for animal service employees and for employees at the zoo that require certain immunizations to work with animals.
 Some of the new incentives. We have our UMatter recognition program. We have tuition assistance. We have not raised the health care rates for our employees in the last four years. Gosh, I don't want to leave anything out, but I don't have the full list in front of me. But there's a long list of different incentives. There's a Shape It Up program for $150 a month. The Shape It Up, which you can earn $1,800 a year. And so there's a lot of different incentives that, and the sign-on incentive for $1,000. So a lot of different areas where...
 The city's really focusing on obviously attracting and keeping our existence out but then also taking it to the next level of Encouraging them to take care of the health encouraging them to go back to school to get their education Because that helps them be prepared to promote in advance through the organization and again, it's all part of that succession implementation that the city manager likes to refer to and
 so that we have leaders that are ready to step up as people move on throughout the organization. And then we also put a program in place. It was an employee committee that put it together, and that's in addition to the across-the-board pay increases. They also asked for a merit increase on top of that, and we put that program in place as well. Again, listening to our employees. Bless you.
 And then what we have been doing in addition to that is employee surveys as well as town hall meetings with employees and we get their feedback and that's another source of data points that we receive and then act upon that and then go back and report that out to the employees as well. And we'll include all that information when we do the fire forecast showing all of the different incentives that we provide as an organization and also the benefits that we provide to our city employees. Thank you. Representative Canales.
 Thank you again for putting the item on the agenda. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to get a reputation for doing this, but I want to read the resolution so that we have the full text. So I'm going to read the text of the resolution. This one's not as long as last time.
 So resolution whereas the city of El Paso recognizes the importance of providing city employees with a livable wage that allows them to support themselves and their families and Whereas the MIT living wage calculator suggests that a single adult in El Paso in 2023 would need to earn at least $14 and 67 cents per hour to cover basic expenses and
 And whereas the current minimum hourly wage for City of El Paso employees is $12.11, which is below a true living wage in El Paso.
 And whereas increasing the minimum hourly wage for City of El Paso employees can provide benefits such as increased purchasing power, causing more dollars to circulate in the local economy, reduced poverty and inequality, and improved employee morale and productivity. And whereas the City of El Paso has already taken steps to increase the minimum hourly wage for City of El Paso employees, including a total increase of $1 per hour, approximately 9%, during fiscal year 2023,
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso sets a goal to reach a minimum hourly wage of $15 for City of El Paso employees by the end of fiscal year 2026. Be it further resolved that the City of El Paso will monitor progress towards this goal and consider future increases to ensure that city employees are able to earn a wage that allows them to support themselves and their families. So just, Ms. Turner, addressing your comment, the...
 MONITOR AND CONSIDER FUTURE INCREASES. IT SHOWS THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE MINIMUM. WE WANT TO COMMIT THE CITY TO MEETING AT LEAST THIS MINIMUM GOAL. WITHOUT THIS, THERE IS NO GOAL FOR CONTINUED INCREASES. AND SO WE WANT THIS TO BE A MINIMUM GOAL. THIS WOULD NECESSITATE A $1 A YEAR INCREASE. IN TODAY DOLLARS, THAT'S $9.8 MILLION PER YEAR. EACH 50 CENT INCREMENT THAT WE MADE IN FISCAL YEAR 2023 COST US $4.9 MILLION.
 And so we're looking, I mean, to get to $15, it's in the ballpark of a $25 million expense for the city. Again, I think if we can do it faster, that'd be great. But phasing in $25 million into our budget over three years is a reasonable minimum goal, in my opinion, for us.
 to reach what I think is what we should be paying our employees. Again, that's both because it's the right thing to do, but also for the benefits for the organization. I mean, this will hopefully improve employee morale and lead to even higher quality of service that our employees are giving the public. It'll help us with retention. It'll help us with recruitment. We're carrying...
 There's vacancies still, especially in certain quality of life areas that we've had vacant positions since the pandemic that not for want of trying, you know, we have those positions advertised. And I think a higher wage will help us to attract employees that want to work in those positions. And so to me, this is a very reasonable goal for us to reach by the end of fiscal year 26. Thank you.
 to get to $15. And again, this is something we can continue to monitor. You know, we're talking today dollars that the, again, MIT has developed a tool that works city by city and provides what it thinks is the minimum livable wage. In 2023 for El Paso, that is $14.67, as it says in the resolution.
 VERY LIKELY THAT BY 2026 THAT NUMBER WILL BE HIGHER AND HOPEFULLY THE COUNCIL CAN CONTINUE TO EVALUATE THIS AND LOOK TO ADJUST UPWARD AS WE NEED TO. THANKS, MAYOR. THANK YOU, SIR. REPRESENTATIVE KENNEDY FOLLOWED BY REPRESENTATIVE MOLINAT. I THINK THAT THE GOAL OF GETTING TO A HIGHER WAGE RATE IS A GOOD GOAL, BUT I WOULD ALSO SAY WHEN WE START LOOKING AT THE COMPENSATION PACKAGE FOR THE EMPLOYEES, SOME OF THE THINGS THAT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT NEED TO BE LOOKED AT ALSO.
 So the question would then be, do you raise to the detriment of the benefits that they're getting? Because are you then moving them from one line item to another? I would also caution, I think it's a great goal, and I agree with the goal. I do. You pay more money, you've got easier for the city to hire people. My concern is on the fiscal end, we do have a new police contract that will be coming in very soon.
 and is also at a critical weight. So I would say I agree with the goal. I would just say when you're looking at the entire package, to make sure that we look at the entire package of compensation and benefits for the individuals and not just the sheer wage rate. Because you could say I'm going to pay them more and make them pay fully for their health insurance as a way to shift that burden. And have they really won anything in the meantime? So I think that that's a cautionary tale.
 Excellent point there represent McKinney It's one of things that didn't mention one of the things that we we point out But we probably need to draw more attention to when we do these presentations We do it when we go out and do recruiting recruitments and job fairs the city's pension So employees can shoot plays are interested in a pension is a very very attractive tool to be able to get people to come work for the city employee contributes 9% the city employer contributes over 14% and
 Pretty significant investment if you're looking to make a career out of coming to work for the city. And that's, again, why we highly encourage individuals that work for the city currently to go back to school, get their education so they're prepared and they're able to advance throughout the organization and make it a career. You don't have to be stuck in one job. You can be able to advance and promote whether working in different departments or higher levels. So the pension is a very, very attractive tool. A lot of people don't know about it. They may not be familiar with how it works, but it is a very, very attractive tool for a lot of city employees. And that's one of the reasons why.
 We have a lot of employees that have 15, 20, 25 years of service because, again, that's something that not a lot of corporations offer anymore. A lot of companies have started to do away with pensions or any form of retirement. I mean, even trying to get decent healthcare coverage nowadays is a challenge from some private employers. So point taken as far as incentives. Thank you. Representative Moulinard. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Gonzalez, thank you very much for bringing this item up to the forefront. Appreciate that very much.
 Would like to say is the word monitor gonna also mean could mean different things, you know And of course who can predict the future what's going to happen or not going to happen or how it's going to happen But it doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to be in an increase. There could always be a decrease So mr. Cordenas if you don't mind coming back up front, so you mentioned the pension that I
 Anything you know pensions are volatile anything can happen and so we need to be careful with that as well Representative Kenny mentioned a collective bargain agreement right now with the police association and members of the opossum Police Department so I know we're
 Talking about that. I know mr. Gonzalez you and I had a conversation about that and I'm not here to disclose anything or Not ask you to right but We're pretty close to that. I believe yes, so the negotiations have been completed we spent all of February doing it our last meeting was March 3rd and It's up for a vote right now with the membership the union membership and so that should be coming back to the council at the next council meeting and
 Okay. Well, I... Thank you for that, by the way. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And if you're alluding to the fact that it's going to, and that's what Representative Kennedy was saying as well, it is going to cost us, but it's going to help with attrition. It's going to also help with recruitment. And we obviously need help with the attrition rate that's been going up, and we needed to be very competitive, and this agreement that we negotiated is very competitive.
 Definitely I I haven't been law enforcement. I agree with you and what you hear from the people out in the streets and things like that what's happening in the community not just the streets so I am supportive of this item, but I think we just need to be careful on moving forward how much more what we can do is because there's always going to be challenges.
 And so I will be supporting this just to let you know representative canales but monitor can mean many things to different people and Always the makeup of this board or this council can change at any time in the future So we need to be cognizant of that as well. We need a second Um, yeah
 I understand Representative Kennedy's point, but I will say this item sets a goal, right? This doesn't adopt an increase. That would have to happen year to year through the budget process. And if a representative wanted to put out the idea that they wanted to decrease the benefits for city employees, they could do that through the budget process, in my opinion, to their own detriment.
 in their political future. And so this is, again, just setting a goal. I think it's something that we should look to incorporate. If we adopt it today as a formal goal of the city council, I think it's something we need to look to incorporate in our strategic planning going forward and make sure that this is something that we're realistically aiming for and that continued increases are something that,
 at the forefront of our minds as we move into a next phase of the city's strategic plan as well I was just gonna just say that represent canalis we would never at least we our position and what we've been recommending we would not take money from the benefits in order to make up on another side of payment to the employees certainly that hasn't been what we've heard
 from them and i don't know that that's what was inferred by the representative i think it was just talking about how that could be an option but i will just tell you that's something we wouldn't recommend and i don't think the staff would recommend that going forward either so i don't think that's a concern that you should have right and again i think in setting this goal we're saying essentially that um we look to as if as we uh
 realize any potential future revenue growth that this becomes one of the priorities for for where that revenue growth Will go to fund
 That's the intention of this item. Again, it deliberately doesn't talk about benefits or anything else because I think increases in wages should be a priority for future revenue growth to fund. Right, right, and the reason why we do the budget updates all the time, I know sometimes it gets tedious, but we do that during the budget, or during the calendar year and the fiscal year, throughout the year, so that council has all that information and they're very familiar with it, so when they get into the budget cycle,
 We don't have to go into those levels of detail because it's about the priorities. Mentioned before about police and fire equipment replacement, how that wasn't being done annually. Streets is another example of that. The 300 plan for the police officers. The facilities, you're gonna get a presentation in a subsequent council meeting about the needs of the facilities. And obviously the pay.
 not only for police and fire, but also all our employees. And we've been aggressive with that in the last several years. We've also been aggressive with that with economic development policies that the council has supported and passed in order to increase wages in the community by almost 20% in the last several years. So you're right, this has been a priority for the council. It is a priority for this council as well. And that is something that we'll be looking at and we appreciate the challenge.
 And one final comment too is that the other thing that I deliberately didn't discuss in this resolution is the compression and how, you know, I guess the goal here involves...
 lifting up the bottom so to speak but not necessarily that the same increase of cascades up through the entire organization I I want to leave that entirely up to staff yeah it has what makes the most sense and how we structure that yeah of course continued increases yeah throughout the entirety of the city's workforce or important but I think that
 Again, this focuses purely on the minimum wage and looking at how we can lift up the bottom earners in the city. Right, but you're exactly right about the compression, which means that if you lift the bottom and it gets up closer to someone who's supervising them, then the supervisor asks why I'm only making 30 cents more per hour than these five people I'm supervising. Compression is a real...
 necessity in looking at the budget overall when you look at these kinds of pay increases. I had that discussion with the mayor and some other council members who asked me about this item. And so yes, to your point, that's a very real issue and one in which you can't ignore when you make these adjustments. So when we have been making these adjustments to the minimum wage, we also have been doing those adjustments upward as well. And there are some areas, there might be some pockets that we still need to get to.
 and that's the reason why we've been so aggressive with pay across the board yeah and again I deliberately leave that that compression question to experts in the Office of Management and Budget and and the rest of city staff again I think this goal I just wanted it to
 Pertain very specifically to yes, sir to the minimum wage understood But just for the council's edification that ripple effect or that compression is something that's built into the budget We can't ignore it because then we have other issues We have other problems with those other layers of positions and we've seen that already and we see people jumping into other departments And so that's something that has to be considered as well and we would consider that when we come back with any additional recommendations and
 Right, and that would be considered, too, year by year in the budget conversation? Yes, sir, that's correct. All right. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Kennedy, followed by Mayor Potem. I was going to say I wasn't suggesting that they have ever moved benefits over, but I do think when we look at the compensation for people, we need to look at it.
 holistically where there have been raises many times in many businesses with the amount that they are paying for their health insurance and retirement and things like that. And I know the city has been very sensitive to try and hold the line on that. So I just think that we need to do that. And I was just going to say, you said to the detriment of our political futures, you're presuming we all want a political future.
 I think it's important. And, Mr. Kennedy, with regard to – I'm glad you noted that with regard to the health care increases because in the past, I know one of the complaints from the employees in the town halls was that whenever they got increases, like in 2020,
 I think 2009, because they had like five years with no pay increases, but yet they had increases to the healthcare. So they actually got pay decreases for almost like five years in a row. So that's the reason why Robert mentioned that, because we're very sensitive to that. So the last four years, we've just paid for it. And typically when you have healthcare increases in the organization, in any organization the size of this one, half of it the city pays or the organization pays, the other half the employee pays.
 And we have not passed that along to the employee in the last four years So when they see an increase it's actually been a true increase. Just want to make that note. Thank you mayor pro tem Thank you mayor. Yeah, I just wanted to reiterate so this isn't again anything new the council This is an item that was put up about six months ago. I
 the council directed staff to do a study to see what the wages were and where we needed to be. And this is just the next step. But there are more steps to follow this. We also need to be looking at those we do contracts with and what their minimum wage is. We do need to be looking at our benefits package. The reality is we have not come full circle out of the pandemic. We still have facilities that are closed. And that's due to staffing issues, right? This is a very much needed action to get us to where we need to be.
 previous to the pandemic. Is it the best way to go? I mean, yeah, I wish we could be a little bit more aggressive, but it's extremely important that this council is investing in its workforce and its future, right? These should be our biggest goals moving towards the budget is the investment in our community to getting us back to where we were, if not better. And so really happy to have my name on this item. It's something we've been talking about for a very long time and I'm just really excited for this vote. So thank you everybody who worked on it. Thank you.
 And the last thing I do want to say, I think it's important that the city manager talked about that the police contract has been done. And because that was a big concern of a lot of people that we're in the middle of negotiations with the police, that contract has been done. And it's in the hands of the police officers and it's been taken for a vote. And will be brought back, as Mr. Gonzalez stated, for council approval in the next city council meeting, hopefully.
 So I think that's something important. I should caveat that depending on how they vote. That's what I said, hopefully. Yes, sir, I didn't caveat that, so I'm glad you mentioned that. That's what I did. But I know that you all worked really hard, and I know that the union was pleased with the negotiations of your team. So thank you again for that. And with that, Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. I heard the second, but I didn't hear it. I quote him.
 The motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, and also co-sponsored by Mayor Pro Tem Anello to approve item number 21. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you for that, thank you, Council Representative Canales and Mayor Pro Tem, thank you for bringing that item. That means a lot, I know, to our team members in the city.
 And with that, I think we're getting ready for a call to the public, right? No, sir. If we may return to the items that were moved from consent to regular, we have three items. Item number three is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement to the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Legate Company, Texas, LLC, for the renovation of a mixed-use building located at 201 East San Antonio Avenue.
 NO, PLEASE. KENNEDY. YEAH, I BROUGHT THIS UP. MY CONCERN WAS WE WENT FROM A FIVE-YEAR RETAIL SALES AND USE REBATE SCHEDULE TO A 15-YEAR PROPERTY TAX SCHEDULE. ABSOLUTELY. SO KARINA BRZGALA WITH ECONOMIC AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. SO THIS ORIGINAL AGREEMENT WAS APPROVED NOVEMBER 8TH OF 2022. AS WE TRANSITIONED THE AGREEMENT OVER INTO OUR COMPLIANCE SECTION, WE WERE NOTIFIED OF THAT ISSUE WITH EXHIBIT D.
 REFERENCING THE SALES TAX USE AND REBATE SCHEDULE, THAT DOES NOT REFLECT THE TEXT OF THE LANGUAGE OF THE AGREEMENT, WHICH IS A PROPERTY TAX REBATE. SO WHAT WE'RE DOING IS ALIGNING THE LANGUAGE THAT'S WRITTEN WITH THE REFERENCED EXHIBIT. SO IT DOES NOT MAKE A MATERIAL CHANGE TO THE AGREEMENT. THE PROPERTY TAX IS WHAT WAS PRESENTED, WHAT WAS ADOPTED BY CITY COUNCIL AND EXECUTED. IT'S JUST TO AVOID ANY CONFUSION. OKAY. I HAVE NO PROBLEM. I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE.
 Is there a motion? Yeah, I'll move to approve. Great. Ms. Pern? Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item three on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez, Salcido, Fierro not present. The next item that was moved to regular is item four. This is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an amendment to the Chapter
 development program agreement between the city of El Paso and 309 Mills LLC to support an infill renovation project for a building commonly known as DeSoto located at 309 East Mills Avenue. Representative Kennedy.
 I'm back. Okay, on this one, my concern was I realize that the investment went from $1.2 million to $2.4 million on their part. Yes, sir. However, obviously this was the building that burnt, and I'm wondering if the other $1.2 million came out of an insurance, so there's actually no additional funding for it. We're just sacrificing more tax dollars for it.
 Great question. Karina Brescala again, Economic and International Development. So with this one, as you noted, the DeSoto Hotel, initial agreement approved in December of 2021. Just a few months later in February of 2022, the building did catch on fire and sustained some pretty severe fire damage. And then we've got a breakdown. Let me click through the slides here so I can show you. So as you noted, the minimum investment has doubled.
 Here you go, project cost comparison. So the city is increasing our incentive to 100% for 15 years. The county will be participating. It has not gone to commissioner's court, but they do intend to assist.
 DMD has already issued grant funds, and then the insurance is about $626,000, and then the developer cost has increased about 34%. So the developer and insurance combined are paying 85% of that cost for that rehabilitation of that building, and that includes restoring it as originally planned under the first agreement, hotel, ground floor, restaurant, but also remediating all of that fire damage.
 My concern is we went from, if you're looking at the property tax, right, city incremental property tax rebate, went from 42 to 158. I get concerned when it would seem that some of the additional funding was from insurance to help bring that up to, you know, back to where it was. But we're –
 forking over 100% for and I realize that the county is now involved also for some additional but I am concerned that we went up a couple of hundred percent on our portion of it
 And I just wonder if that makes sense at this point. So whenever we assess our incentive agreements, we are always looking at the total tax benefit with the, and the amendment does, the intent has always been that the project would be developed as a hotel. We are making that a requirement of the agreement, which guarantees the city that hotel occupancy tax over the 15 year period, we are not rebating that. And then in addition, that ground floor restaurant space would generate sales and use tax. So this is the chart showing the estimated
 tax revenue to all taxing entities over the 15 year incentive period so the city's still generating 1.2 little over that total tax benefit to city county school districts all of our other entities 1.8 almost 1.9 million dollars and then at the end of that 15 year period of course is
 The alternative, I'll be quite frank, would be a tear down of the building possibly or demolition. We wouldn't be generating nearly as much revenue off of a vacant lot. And so what we're looking at is at the end of the agreement we'd be seeing a dramatic increase to our tax revenue in terms of property tax. How much increased tax impact are you seeing from what was originally estimated to what is estimated now?
 So we can pull up the original numbers. I don't have them off the top of my head. I told you I do recognize you, but... I forget all the time.
 the time we can definitely pull up those numbers for you though the one thing I just want to clarify is that under this amendment we're requiring that this be a hotel throughout the term of the agreement so for the full 17-year term of the agreement that was not something that was required under the original agreement so this 1.2 million you see on the slide was not guaranteed to the city under the original agreement however under the amendment it is now
 guaranteed so long as it remains a hotel my concern is that we're for our 118,000 additional we're getting a guarantee it's gonna stay a hotel which probably was gonna do anyway right
 Not necessarily. I mean if it didn't work as a hotel What could happen is it could have transitioned to residential which then you wouldn't be collecting the hot off the residential It would be the property tax revenue only Which is much lower than what we're expecting to collect from the hot and I'm happy to pull up the numbers It would just take me a moment to do. Yeah, my concern is I understand that
 fairly comfortably about hotel tax. Sure. And I know that they're restricted funds, and I understand that. My concern is we've tripled the amount of money we're kicking in from our property tax, and it seems like the one thing that's happening is it's a guarantee it's going to be a hotel, unless that LLC goes under anyway, at which point it's a moot point because...
 they're out of business. And what I would say to that is that this incentive is performance based, so it's rebate based only. He only receives an incentive if he performs. If it doesn't perform, then there is no incentive received.
 I think additionally I would just highlight once again though that the hot revenue is really huge and that's where we saw the value In looking at this amendment and then finally what Karina mentioned before the alternative really is This is a heavy cost. This is really a smaller developer a small business owner For him to take this on by himself would be very challenging, which is why the county also Came in to contribute
 So the alternative is more than likely a teardown of the building. Except he was willing to do it before with the first package that was sent, correct? Yes, sir, for substantially less cost. And there was no hotel guarantee. And substantially less insurance, too. Correct. But he's still covering $373 additional.
 Of which we're kicking back about $100. No, sir. This is after the fact. I know. It's just, you know, when you look at the net numbers, and I understand that hotel tax is a real benefit. Yes, sir. But it's hard to allocate that benefit to the taxpayer that's saying, you know, I'm paying on one end and hot tax is the benefit on the other. So I just have a concern. Understood, sir. Yeah, I have a concern with it. Representative Canales.
 yeah i think it's just important to remember too that this is this is a rebate right this isn't there's no existing taxpayer funds that we're handing over to uh the the property owner without the rehab of the building there is no revenue there you know the revenue doesn't exist and so if we're i mean he's he's covering a much bigger gap we understand that right and and we're helping to cover part of that gap insurance the insurance money that he receives is helping to cover part of that gap as well
 But if the alternative is a teardown, then we're left with essentially nothing. I mean, I think this is one of those cases where we see very clearly, because the alternative is a teardown of the building, we see very clearly a built-in ROI here in terms of future tax revenue. That's just my opinion. I think there are other knock-on effects of having a vacant lot in the middle of downtown. And –
 You know, we already have a surface parking lot next to that location. We're creating a larger and larger hole if we have a potential teardown of that building. And so, again, this is a rebate. Nothing is paid to the property owner until they fulfill the terms of the agreement. And so if the risk is low that we end up somehow in the red on this, right? Sorry, Robert, I know you're waiting there.
 I was just gonna make one comment. I thought Elizabeth was gonna say it, she didn't say it. So one of the things that we talk a lot about when city manager gets asked or I get asked, economic development's not in my portfolio, but it's a question that I'd like to address because one of the key things is that the city putting up the incentive benefits all of the entities, all of the taxing entities. So remember there's five taxing entities on your tax bill. You have the city, county, university medical center, El Paso Community College and your school district. School district makes up about 46% on average
 School districts are not participating in any of these economic incentive deals school districts are directly benefiting from these incentive agreements With this additional property tax revenue This is a rare exception where the county did participate in this deal and the DMV did participate as well But typically they do not participate on on Economic city of deals. So yes, it is the city the one that's putting up the money to do this deal But ultimately it is in a betterment of the entire entire community when you're looking at what the taxpayers are getting for this particular agreement, so
 And I understand it's a rebate, but if it's generating no property tax or we rebate all the property tax, the net to the property tax fund is the same. Because if we're rebating it all, we're still not getting any of it. And I always have a concern when I see it may double the investment. In reality, his investment went up 25%, but our rebates went up triple.
 And it just, that's my issue with it. You know, and I understand we don't want a hole there. We don't want it torn down. But that's my issue as well.
 And I'll just note that the current estimated property tax revenue is about 2.2 thousand. Well, yeah, 2200 annually. After the, and then we're anticipating during the term of the incentive agreement 67 thousand. So again, through that hot, through that sales and use tax, we're still anticipating a revenue increase over what if we just left the building as is, we'd be looking at. But concern noted. Thank you. Mr. Canales.
 Can you remind me one more time of the term? It's the same term as before, correct? It's a 15-year term. What we are doing is we are modifying the completion date. So we are giving them – the original agreement would have required completion of the project in February of this year. We are pushing it out to February of 2024 to allow them time to finish the construction and remediation. But it would be a 15-year term, so we're just bumping everything up. So it was a 15-year term from the previous date, and now it's a 15-year term from the new date. Correct. Understood. And so, again, this will be off the –
 well, not off the rolls, we won't realize the revenue gains from this for 15 years, but after 15 years then we do, as opposed to the uncertainty of what's left in an open and an empty lot and someone builds there or someone doesn't. But, I mean, I think we've seen, unfortunately, time and again in the past,
 our downtown if there is a tear down in a vacant lot very often that becomes a surface parking lot or stays vacant for an extended period of time so that's what I'm concerned yes and I'll note that the original the current agreement is in force majeure right now the property owner the developer has been
 eager to continue working on this project has been operating in good faith with us. You can see that there's construction right now happening at the front of the building. They've been doing remediation inside, but they've just started on kind of the porch structure for that, you know, those improvements near the pedestrian. And then I was also just given Representative Kennedy under the previous, well, I'll say current existing agreement, the construction.
 Estimated it was a 10-year agreement. The estimated property tax revenue to the city was $19,772. With that, I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Turner, I'm going to call you Representative Turner. Thank you. My question is simple. My representative thinks, oh, well, downtown, a blank, empty downtown lot has no value.
 I can't think of a developer that wouldn't want to rush in and build something on an empty downtown lot. And then we would have full tax revenue. I see it from a different – for 15 years. Fifteen years from now, the value of that building, let's just say it starts out at a million dollars taxable. Fifteen years from later, when it comes time for us to start getting tax money off of it, maybe $750,000.
 Maybe less. It may burn down again. I don't know, but I do know an open commercial lot in downtown is valuable, plain and simple. Tell me how many open lots that you can build on in downtown El Paso that exist. You've got one right now that I know of that people can build on. I think we're missing the point. I think you get more value by selling it.
 to a developer and then collecting full tax value on what they put billed just my opinion though thank you mr turner thank you and with that ms prime we do have a motion in the second yes mayor the motion was made by representative canales seconded by representative rivera to approve item number four on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 The motion passes 4 to 1. Representative Kennedy voting no. Representatives Andeldo Molinar Rivera Canales voting aye. Representatives Hernandez-El Cid O'Fierro not present.
 Now we're ready for call to the public. No, sir. We have one more item from consent. This is item five, and this is a resolution that the El Paso City Council authorizes a submission of a grant application to the Office of the Governor of the State of Texas Homeland Security Grant Division, grant application number 2998209 for the City of El Paso Police Department project identified as local border security program. And it was moved to regular by Representative Canales.
 Representative I was gonna say representative can always can go first if he wants. Yeah, I have a lot of questions about this And I don't want to duplicate questions for representative canales. Okay. Is it okay if I do? Yeah, you can go first Sure, go ahead Yeah, and chief I wanted to You know, I said I wanted to meet with you yesterday and I just couldn't make it happen It's gonna so that's that's my fault. But we can ask the questions now again, so
 I guess let me start where my area of concern is and then I'll work backwards from there. Specifically, I'm looking at page 7 of 13, which is the objective output and objective outcome measures. There are, just above that is the description of the activity that we intend to use that for. It's 100% of the grant funds to be used for enhanced patrol.
 And it says there, El Paso police officers will identify and target areas of criminal activities in support of the local border security program. Officers will target criminal activity involving money, weapons, ammunition, automobile crimes, gangs, narcotics, wanted subjects, and other activities related to crime. Enhanced operations will include, but not limited to, direct patrol, surveillance, gang, and fugitive roundups, counter auto theft measures, and or joint task force operations with other local and federal agencies, all in conjunction with the suppression of criminal activities.
 I'm fine with all of that. But what I take issue with then is down below in the outcome measures, one of the, well, I have issue with two of them.
 I see number of adult apprehensions transferred to U.S. Border Patrol custody made by grant-funded peace officers, target level one. And then number of minor apprehensions transferred to U.S. Border Patrol custody made by grant-funded peace officers, also target level one. So that's a goal for – I take it that means a goal for one of each of those types of transfers to Border Patrol custody,
 During the term of this grant. Yes, sir. So assistant chief Humberto Talamantes. Good afternoon mayor counsel So as far as the funding that we use for this grant we we enforce state law There's no immigration law whatsoever that's enforced. However, our officers do come across incidents like the numbers that you're looking at the total 11 adult apprehensions and
 That was an isolated incident in which officers tried to make a traffic stop. The vehicle evaded and the driver of that vehicle was transporting 11 individuals in that vehicle. So they were crammed up on the floor mats, on the seats and very unsafe conditions. But when the vehicle evaded and finally stopped, we took the driver under state violations into custody.
 But the individuals that were with him were trafficking of persons. We did not investigate or take over that case. We did, Border Patrol showed up and took custody of the individuals that were undocumented. But as far as the individual driving, we did arrest them for evading and not stopping for the traffic stop, sir. Well, and so I'm not asking about any particular incident. What I have issue with is that their outcome measures, specifically regarding transfer
 adults apprehended and minors apprehended to U.S. Border Patrol custody. When that's not in the description at all of what we intend to use those grant funds for, it doesn't make sense to me that that's an outcome measure that we specifically have. It's a specific goal to transfer at least one adult and one minor out.
 to US Border Patrol custody as a measured outcome target for this it's not what ostensibly the the goals are of this grant program it's not what it says in the funding I understand that we need to enforce state law that we sign a commitment to doing so as part of receiving this grant and that we you know we commit that if we do
 come across individuals in the course of the officers overtime duty funded by this grant that that you know will follow the procedure outlined in state law but that doesn't necessarily mean that we should have that kind of transfer to border patrol custody as a specific outcome measure a specific goal that we need to achieve or an achievable I guess that's funded by this grant program and I'm going to have trouble.
 supporting this if that's included. I don't know if, I know this is just our application. It doesn't seem to me in what I look at above that it's mandated in reading through, it's possible I missed something in all of the requirements. Doesn't seem like it's a requirement,
 to transfer a certain number of apprehended individuals into Border Patrol custody. It's just listed in the outcome measures. I don't know if these target levels for these outcome measures are something that we're proposing in our grant application or if those are conditions that are imposed on us when we apply for this grant.
 Right now I understand your concern Representative Canales. So the reason why it's only left at one for each adult and minors is because almost since 2012
 Being a border town and investigating state crime, there are gonna be occasions almost at every year that we come across at least one individual that we don't take into custody and we don't enforce. So Border Patrol takes custody of them. Like in this case that I gave you, we couldn't leave those individuals in the highway, 11 of them in a car.
 So we let them make sure that border patrol process them as far as their policies. But our police department's policies is that we don't enforce any immigration laws, and we do contact the appropriate authority to intervene in that case. Again, I understand, but in saying then we have a target level of one on each of these, we will have failed to meet our targets for this under our performance in carrying out the activities
 that this grant funds these grant funds will fund if we don't transfer at least one adult and one minor to US Border Patrol custody over the term of the year of this grant I just don't again I don't see how that jives with our intended our description of what our intended activities are under this grant or the requirements of what the what the the state imposes on us in the award of this grant
 Yes, sir. Since we don't enforce immigration laws, we do have to, per policy, we do come across, like I mentioned, a lot of our task force is going to be coming across being a border town. Unfortunately, those isolated incidents, and we do have to turn them over to the appropriate federal authorities.
 Yeah, I think we're going in circles a little bit here, but again, I understand that, and I understand that we have to commit to doing that under the terms of receiving this grant. But again, making that a measure of our performance, an outcome measure, to me is a step beyond just having to comply with state law. This is saying we have failed to meet our outcome targets if we don't transfer one adult and one minor to –
 Customs and Border Protection or US Border Patrol, I guess I do understand and the reason it was left at one because it's almost every every year Because of the activity of the task force investigating state law There's always always almost gonna be at least one isolated incident where we come across Okay, I guess then my question is can it be zero? Can these target levels be zero for in our submission of this grant application?
 I believe since we don't enforce federal law, I don't see why that couldn't be the case. Can we omit that part of the language? Yes, yes, I'm almost certain we can, and the reason I explain is historically we always do, are going to come across being a border town, but we can certainly look at that and leave it at that. I think that would be negotiable. This isn't how many do we anticipate we'll come across. This is what is an objectively good outlook, what is a measure that we need to reach?
 in order to, you know, I guess it's our own target level, but in order to say we have performed under the terms of this grant. And I think that should be zero. If we don't enforce immigration law, then we can be successful in our performance under this grant and still have transferred zero people to Border Patrol custody. We don't enforce immigration law, so I don't know why we couldn't take that out. Right. Okay.
 Is that something we would? Chief. We would be okay to do an amendment today and pass it today? Or would you want two more weeks? We can bring this item back and make sure that the granting agencies, I don't see it either, I don't see an issue that we could, we only did it because historically it's always gonna come across that type of situation, but we can always. Let us bring it back. If it's not critical, we'll just bring it back at the next council meeting and we'll check that item. And unless there's any additional items that,
 Council wants us to look at can you guys propose? To move there to bring the item back in two weeks Yeah, I mean I think staff staff can pull it to write and just write it back Yeah, we'll bring it back at the next council meeting. So can I have a motion to do that? Yeah, sure I mean Well, no because if we postpone if we postpone this it will come back with the same numbers No, no, no, we're gonna postpone it to change the language to bring it back. What you're saying. I
 What's for this we're postponing the item bring back different language just to clarify Rep Kanellis if you postpone the same posting language will come back, but the backup can it be adjusted exactly I? understand okay, okay, then I'm So what you want can get in other words what you're asking for can get done because the backup will be adjusted Okay, if it indeed is what we say it is that we can make those changes. I
 Okay, then I move to postpone this for two weeks. What is that to the 28th of March? Regular City Council meeting do have a second a motion and a second to bring that post from the item for two weeks Yes, sir. There's a motion made by if you're going to make allow additional comments. I would need Representative Kennedy to withdraw his second because then the conversation will be limited We're gonna change we're gonna bring it back and change the language. I
 sure thank you representative kennedy hi chief how are you good thank you ma'am
 You know, I'm excited to see that we're finally utilizing these grants I know that I shared this with the city manager last year It's just not the one that I would hope that we are utilizing. I mean in response to Representative can always concerns the entire intent of this grant is for Individuals to be transferred over to Border Patrol. So I think we should change that I don't think we're gonna get the funding based on it But I think it's pretty clear that that's not the directive of this council to be transferring people over I also though just like going through this grant and
 And I'm sorry, I just ran in here. And maybe because I'm familiar with looking at these grants, I have no idea what this grant is for. Like, what will you be using the dollars for? It just says, you know, ammunition, but it's a grant. I mean, you know how grant applications are. You need a full-out spreadsheet of how the dollars will be expended, and I just don't see that in the backup. Okay.
 Right. And just to address your concern, ma'am, like I said, we don't enforce immigration law. We don't investigate immigration law. And that incident in which the 11 individuals were transferred to Border Patrol, that was an isolated incident in which we were investigating state law. The individual evaded officers, and when the vehicle stopped—
 The driver was arrested. The individuals were in the highway, so we have to, border patrol showed up and they took custody. We didn't process, we can't process or enforce any immigration law. Just wanted to make that clear. No, no, and just really quick, but that's the intent, right? And so I'm really quickly gonna read off of the governor's grant website where it's,
 So for this one, the local border security program, which is right under Stone Garden, we all know what that is. It supports intelligence sharing and enhanced law enforcement presence in communities across the border region. And so it's literally to share that intelligence. I mean, the intent of this grant is to involve yourself in immigration. But sorry, go ahead.
 Well, the purpose for this fund, the funds from this grant since 2012, every year we've been receiving this grant, and it allows us to assign officers to work proactive law enforcement operations in high crime areas in the city. And what this task force does, it helps us –
 and criminal, target criminal activities involving illicit money, ammunition, weapons, narcotics, doing war and roundups from fugitives, wanted subjects, narcotics, and other joint task force operations that we have with our partners from federal and local law enforcement.
 Our main goal is to suppress crime activities with all the state laws that I just mentioned and to enhance the border security and help us maintain the status of one of the top safest cities in the nation. I understand that and I appreciate that clarification, but how? How exactly are you expending the dollars to do what you just said? We don't have the staffing to do this on a continuous basis, so this grant funding helped
 do extra officers, we assign officers on extra duty operations. And some of the strategies that we use is directed patrols, surveillance, warning roundups of wanted subjects, fugitives, like I mentioned. We use target automobiles, crimes such as auto thefts, burglary vehicles, and that's what the task force focuses on. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to ask those questions. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Assistant Chief Adelman, thank you very much. So just a couple of questions. So this grant has been utilized by our city, our police department, for the past 10 years approximately.
 Yes, sir. Since since 2012 the city has applied for and accepted this grant for for this type of law enforcement operation in ten years Would you say that results of this grant and other grants have been a positive? public safety measure for the city of El Paso and its citizens I
 Absolutely. I mean it outs our supports our Goal in there on their sub goals to keep the the city safe and address crime and in the last ten years Have we ever not met any goals or any of the objectives or anything else that we were not in compliance with it? No, sir. Never. Okay, and so do you feel that? Turning over one adult one a juvenile would be reasonable within a one-year period that we could meet that goal. I
 It's highly probable that it's going to happen. Like I mentioned, being a border city and unfortunately it's a reality, trafficking of persons, a reality that we deal with, right? So it's very highly, highly probable that's what's happened. Hence that one target level was entered there. And we saw just recently what did and did not happen with our ports of entry there where we had different migrants of whatever nationality trying to come in.
 come over to our country legally through the border and That could be used that grant could be used for operations such as that to repress crime Should they pass the port of entry and federal properties correct? Yes, you're correct Okay, and out of those people because I did see children. I did see teenagers. I did see women I saw different people different
 age groups coming over, attempting to come over, do you think we would be able, more than reasonably satisfactory, to meet the goals for this grant should it pass? Yes, sir. All right. Thank you, Chief. Appreciate all you do. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Thank you, Representative Lujan. Thank you, Mayor. Chief, I know that you mentioned that, and I appreciate you. Like Representative Molinar said, I've been familiar with this since 2012.
 and the results that it has netted the police department as the city of El Paso's benefit as a safe city. Immensely. The occurrence of having your language of local border security program, was that just implemented this year, or have you used it in the past? The local border start program? That's been the name of the task force for this program since the beginning. That has been required, is it required by the state?
 I'm not sure if it's a required mandate, sir, but I know it's since the beginning that we've applied for this grant, but I can definitely – we'll check into that as well.
 where some of the patrols did encounter, and so they called Border Patrol, which is a very common practice since I can remember back in 82. And so the thing is that this is a common practice for us to turn over a migrant who's in the country legally
 is not, you're not just putting it on there to say, hey look, I did this one and one, correct? Exactly. It's an automatic thing where we turn, or I'm sorry, I should say, where the police department turns
 These over to the proper authorities because they have to, like I said, we would like as if an officer would go and have an arrest process the individuals for identification and all that. They have the equipment for that. They have the proper questions for that. That's why we turn over the individual unless they're not involved in any criminal matter. Yes, sir. Absolutely correct. And.
 That's an excellent point that you make, Representative Rivera, to address Mr. Canales' concerns. It's very common for officers, unfortunately, it's a reality of officers that come across with undocumented migrants that are involved in crime. It's very, very common, so that's, like you said, it's very highly probable that this task force of officers working out there are gonna come across again.
 But we follow our policies. We don't enforce immigration laws. We don't investigate immigration laws. And, of course, call the appropriate authorities for that. So with that said also, isn't it, I've kept up with the numbers and, of course, from PD personnel and, of course, the media. With this grant that you've utilized since 2012, there's been some success these last year and a half, I believe, 98%?
 98 felons? Yes, sir. I have the – Yes, sir. So with this group of officers that we've assigned them to high crime areas to address this crime, state law crimes, so far this year there's been 13 felony arrests year-to-date. There's been five misdemeanor arrests.
 There's been several successes that will help that's helping us keep crime down in the city. And like I mentioned, those are the not only the burglary vehicles, the theft of vehicles, any weapons and ammunition trafficking. So being very successful.
 And I can share more statistics with you all, the city council, if you'd like, in detail. So it's been that joint effort that has successfully... Having this grant where you assign... And I believe you call it extra duty, but isn't it overtime basis? Absolutely. Okay, so... And that gentleman, again, explained it. That's when an officer is off duty and he can work this job. In other words, he's not on his regular patrol duty. He works it off duty. So that...
 This benefits the El Paso Police Department. This benefits the safest city in the country here. And so with these results, I mean, this is something colleagues, my counsel, that –
 It's done since 2012. It's much needed. There is no cash match grant The the police department hasn't been penalized since 2012 or nothing But nothing not even beyond that year, correct all these you're meeting all the requirements that are required by the state of Texas To get this grant Correct, sir I urge you to I urge you to pass this today and not have to wait because the weight does waiting will waiting make a difference
 just removing that language? It's very highly probable, again, like I said, being a border city and officers come across the situations
 It's very common. So so not only the task force officers but officers in the street, so it's very common with this migrant search We've been reporting to counsel that they come across Migrants, unfortunately, that's the few the few yeah Become involved in crime scene and I see cheap as yes on the screen. You want to say something sir? Yes, sir. So the policy of the El Paso Police Department is we do not enforce immigration law and
 But if an officer during the course of an investigation determines that somebody is in the country illegally, we will make the phone call to United States Border Patrol to make them aware. And that's been the strength of making El Paso one of the safest cities, is all law enforcement agencies work together to handle the different issues. It is not our jurisdiction, but just like they'll turn over DWIs to us,
 if we come across these types of issues. This grant we're talking about right here helps us target
 serious crimes that are occurring. We do not go out there looking for any immigration issues. We're looking for, like Chief Delamonte says, narcotics, violent criminals, weapon violations, things of that nature, and getting these individuals arrested that have warrants out for their arrest. So that's how this helps us out.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you for that clarification. Good afternoon, Chief. Good afternoon, sir. Again, I urge my colleagues to approve this today. This has been in place since 2012. It assists the police department in carrying out their duties and carrying their due diligence as to protecting this community and those that they serve. And that's very important, certainly.
 is anybody else going to speak otherwise i'll make a motion to approve sir pardon me you asked if there was anyone else to speak but there are literally people signed up to speak i know but you know if you make a motion right it's not a motion to delete you can still speak right which is representative yeah again i want to clarify i i said nothing about the the benefit i under fully understand the benefit of receiving these funds what the police department can do with with additional overtime hours
 I have one specific problem, and that is with setting a target level in the outcome measures for how many people will be transferred to U.S. Border Patrol custody. It has nothing to do with opposing anything else that's involved with this grant. If we can make the change to zero, then I plan to support it. If we can't, then I don't like setting a target level for this. I understand, again, that we have to – you are required to enforce –
 state law you're required to and and it's very likely that you will have to in the course of performing the the duties under this grant will encounter people that you will have to transfer to Border Patrol custody what I have a problem with is setting a goal for how many and that being a performance measure of our performance on this grant and that's the only that's the only part
 I know my colleagues have spoken about the benefits of this, and they urge the passage today because of the benefits. I'm not disagreeing with the benefits at all. It's just the specific issue of setting target levels for how many people we should transfer to U.S. Border Patrol custody in order to be successful under this grant, which I have a problem with. And it's just that one specific issue. So I would urge...
 colleagues either to I mean I if if they would be comfortable with with an amendment instead to just make these changes today on the floor and make the target level on both of these zero then I have no problem going forward with that today if staff would prefer to take it back and look at it and make sure that that doesn't have a knock-on effect with compliance
 or the requirements of the grant application. That was why I wanted to give them the time, just to make sure that if these change to zero, that's not impacting their potential compliance with the grant application. That's the only reason. Ms. Flores has her hand up. Pardon me? Ms. Flores from our office has her hand up.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes thank you Ms. Hamilton-Karim. I just wanted to point out on this particular part of the description the document does state that the answers that you're discussing are supposed to be about expected activities and it actually includes the word expected in all caps meaning expected. Pay attention to this word. It is not about mandatory or required. I think they would have said that had they actually meant that.
 So it's expected, not required or mandatory. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure we focused on that word. Is that expected how many we will encounter or expected target level? Because the target level to me is tied to performance. It specifically says expected activities. Expected activities of the police department. Can you just refer me to the –
 Page and paragraph if you don't mind. DIRECTOR HERSEY- It is exactly where you were looking for the outcome measure. Go up about a page and a quarter where it says project activities information page 6 of 13. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Page 6 of 13. DIRECTOR HERSEY- In the introduction it says this section contains questions about your project. Skip the next sentence unless otherwise specified answers should be about the expected activities to occur during the project period. That's the part I'm mentioning.
 Right, but that description is for the section Project Activities Information, and then the start of the next page starts a new section called Measures Information, and these tables fall under the Measures Information section and not the one with the description that says the Expected Activities.
 Correct and there's nothing different about that particular section. I think that the introduction applies to that whole section. So that introduction explains the items below. Correct. That was all I needed to add. Thank you. I mean I'm just.
 I'm trying to lay out how I feel about this. My opinion won't change on this. If we can make that zero, I will support it. If we can't make it zero, I'm not going to support it. If they need two weeks in order to make the changes and make sure that they have the compliance down, that's fine. If we can make those on the floor, and my colleagues are comfortable with that, I'd be happy to entertain an amendment on this as well. I guess that's it. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. We have Representative Molinar followed by...
 representative kennedy um no disrespect to anybody here but it's when you're out in the field as a police officer and even those days are gone for me and henry representative rivetta those days are gone for you as well but you just don't understand or you may not understand what actually does or doesn't happen in the field and so if you are make a traffic stop or even we've seen in pursuits vehicle pursuits foot pursuits
 what do you do with someone that's not here in the country legally? So if you just release them on their own, you may have already had a potential for them to commit some type of crime. And so if not turning them over, it's the best and most prudent thing to do or action to do
 We police officers have that responsibility for public safety. And so I think the representative can understand the numbers. I don't really believe we'll meet that goal. Well, trust me, that goal will be met. And I just finished asking the chief that a month has that goal been met in the last 10 years? And the answer was yes. And I mean, no disrespect to you, sir. I'm just saying that it needs to happen. There's no cash match.
 It's been in effect for 10 years. We've been made in all the goals and responsibilities for that and exceeding it probably. And so I just urge all my council members, please, let's pass it today and let's move forward. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. And this will be everyone's last time. I'll make it quick. It's not a required goal. It's just what you think the expected activity will be, correct?
 I will have to double check with the granting agency, sir, if it will affect us as far as the grant being awarded. But based on the wording that we read, we don't see that that might be an issue. But I do, if you decide to go this option, we do. I would like to check with the granting agency. It would affect our application and potential receiving that funding. Because if it's expected but not required, I would think that making it zero would not affect getting the grant at all.
 It's just an estimate of how much your activity is going to be. We're thinking the same thing. That's why we want to double check it before we answer it, because it's a $511,000 grant that we've been getting for the last decade, and we just want to double check it. We just want to be prudent about that. I was going to say that personally the two weeks doesn't blow you past the deadline, does it, on filing this grant?
 I mean, we're not gonna, it's not like we can't make the decision in two weeks and still be in the window to get the grant. He's double checking. I think we still have a, verifying that to see when we have the deadline for the application submittal, sir. Okay, so to me, I think you could get support up and down the line if it's able to make zero, and if it's expected activity. Nobody here is saying that you shouldn't enforce the laws.
 you already got a policy on you don't enforce immigration laws. Yes, if you do run into that situation, you take the correct action.
 I would say I'm in support of let's take the two weeks, make sure that we're okay with the grant, it's not going to blow it out. So we make the decision then correctly knowing what the results of that is. If it comes back and says if it's zero, you're not getting any money, then I think I'd be comfortable knowing that before we take the vote. Is that your motion if the first motion fails? If the first motion fails, I would say yes.
 you don't echo what representative Canales said is that we come back in two weeks and we see if that would void out the grant or not and then if it's if they say they don't care it's an expected activity it's not a goal it's not a required caveat then I think you find support all the way across the board here so I would make a motion that you come back in two weeks we find that information out which I presume city manager probably will have pretty quickly
 or legal when they have to and bring it back that would be my motion if the first motion fails if I could add yes sir thank you we have till Friday to submit this grant till this Friday yes so we can we can look we can do an amendment to change it to zero if it's allowable
 We can proceed at least something so we can apply because Friday is the day otherwise we miss the opportunity by this Friday Sure, which motion do we take first miss Frank? Can I withdraw my motion? You can withdraw your I'll withdraw my motion So I make a motion to amend to remove or to amend the numbers to zero that we've discussed if possible in the grant and
 so if we find so we find out that it doesn't affect the the grant then we'll put zero I think is what I'm hearing and if it does we will leave it as is I just butchered what the chief so eloquently recommended but but that's what I just said you agree with okay I'll second that what if the first motion
 would a little bit longer help if we tabled this till the end of the meeting and you bought a little time to understand the impact i'm just just trying to make sure we give we give you every every bit of time that you need to double check to see if it'll affect our grant application sir it's 5 43 in austin yeah it's a little late now huh anyway so um ms pinewood motion are we taking now the amendment sir okay there's the amendment did you get a second on the amendment
 Okay, so can we take the amendment now there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo seconded by Representative Kennedy to amend the grant application to change the target level from One to zero and I'm not sure in which fields no she said if possible Correct. Yeah, if possible
 If it's not possible, then... Well, it is possible to amend it. No, no. Obviously, you can amend it, but if it's going to hurt you from getting the grant, then you don't want to amend it. That's why she said if possible. I know you can amend it, but if it's going to say you amend it, but you're guaranteed not to get it, then that's why she said if possible.
 So with that we have a motion. Is that, can we make that kind of conditional amendment where an amendment only applies if something else happens? Well, we need to take this amendment first. No, no, I'm asking a legal question. Is it possible to make a motion that it's approved if possible to change it to zero and if not it's approved without the change? Yes.
 I am yes yeah yes you can make a motion that is conditioned upon a factor that we can that staff can understand so if your factor is change the numbers to zero if that does not affect our ability to get this grant
 they can determine, they can call, if they can determine that it will not affect, so they can make that determination by calling the agency tomorrow and asking the question of whether putting zero will render our grant application less, lower rated, will lower the rating for the grant application. So if council moves, it takes that motion and passes that motion, chief can call tomorrow and ask for that information.
 I will say that grant is kind of saying if you expect to have border, have these issues that the chief explained, that's a part of the condition, that's a part of the reason that the city is in the runnings because we have those concerns in this location. So it may affect the quality of the application.
 It's always it's there's always a couple of cases a year that that happens I think that what what we said earlier is if we put it to zero and find out that that doesn't affect the outcome Then we'll submit it like that. If it does affect the outcome. We'll leave it as is is that acceptable to the council? Yeah, and I would like written follow-up but by I guess Thursday before the grant is submitted, right and
 Just let us know what way we're going. Yeah, we wouldn't be able to change the outcome either way. We would just not. We'll send it to the entire council when we find out. Yes, sir. Absolutely. All right, Ms. Pryor. Okay, so if I understand correctly, the motion is to amend the grant application to change the target level from 1 to 0
 on the number of adult apprehensions transferred to usbp custody and the number of minor apprehensions transferred to usbp custody is that correct on those two if possible if it will not impact the rating for the grant award yes ma'am is that correct i'm sorry mayor proteman i can't hear you
 I mean, I'm just concerned, like, how are you going to determine if it's going to impact you? You're going to call Austin and say, if we don't deport people, is this going to impact us? The entire point of the grant is to do that.
 Well, they would tell you if it's part of the guidelines. If it's part of the guidelines and they say you remove it, then you don't qualify, because those are the guidelines to apply for the grant. If it's not part of the guidelines to apply for the grant, then you're more than welcome to remove it, and that's what they're gonna tell you. So if it is, then you leave it. If it's not, then you take it out, but that's what they're gonna tell you. Okay. I didn't recognize you without your glasses, Chief. Thank you. Just had a conversation with our grant writers here at the headquarters,
 and going to zero will not affect the application. Okay. Okay, so then I amend my motion. Thank you, Chief. I'm sorry, I just don't wanna keep dragging this on. I amend my motion to leave the motion as it is, but take out the part as if it does not impact the grant.
 Since we have authority, that it won't. So the motion. Thank you, Chief. Yeah, thank you very much for the clarification, Chief. Appreciate it. The motion is to amend the grant application to change the target level from 1 to 0 on the number of adult apprehensions transferred to USBP custody and the number of minor apprehensions transferred to USBP custody. Is that correct? Thank you. From 1 to 0 to change the target level from 1 to 0 on the outcome measures for the number of arrests
 I lost my place. On the number of adult apprehensions transferred to USVP custody, and the number of arrests, minor apprehensions transferred to USVP custody. So changing the target level on those two fields from one to zero on the grant application. Yes sir. So on the amendment, call for the vote. Are you having trouble with the voting? He said aye. Okay, and your vote is aye, thank you.
 in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. This is for the amendment. Representative Hernandez-Salcido, Fierro not present. Now there was a motion by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar, and this is to approve as amended. Thank you. On that motion, call for the vote. This is to approve as it was just amended, correctly? That's correct, to approve as amended. Okay, thank you. Where's your coat? Come on, man.
 No, the voting session is still open. In the voting session, and the motion passes 4-2-1, Representative or Mayor Pro Temanillo voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. I'm sorry? We're all just losing our minds over here, Ms. Prine. I'm sorry. We are not going to have side conversations. Thank you, Chief. Would you like to reconsider? Oh, I thought that's what you were talking about.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you, that brings us to. Thank you, Chief. Chief, thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Motion passed. Thank you, Council. Thank you. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 31 to 34. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Canales to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 31 to 34. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Salcido, Fierro not present. That brings us to item number 35, and this is discussion and action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to notify Sierra Machinery, Inc. that the city is terminating contract number 2021-0742 Volvo, Gradle, and Doosan parts and service for convenience. We have a motion.
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Kennedy, to approve item number 35. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Salcido, Fierro not present. The next item is 36. 36.
 And this is discussion in action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue purchase orders to Sierra Machinery, Inc., the sole and authorized distributor for the 2023-0157 Volvo, Graydoll, and Doosan parts and service. Go ahead, ma'am. I know this is a contract they're renewing. We're canceling one and renewing another one on this. That's correct.
 But I don't, so I don't understand. So we just canceled the contract for $400,000 with Sierra Machinery, but now we're approving the same contract for $320,000 more? Gretchen Garcia, Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. The reason why we're terminating the existing contract is because the expenditures have already been met, and we're establishing a new contract. For additional scope? The backup is just not really detailed to understand that. Okay.
 Yeah, it doesn't have any reasoning. Okay, so, and the life of the new contract? It will be for three years. Okay. And the one that we just declined, so all of the parts were purchased? How long was that for? The current contract was for two years. I guess I'm just wondering. Okay. All right. Thanks. Thanks.
 Just for future if you could like put more of the backups There's an understanding and or brief us on something like this because the backup just doesn't say anything I'm sorry Yeah, just to clarify then there was a it was a contract with a maximum of four hundred thousand dollars We expended all four hundred thousand dollars. We're terminating the old one and Awarding a new contract with a new ceiling essentially spending Okay
 In fairness, Reverend Ellis, sorry to call you out. They did say something yesterday. Okay. Yeah. But, okay, no problem. Thank you. I apologize. I wasn't here. I completely forgot that meeting even happened yesterday. It's been such a long day already. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Canales to approve. Item 36 on that motion, call for the vote.
 But also that's why we should put stuff in the backup in case someone misses the agenda of you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez-Salcido-Fierro not present. Item number 37 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2023-0087, McNeely's Parts and Service to McNeely's Financial Inc., DBA McNeely's Truck and Manufacturing Company. There's a motion made by Representative Fernandez.
 Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Item number 38 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title IX, Health and Safety, Chapter 9.4048, Public Swimming Pools and Spas. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve. Item 38, there's no public comment.
 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez-Salcido-Fierro not present. Item number 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting to Jessica Soto Prado and Hugo Prado, DBA PS ads, a non-exclusive franchise for waste containers on sidewalks and other city property. Move to approve. We had Miss Turner sign up to speak, but I believe she left.
 There's no other public comment. Motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez, Salcido, Fierro not present.
 Item number 40 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform planning, public engagement, and urban design services on a task-by-task basis by and between the city of El Paso and six firms
 Collison RTKL Inc., Asakura Robinson LLC, Kimley Horn and Associates Inc., Surrounding Studio LLC, Able City LLC, and MEND Collaborative Inc. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 40. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes 4-1. Representative Kennedy voting nay.
 representatives anelo molinar rivera canales voting aye representatives hernandez salsido fierro not present item number 41 is discussion in action to approve an amendment to the city of el paso's 2021 2022 annual action plan in order to add the home investment partnerships american rescue plan allocation plan there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative canales to approve item number 41
 On that motion, call for the vote. Did staff want to present? We're ready to go, sir, if you want. Okay. Appreciate that. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Cernandes, Salcido, Fierro not present. There is a motion and a second to adjourn the City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the City Council meeting for Tuesday, March 14, 2023, is adjourned at 5.02 p.m. Thank you.
 Thank you.