Diana, how are you? Are you ready for us? All right, we're ready. Good morning. Good morning.
 This is the El Paso City Council meeting for Tuesday, March 28, 2023. It is 9.05 a.m. President presiding is Mayor Leaser. Also present in council chambers are Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Fierro Rivera, and Canales.
 And now, if everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation to be delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Joe Mervada. And good morning. Good morning, sir. If you would like to pray with us today, we ask that you let us bow our heads together and let's call upon the Lord. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness and your mercies to us. We thank you for this day and the life and strength to be of service to you and to this community.
 We pray for peace upon our city and its residents. We ask for comfort for the grieving, strength for the weak, a voice for the voiceless, and peace where there is discord. Today we ask that you bless our elected and appointed officials as they conduct the city's business. We ask that you bless them with wisdom and understanding as they hear, read, and discuss, and make decisions on the issues impacting this city and the lives of its individual residents.
 Grant them discernment for the challenges and difficulties as they seek to make El Paso a better place to live, a better place to work, a better place to start and raise families, and a better place to retire. We look to you for guidance and direction and may your presence permeate not only this meeting, but our city and our community.
 And finally, we ask that you would bless all our first responders and their families, that you would keep and protect them. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Will the police department please lead us in the pledge, please? In the United States of America, consider it public for which it stands, for the injustice of our people. Thank you all. And I thank everyone for being here. We are very blessed today to have...
 champion high school basketball, which is one of the best in the state, which is great to be. But we also have
 El Paso's finest. And, you know, we talk about El Paso's finest, which is our PD, and I look around, and we're not just El Paso's finest. We have the finest men and women that protect our community day in and day out in the state of Texas and the U.S. And I want to thank you all for always being out there for us and making El Paso, as you said, a better place to be and a better place to live. Thank you all, and God bless you all.
 I want to have a moment of silence.
 Let Representative Vanello start, and then I'll finish that out. Representative Vanello, Mel Pratt-Tem. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to take a second to recognize my former staffer, Laura Montoya. Yesterday I attended the funeral of her husband, who died unexpectedly. And so I just wanted to add her, her 9-year-old son, Max, her 2-year-old daughter, Mila, and her husband, Marco Montoya, into our moment of silence.
 Thank you. And also, you know, we've had some horrendous tragedies within our country and no one worse, nothing worse than what happened yesterday in Nashville. And this needs to stop and there's no some buts about it. And, you know, to have a moment of silence, we're doing it too often for young men, young kids, teachers.
 And, you know, I want to have a moment of silence for the families, the kids, but also let's pray that it never happens again. You know, the Nashville Police Department responded and did a really good job. But, again, it's something that we never need to see again. And also 39 migrants in our sister city lost their lives last night.
 And we need to keep them and their families in our thoughts. So please, we have a lot to think about. And then as we look around in this room, not only a lot to think about, but a lot to be proud of and a lot to be happy for. So thank you. Thank you all. God bless El Paso and may God bless every one of you. Mayor Pro Temp or Diana.
 Mr. Mayor, we do have three proclamations. The first one is Child Abuse Prevention Month. Go ahead and start with the child abuse prevention over this month. Proclamation by the City of El Paso. Whereas there were 4,817 completed investigations and 1,519 confirmed victims of child abuse and neglect in the El Paso area in fiscal year 2022, and whereas there
 were 1,692 youth served by DFPS prevention programs in the El Paso area in fiscal year 2022. And whereas child abuse and neglect can be reduced by making sure each family has the support they need to raise their children in a safe, nurturing, and healthy environment, and by informing families about community resources and services available,
 that could help prevent a family crisis or help them overcome one and whereas preventing the child abuse and neglect is a community responsibility and finding solutions is contingent upon involvement among people throughout the community and whereas our community has taken proactive approach in the prevention of child abuse with the with the formation of the coalition of prevention of child abuse that is compromised and
 comprised rather I'm sorry comprised of over 70 agencies organizations schools daycare centers and businesses that are actively involved in preventing child abuse through education and advocacy now there therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as child abuse prevention month and that April 8 2023 shall be known as go blue day signed by the honorable Mayor Leaser
 Good morning. Mr. Mayor, can I quickly make an announcement? We have over 450 people in teams. If I may ask that everyone please mute your microphone so that we don't hear any background noise. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Good morning.
 family and protective services and all of those in our community who work in child welfare we extend our sincerest thank you to mayor leaser representative rivetta and city council members thank you for declaring april as a child abuse prevention month every day dedicated employees at dfps and many other agencies serve to protect children from abuse and neglect
 and to ensure positive outcomes for many families. We hope these efforts can provide children the stability and the care they deserve, as well as strengthen families. We are dedicated to educating our community on these issues and we know that prevention is the key to success.
 El Paso community provides essential support to families foster care services and adoption education to change the lives of children We again are grateful for your support and the commitment of partners in the community together. We make a difference. Thank you Thank you very much and you know we really need to protect our youth and you know the they are the future of our country and our community and I
 Child abuse and children are abused some of these scars will never be healed and it's so important that we protect them And we prevent it and you know, we have to be proactive because at the end of the day once they're scarred it's really hard to overcome so I thank you for what you do and You it's so important that we continue to love and hug our children and make sure that they are brought up in a safe community So thank you for that Thank you. Thank you
 Next proclamation is Tyler Cooper and Christian Lugo Day. Thank you very much. By any chance, is either the students, Tyler Cooper or Christian Lugo here, or their parents? Please come up to the podium. Any school administrators from Andrews High School? And Chief Binkley and Mrs. Binkley, if you could come up too. Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas Mr. Martí Vega, a World War II veteran,
 95 years of age lives at on sun valley drive whereas on december 1st 2022 looking out from his living room window he observed something shiny in the street in front of his driveway and whereas preventing his daughter to get a nail in her tire he decided to pick it up himself whereas by the time he bent down to pick up the nail in the busy street of sun valley he realized that he did not have his walking cane and unfortunately fell hitting his head on the concrete whereas speeding vehicles passed too close to him which made him
 coming to panic, thinking one of the vehicles was going to hit him. And whereas fortunately, a white car with two young men, Tyler Cooper and Christian Lugo, ran to his aid, moved him to a safer location, attended to his head wound, called 911, and stayed with him until his emergency units arrived.
 Whereas if it had not been for these two young men, Mr. Vega would not have been fortunate to tell this story. And whereas the City of El Paso recognizes Tyler and Christian for their heroism and generosity. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that March 28, 2023 shall be known as Tyler Cooper and Christian Lugo Day. Signed, Oscar Leaser, the Honorable Mayor of the City of El Paso. Good morning. Let's see what I've been saying all morning long that
 The youth is a feature of our city and our country and you guys just made that saying true because you are and for your what you did and
 and how you help somebody is very admirable. And I know this is a proclamation, but I know that you have many thanks and I know the family's here to thank you for what you've done. And we thank you for being part of our community and making El Paso shine. Thank you. Keith, would you like to address the podium? Well, I don't really have much to say.
 Was like it's just something that everybody should do it's like it's like we were just practicing I don't know like due diligence to be good people and it's like I would want somebody to do that for my family You know that old saying treat people the way you want to be treated you'll never be disappointed. So thank you for that Mayor we do have we do have a chief being clean Department morning chief. How you doing? Good morning mayor City Council. I
 I am Robert Binkley, Mr. Vega's son-in-law. On his behalf, I would like to read this. As a 17-year-old inspired to defend the life and liberties of this great country, I experienced the heartbreak of war and the elation of a homecoming. As a World War II veteran, I am in awe by this community's response to the heroic deed of these two young men. Tyler and Christian have been recognized for their compassion and bravery by the El Paso Independent School District,
 Andrus High School, KVIA co-anchor Hillary Florin, and the Military Order of World Wars, receiving the Youth Merit Medal, and today by this mayor's proclamation. Thank you, El Paso. Thank you, Mayor Leaser and city council members. I am truly humbled and honored. These two young men were heaven sent. They are my heroes. As in scripture, heroes help those in need. Thank you. Matilde C. Vega. Thank you, Chief.
 You know, Chief, I had the honor. And by the way, this is Mr. Vega's 96th birthday. I know. I was just going to say I had the honor to sign his 90th birthday card. And then 95th. And today I got to sign the 96th. So it was an honor back when he turned 90 to sign his card. So thank you all again, and thank you, Chief.
 The next proclamation is National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. And then also, if we may ask that all the honorees stick around so that they can take pictures after the proclamations. Thank you. Whereas the City of El Paso, Texas recognizes the professionalism and excellence of public safety telecommunicators who answer 9-11 calls daily.
 Public safety telecommunicators are the first first responders providing the initial and most critical contact our community has with emergency services and Whereas public safety telecommunicators are essential to the safety of police officers firefighters and paramedics by monitoring their activities via radio providing them critical information and ensuring their safety and
 And whereas public safety telecommunicators ensure the prompt response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics to protect life and preserve property. And whereas the City of El Paso, Texas is committed to providing the highest quality emergency communication system to the citizens in our community. And whereas each public safety telecommunicator exhibits kindness and understanding to citizens seeking assistance.
 And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that the week of April 9th through April 15th shall be known as National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Hi y'all, congratulations. Good morning. Hi, I'm Nadia. I'm a fire dispatcher at El Paso 911. Thank you city council for inviting us here today. It's an honor to be given recognition as telecommunicators for Telecommunicators Week.
 El Paso 911 is comprised of many hardworking individuals, and being a telecommunicator is not easy. It can be fast-paced, stressful, but at the end of the day, we do love our job. What we do is for the love we have for our city, in support of all of our first responders, and to help our fellow citizens. Thank you again. Thank you.
 And as we know that every second makes a difference and by the job you all do, we thank you for what you do and continue to keep us safe and you know as the chief will come on up, chief, that will tell you communication is key to making sure we do the right thing. So thank you again. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council, Chief Killings, El Paso Fire Department.
 I just want to thank you for this proclamation and recognizing the hard work that these men and women do every single day, 24 hours a day, in support of first responders across the city of El Paso. The men and women that are standing in line in this room today can't do their job without
 these men and women that are standing behind me doing theirs they keep us safe they make sure that we get home to our families and they're there they're that voice behind the scenes 24 hours a day seven days a week that that we rely on to provide services to the community so i uh these telecommunicators hold a special place in my heart and um they're doing a fantastic job day in and day out and i appreciate them so thank you thank you chief
 You know, Chief, you talk about communicating and keep you all safe, and they're also communicating on the other line with, you know, whoever's sick, a victim or anything else, to make sure and assure them that help is on the way. So it's very important. So thank you all. Would you like me to proceed with the consent agenda? Yes, ma'am. I don't know if you wanted to do 20 and 21. No, let's do 20. Which one do you want to do? 20 and 21. Let's do 20 and 21. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 and then i would like to do i know my representative had none of this is pushed uh 29 so i'd like to do 29 right right after those two okay item 20 is discussion in action to congratulate and commend the chapin high school boys basketball team for being the first team in chapin's history to make the elite eight hi y'all do you want to come up to the podium
 It is my honor to recognize Chapin again. This is the second year we're recognizing them, but I would love to hear about the history of how far they've gone. I know this is not the second year they've made it this far or to the finals. I also want to, before I read the resolution, I did not mention last year and I want to recognize my staff member, Matthew. I don't think that he played basketball. He is a Chapin alumni.
 And he's always very proud of you all, and he's always rooting for you. So we've got a lot of Chapin love in our office. With that, I will read the resolution. And it states, that was not a joke, y'all. Either you're mean. Whereas the Chapin High School's boys basketball team made it to the regional one to five A basketball tournament for the third straight season in 2023. And whereas the Chapin Huskies controlled the action from start to finish during their playoff game during the El Paso Bel Air to win their third straight by district championship.
 Following that, they beat Palo Duro High School in Seminole, Texas, winning their third straight area championship. Then followed up that win with a victory against Parkland High School at the Don Haskins Center to achieve a third straight regional quarterfinal win. Then, after the victory, for the first time in school history, won a regional semifinal game against Fort Worth O.D. Wyatt.
 And whereas the Chapin boys basketball team made it to their first regional championship game, the Elite Eight, as district champions and went undefeated against all El Paso teams during the season with a 52 game win streak against El Paso teams. And whereas the 2023 Chapin boys basketball team was ranked 18th in the state by the Texas Association of Basketball Coaches.
 And whereas in District 1-5A, Senior Bryson Goldsmith was selected as the most valuable player, Junior Brandon Himes was selected as Defensive Player of the Year, Idelius Coleman was selected as the first team all-district, Jayden Leverett was selected as second team all-district, Peyton Parker was selected as third team all-district, Diego Villanueva and Julian Pacheco received honorable mentions,
 And whereas on March 4, 2023, after falling to Mansfield Summit High School in the Region 1 Championship for Class 5A Texas High School Basketball State Playoffs, the triumphant Chapin Huskies basketball season ended with a 30-7 record under head coach Rodney Lewis.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso, one, commends and congratulates the Chapin High School boys basketball team for being the first team in the school's history to make the Elite Eight and making the state tournament for three years in a row.
 Two, recognizes the many achievements of the coaches and players of the Chapin Huskies. Three, recognizes the fans of the Chapin Huskies and the people of El Paso for their dedication and support. And four, respectfully requests that the city clerk submit an executive copy of this resolution to Rodney Lewis, head coach of the Chapin High School's basketball team and the Chapin High School administrative office. Approved this 28th day, March 2023, and I should actually make a motion to approve on that.
 And so we're really excited to have you all here again, excited for next year. I know we're going to go further and we will be having a big parade for you all when you bring that championship home.
 we're grateful to be here and thank you um i usually don't use microphones i'm sorry um i want to thank my coaching staff and our players and our admin mr cervantes from episd athletics our superintendent and everybody that supported us but i i've been speaking on this um as a coach i really don't like to do this because i know it takes the players to do this so i brought my five seniors to speak on this thank you
 Can you state your name for the record, please? I just told him that, so now I've made an error. Rodney Lewis, head coach. Hi, my name is Diego Villanueva. I'm a senior here at Chapin. I just want to thank you all for the recognition. I mean, it's amazing to be up here for the second year in a row. And honestly, without you all, like, we honestly couldn't be here right now. At the beginning of the season, you know, doing community work, you guys truly give us something to play for. So, thank you. Thank you.
 My name is Bryson Goldsmith. I'm a senior. I'd just like to thank, you know, the coaching staff. And, you know, I'd just like to say that my guys are, you know, we're not just great basketball players. We're great students. We're servant leaders. And we do a lot, you know, off the court. So, you know, I just want to thank the guys. Thank you. My name is Idelis. I want to thank the coaches. I'm glad I got to play.
 If anyone's in the meeting is in teams right now, please mute and turn off your volume. My name is Jeremy Casaveda. I want to thank y'all for everything, and the coaching staff and my teammates. My name is Eli Rodriguez. I just want to thank you guys for letting us be here and thank the coaching staff and the players for accepting me since the day one I got here, and they push me every day to be better. So you want to come back up? I know it was kind of not you. Yeah, we actually...
 We couldn't hear a word you said. We had a lot of background. My name is Idalis Coleman. I'm a senior. I want to thank the coaching staff and you guys for supporting us.
 Thanks for that And I do want to you know It takes a lot of great ball players and it takes a lot of talent to reach the Elite Eight but without great coaching and a staff that can have players play together and become one unit and respect each other and That's what coaching staff makes and that's what they do and they get you all to get the best in
 You all that make sure that they bring out the best and then that you all play as a team So coach, I do want to congratulate you and your staff because you know, we talked about mentoring we talked about you know the impact that We make on on the youth and it's very important that coaches can mold Individuals and help them in the future of their lives. So I want to thank you all for all the coaches for
 bringing these this team together to play us a team and understand that There's you know, and just by listening to y'all you talk about that There's not one person that got you to the late elite eight But there's a lot of you that were able to do it together as a team and that's why it's called a team sport and you guys took the eye out of team and make sure There was no I in team. So
 I want to thank you all for representing El Paso, making El Paso proud, but also for carrying yourselves in a professional manner and doing what you did to bring, you know, this recognition, not only to Chapin, but to yourselves. And I wish you all a lot of luck in the future. How many of you all are seniors this year? All seniors? Well, Coach got his work cut out, huh? All right. We'll be back.
 No, congratulations again and an incredible achievement. But again, congratulations for playing as a team and bringing the recognition to El Paso, but again, to yourselves. Thank you for doing what you do. And again, thank you, Coach, and God bless every one of you. And we do have a motion to approve by Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you and the motion has been approved unanimously. Next item is item 21, discussion and action to approve a resolution in honor of Cesar E. Chavez Day for his contributions as a world renowned labor and civil rights leader. Mayor, I'll go ahead and start. On June 22, 2022, the city council approved March 31 as Cesar Chavez Day.
 as a city holiday. Friday, March 31st, the city of El Paso will make history in honoring and observing Cesar Chavez Day, the legacy of Cesar Chavez himself. Today I will ask council, as I make a motion to approve, to honor this legacy of Cesar Chavez with a unanimous decision. Second. The resolution is as, whereas, could I have the people, oh there they are, I'm sorry. Whereas Cesar E. Chavez,
 Cesar was an American born on March 31, 1927 to Mexican immigrants and proudly served the United States Navy. And whereas Cesar was an American farmer, worker, labor leader, and civil rights activist who with Dolores Huerta co-founded the National Farm Workers Association that later became known as the United Farm Workers Union.
 Whereas for 30 years, Cesar tenaciously devoted himself to problems of workers in America, the movement he inspired succeeded in raising salaries and improving working conditions for foreign workers in California, Texas, Arizona, and Florida. And whereas on March 28, 2014,
 President Obama used his authority to proclaim March 31st as the National Cesar Chavez Day, a day devoted to the promotion of service and to the community in honor of his distinguished lifetime work and for what he's taught us about making America a stronger, more just, and more prosperous nation. And whereas local organizations like SEIU
 Sin Fronteras Organization Project, Lincoln Conservation Committee, Cesar Chavez Academy, and Service Employees International Union Texas coordinate a variety of activities to honor Cesar's work and invite the community to use that day as an opportunity to serve others. And now therefore be proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of El Paso that March 31st, 2023 shall be known as Cesar Chavez Day.
 Thank you. I would like to thank Mayor Leaser and the entire City Council for honoring SEIU Texas today. As many of you know, the contract for about 1,500 HCA health care workers here in El Paso is up in May. Raising the minimum pay to $15 an hour is one of our goals. I'd like to think that if Cesar were alive today, he'd approve of the fight for 15 and he might even march with us.
 You might wonder why so many healthcare workers who make more than $15 an hour are willing to fight for those who make less. Well, I'll take a quote from Mr. Chavez. He says, We cannot seek achievement for ourselves and forget about progress and prosperity for our community. Our ambitions must be broad enough to include the aspirations and needs of others for their sakes and for our own.
 Thank you again for the honor. Si se puede. Thank you. Your name for the record, ma'am? Ma'am, your name for the record again? Diane Waldo. Thank you. And it's...
 When President Biden came, he brought somebody that I'd been working with quite a bit to help us with the asylum seekers. And actually, every time we needed resources, every time we needed help, we would call Julie at the White House. And we've been working really hard with Julie to come to and assist us. And she did an incredible job of helping us and making sure that we had the resources that we needed, whether dealing with – she works for Homeland Security and –
 I um so when she was down here with President Biden she came in with him and stayed a day and and I was sitting there talking to her and Estrella Escobar asked her she said let me ask you a question
 are you related to Cesar Chavez? And she goes, yeah, that's my grandfather. So it's a small world, and she's been very impactful in helping us here in El Paso, and we have a direct line to her to help us whatever we need, and a lot of the things we've seen that we've been able to get, whether it's funding and help down in El Paso, she's been very instrumental in helping us. And again, like I said, she happens to be the granddaughter of Cesar Chavez, so it was kind of,
 of need to have the opportunity to meet her and that she's been very helpful to El Paso and I'm sure the rest of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. And we do have a motion to approve made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido. And polling is open. Representative Anello? Thank you. And the motion has been approved unanimously. Mr. Mayor, would you like to do the consent agenda?
 Let's do item, I'd like to do item 29. We have a lot of people here for item 29. I think it would be very respectful to do that for them. If I may, Mayor, I'm sorry, Laura Cruz, for the record, if we can take photographs first so that folks can. I want to do item 29 first. I'd like to get a picture with them also, if you don't mind. Okay. Thank you.
 Then we'll move on to item 29, and that is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign the articles of agreement between the city of El Paso and the El Paso's Municipal Officers Association for the contract period covering September 1st, 2023 through August 31st, 2027. Motion to approve. So, Council, this particular item was something that was made possible because of the...
 financial position that we now have. I know in 2014, we only had nine days of operating capital, which is in our fund balance. An organization this size needs to have at least 90 days. That's the gold standard. We're at 91 today. We also have a rate stabilization fund in place. We also have a pension stabilization fund. And we also mentioned yesterday that,
 in an effort to pay for this that i recommended to our staff to start working on a pay for futures fund so that we could pay ahead of schedule in next year's budget for these particular costs the collective bargaining agreement was
 in the month of February. We completed it early March. And the first year in 2014, the cost will be approximately $14 million. In the second year it'll be 6.1. In the third it'll be 6.3. And in the fourth year it'll be a little bit under 5 million for a total of 31.5 million over the course of the four year period.
 For the police officer, this means a 13% increase. What's not included in the collective bargaining agreement is a $10,000 increase to the cadet pay during their police academy time. So that'll bring them from $37,000 to over $47,000. After they complete the academy, they'll get a 13% increase. They also have a $1,000 bonus prior to becoming a police officer for the academy. An advanced officer will get 13%.
 A senior police officer will get 15.4%, and then you also have an increase of 17.1% for the sergeant position. We also added steps for those that were topped out. Lieutenant pay goes up 5%, commander pay 3.5%, assistant chief 2.5%, and executive assistant chief 2.5%. That's a new position title created because we're growing as a police department.
 All of them have varying cost of living adjustments that range from 2.5% to 5%, depending on the rank and depending on how much the increase was in terms of the pay. We also included a buyback provision for sick leave in order to discourage sick leave usage, and we also decreased the cost of health care in this particular agreement. Again, we were able to put together a strong...
 collective bargaining agreement because we're financially sound, we're financially solvent, and this was very necessary in order to recruit new officers in order to also retain the officers that we have in the organization right now.
 And finally, had we not placed the 300 net officer position program in place approximately seven years ago, we would be in a much worse position today in terms of the numbers. From 2014 until today, we're over 130 positions net additional officers, but that's still not enough because during the early 2000s,
 The numbers reduced significantly during that same time period. The population increased significantly during the base realignment commission, during the BRAC timeframe when the City of El Paso grew exponentially and the Eastside grew in particular. So this is why it was important to do the 2019 bond package, to do the Eastside Regional Command Center.
 and the fact that it's gonna require more than 300 officers. And I sent an email report to all of you that indicated we probably need to be in the 350 to 375 number of officers that we need to shoot for instead of the 300. So we need to readjust the 300 plan for that purpose.
 So that in essence is a summary of the collective bargaining agreement. You received a report. I sent you an email, a report on this subject, gave you a copy of the contract, the red line version as well, as well as the cost associated with this particular item on the agenda.
 I can answer any questions that you might have, but otherwise that concludes the report. I will add one more thing. We had a strong team working on this. The budget office, I wanna thank them. I wanna thank also Chief D'Agostino. He helped with the wording on some of the policy changes that were made, and I also wanna thank the collective bargaining agreement on the police side.
 They had at least 20 people at each meeting, and they did a very good job on their end negotiating this agreement. So unless there's any questions, that concludes the report. Well, I want to thank you, thank the team, and, of course, I'm sure it was an easy decision to make with such a great police department that we do have in El Paso. And, again, I want to thank you all for serving our city.
 and for being out there day in and day out. It's important in the job you all do and like I said, you know, we call it El Paso's best but I think it's a lot further than that. It's Texas and U.S. best and you all, I couldn't thank you enough for the job you do and I know that it was passed at 99% of the officers that got to see it and vote on it which may
 makes me happy that our men and women in the police department feel like their city leaders in the city of El Paso believes in them and takes care of them. I can tell you that I do believe in you all, and I'm glad we're taking care of you because you take care of us day in and day out and give us that opportunity to be safe in our community. So thank every one of you guys. God bless you and congratulations. Representative Vanillo, followed by Representative Nunes and Representative Molinar.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mayor Procter, I'm sorry. My apologies. I want to say, you know, at this council we've had a lot of conversations. We took action, I think, at last council meeting to look at increasing our hourly wage to $15 an hour. We have SEIU talking about their fight for $15. I think a lot of times people forget that the police union is a labor union.
 I'm a big supporter of labor and I think it's really important that in this contract we looked at and succeeded in getting increase in pay and getting our police department to a level that is really important. I think a lot of time people really don't focus on the fact that police are a labor union, right? It is really important to be negotiating the work that you all do at a fair wage. And so I want to say congratulations on that. Mr. Gonzalez, I do have some questions for you.
 little bit more on the administrative side in 2020 so about exactly three years ago council directed you to work with outside organizations on kind of public's requests and I think what came back to us was the community's interest in an independent oversight committee you worked with the team you came back to us at Council a year later and said that was going to take some amendments to the collective bargaining
 I don't see any of those in this. This has been the next collective bargaining agreement since you all approached us with those changes, and so I wanna know kind of what happened to those negotiations and those kind of suggestions that were brought to council.
 So when we did some work with the community, we engaged the community, we did a cross-functional team, and we reached out to several groups in our El Paso community, and we got all the input that was necessary. We also gave a report to the city council relative to what other cities did and what they did not do in relation to review boards and things of that nature in order to give input to the police department.
 So we gave the council that we also gave council information relative to how the community is involved in that process already I don't recall that the council voted on making an actual change to that. We did have some dialogue about that There was no changes To any of the administrative side of it in order to make it more I guess
 more Concerning to the Union so that was really based on us listening to their side and what their concerns were in terms of the national discussion about police departments, so I
 We didn't make any changes like that in the agreement. Again, I don't recall that there was an actual directive to make that change because we did indicate that there was already public input in that process that we currently engage in. Okay, so I have community members coming to me that thought they were talking to you in good faith.
 this agreement has now been settled and they need to wait four more years how am I supposed to respond to them in the fact that their concerns in regards to this were as they feel ignored unacknowledged and and not proceeding forward in any way for another four years I would say that we do not ignore the community input and that that's already built in with the review process it was processes that we have in place right now
 and we feel like that is significant currently in terms of the way we do that process currently, and we didn't feel like there was any additional changes that were necessary based on the fact that we did engage the community. We did that for over a year,
 in the cross-functional team. And with respect to any additional input, like we said yesterday, with the police chief hiring, we are going to go out and visit with all the different groups and get their input relative to what they see in the next police chief. We're also going to engage law enforcement agencies to include the police union and get that input as well before any final determination is made on that.
 the selection of a police chief. Well, and I would just say that I respectfully disagree, and I'm very disappointed for the public that those things were not acknowledged. Your office came back to us and said, these are the changes that'll need to be happen. At no point did you tell us you were not negotiating that, that you were not moving forward with this. I'm going to support this because I think it's great for our police, and this is a great contract moving forward for our union and for our officers, but it's not a great contract for our community.
 And I just want to state on the record that I'm disappointed for our community members. I'm very happy for our police, very happy to support this. But I think moving forward, you know, when you talk to a group of people and say, you know, this is what needs to be changed in the contract, and then you negotiate the contract, don't let them know that's happening. Don't tell them that you're not moving forward with them. They are going to feel like they did not get negotiated with in good faith.
 And so for those community members, I believe some of them are signed up today, I wanna sincerely apologize to them and let them know moving forward, and I'm sure the police department would agree and then new police chief and interim chief would agree that working with our partners are extremely important.
 And I think moving forward throughout the next four years of this contract, that is going to have to be a real priority for this council and this department. But I don't want that to take away from the success of this contract. And I don't – again, I'm fully going to support this and want to congratulate all of the officers here. Your work is very important. You are a labor union. I am in full support of labor unions, and I am happy to move forward.
 with increasing your pay for the deserved labor that you do. So thank you all so much and congratulations. If I may, Council, with all due respect, I do not recall the Council giving me direction to make that specific change. Also don't recall that the report that we gave to the Council is consistent with what's being discussed right now. We have that report. We gave that report in public. I'm happy to send that report out again to you, to the police union as well. It was not indicative of making that kind of significant change.
 Again, we do include the public in input currently in terms of reviewing processes that the police department has, the review board as an example in terms of a shooting review board. And we do involve the public. We have an academy as well for the public. We also have a volunteer program, the volunteer and patrol program that we just created.
 we also work with all the different neighborhood associations with all the different different regional command centers I'm happy to send that report out again I believe Dion Mack gave that report and again I respectfully disagree I do have that report I do not need miss Mack to come up here I would like to end this conversation and move on there are other people here to speak there are officers waiting I've stated my opinion and so I understand but I want to make sure for the public and for the council that we did not
 disregard the public's input as a matter of fact we have that report and this Mac is is able and willing to speak to it right now I don't want to have information on something as important as public safety and that's important to this community as important to this council and is important to this administration
 I don't appreciate you saying that I'm giving you misinformation. I remember the report, and as I said, there are members of the public here that are signed up to speak, and I will let them do so for themselves. Let's move on to our next speaker, please. And for the record, Mayor, I did not say that Ms. Anello has misinformation. I'm simply saying that I just remember what we gave in the report and what we recommended. And again, Ms. Mack is...
 able to speak to that right now because this is an important subject no and i thank you for for that i'd like to move on to representative hernandez followed by representative molinar thank you sir
 Thank you, Representative. Mayor Pocan. Hi, good morning, everyone, and welcome to all the police officers and members of the association. I, like you, we have questions, and we'd like to clear up some of the statements today. I would invite Mrs. Mack to come up and Chief Basias to share any information because we want to advocate for transparency. We want to give you the information. And so if there's additional information that you can share, Mrs. Mack, please come up and
 and share that with the public. Good morning and congratulations. Good morning, thank you so much. As you recall, we had a PDCFT that worked for more than two years. We worked with the community discussing a variety of projects and things that were going on throughout the city. We did more than eight presentations to council. We did do a thorough analysis of the different types of review committees that we have worked on across the city.
 across the country. We also provided some short-term analysis and things that we would be able to do in the short term. You may recall that back in May, we had Border Network here with us, providing a presentation on what our next steps would be.
 We did talk about a two-tiered approach to how we might look at this. We did share with council and others that in order to do some of the changes that were being proposed, it would have required a charter amendment.
 as well as changes to the collective bargaining agreement. In the meantime, what we did was continue to work to strengthen our existing DRB. We have an application process that's been developed and I will let Chief Basias talk a little bit about how we've integrated the people that we have on the committee to include members of the board of network.
 Good morning Mayor, Councilman, Chief of Police. So like Ms. Mack said, for the past two years through that CFT that was set up by the City Manager's Office to review the policies and procedures of the Police Department, we
 We spent countless hours working with the public. Border Network for the Human Rights Organization took a very strong lead as an organization in El Paso. They went through a training session that took all day, and then they spent a good part of an afternoon reviewing our discipline review board process.
 procedures from those meetings and all those hours of hard work we now have two members of the border network of human rights that do sit on our discipline review board so our commitment to working with the community is strong
 regardless of the organization we sit down talk listen there's things that we can work through there's there's laws regulations that we have to go through the union works with us also it's all a synergized approach to making sure that the police department is working with the community and working with the directions that City Council asked the city manager to do so we we did that
 We continue to try to work and improve our processes within the police department and our commitment to the community Will never waver. Thank you, sir. Thank you chief for Coming up, but thank you for your leadership and continuing support for our community. So I thank you for everything you do and You know and I'll congratulate you in front of all the men and women here with the police department well deserved
 Position as our interim chief and thank you for continuing to lead our community in our city. You are the best. Thank you, sir Thank you. Thank you chief. I see us And so I wanted to highlight some of the reasons why this is good for our community I disagree with some of the statements just mentioned I wholeheartedly believe that our community is safer thanks to the men and women in uniform and thanks to your bravery and sacrifice because I know there's a lot of personal sacrifice with your families and
 So here are the facts. 99% of the members of the association who voted, voted in favor of this.
 In recent history, that's unprecedented. Lessons learned from the early 2000s during, excuse me, 2015. I know we have some firefighters in the room who are supportive. These conversations could certainly go bad very quickly. And it could be in the hands of the voters today, but because of the seamless transition
 with the leadership here, but also you all operating in good faith, coming to the table with trust and confidence with our city management. You all were able to fight for and collective bargain for the benefits for your families. So you all should be very proud of your leadership. We've stayed in constant communication every day. They've gone above and beyond, including the team, have gone above and beyond what is required.
 We didn't have they didn't have to do more public engagement. They didn't have to come to the table with generous offers. But we recognize the challenges within the police department. And I think in good faith, you were all able to negotiate a good a very good contract.
 IT'S VERY HARD TO NEGOTIATE WITH MR. GONZALEZ AND I THINK OUR UTILITIES AND OTHERS WOULD AGREE THAT HE'S A REALLY GOOD NEGOTIATOR. BUT BECAUSE OF OUR FINANCIAL STANDING, WE HAVE BEEN PREPARED FOR THIS. WE HAVE BEEN SAVING ADDITIONAL DOLLARS IN OUR RAINY DAY FUND. WE HAVE DONE THIS DELIBERATELY.
 so that we can come to the table in good faith to offer salaries and benefits that are going to help elevate our community and make it safer, quite frankly. The other thing is that in 2025, the city of El Paso reported that 422 of you are ready for retirement. And, you know, with having a workforce of 1,100 to less than 1,200,
 That's really similar to where we were at decades ago. We don't have enough officers and we need to keep in mind to have retention and to have growth in the police department. But that's going to have to come forward with a council who's willing to bring those benefits to you all.
 We've looked at the salaries or cost of state. We've recognized that your wages are lower. We wanna be competitive because when you go through a 10 month training academy, not only is a property taxpayer paying for that, but we wanna be able to retain you here because we know that our local folks understand the challenges of our community and you all can better serve our community than folks who come out of our city into our city. So we are very much, the community is very much in safer hands
 having this contract in place that is going to grow our workforce. I wanted to thank the city management for your hard work, negotiating in good faith, understanding what the challenges are for the next 10 years.
 I get afraid sometimes when you hear about mass shootings we talked about this morning. I'm afraid of the gun incidents have increased, crime has increased across the city. We wanna make the police position a profession of choice again. We wanna elevate our department and work in tandem with our department instead of against. We're not here to work against with you all who sacrifice your time and night
 to make sure that our streets are safer and our community is safer. It is because of you that our community has been one of the safest cities in the country. And I thank you and I applaud you and I have deep gratitude for your support to keep our community safe.
 Yes, there's going to be some folks who likely don't agree. And I think there's work to do. It doesn't preclude any member of this body to bring forward an item on the agenda and give more direction to the scene manager. That hasn't taken place. What we have done today is we have agreed to
 Fairly compensate the department and give you the benefits that you deserve Because of all of the the things that you do day and night to keep us safe So I want to thank you on behalf of our office and to be half of our constituents And I'm looking forward to supporting this today On this I did want to make a comment with respect to the the pay that you mentioned in terms of preparing for it. I
 Two things. One, it's not the same kind of environment a police officer has to work in that they used to work in 20 years ago. So it's a lot more challenging. We took that into consideration in terms of the safety, not only of the community, but the safety of the officer.
 And now in every pay category against their peer cities, it's either one or two in terms of pay, in terms of the ranking. We were in the third or fourth level, that was the philosophy, but the reason the philosophy changed this time is because of the numbers you mentioned. The 422 that can retire, we did a drop program before
 in the last collective bargaining agreement, but again, we needed to be more aggressive because we need to grow the department. And I mentioned the 300 plus program that we put in place. Had we not put that in place, we'd be struggling even more today. But make no mistake, today's challenges of the police officer is a lot more dynamic than it was 20 years ago. So we took all of that into consideration in negotiating this agreement.
 thank you very much mayor leaser so it's a very good day for the city of el paso to the men and women of the el paso police department i salute you to the sacrifices that you make each and every day whether you work a graveyard shift an evening shift a day shift if you're behind a desk if you're out in the field doing taking calls for service if you're doing investigative follow-up
 following up leads, whatever you may be doing out there, you need to come home safely each and every day. I want to make sure that you get compensated fairly, correctly, and justly for all your work. As I look around, I see certain people that I do know, and I see certain people I certainly do not know, but that doesn't matter. You wear a badge, you wear a gun, and you do the right thing each and every day. So thank you on behalf of my family and the people of District 4. I will be voting yes for your contract. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Moulinard. Representative Kennedy. Just to start with, I'm supporting this item. You are El Paso's finest, well, and Jerry. I couldn't resist, Jerry, okay? First of all, as a citizen, I say that because, you know, the joke is who are you going to call, and you guys are the ones we call, okay? Last time I saw this many cops, my neighbor called about a party at my house, so it's good to see you guys in a better situation than that.
 I will say that as an attorney, and I am a criminal defense lawyer, so I've seen some of you in more contentious situations than this, but there's always been a respect. And the statement that I've made to other criminal defense lawyers is the one thing about the cops is they're not going to lie to you. You know that if you ask a question, you're going to get the honest answer, no matter which side of the dais you're on. I obviously have some friends here in this room also, and I think that...
 I've come to know better by having friends that wear badges, some of the tests and challenges they have to go through. I actually did read the whole thing, just so you know. Obviously, 10 of your guys didn't because they voted against it. But I actually have read through this whole thing, and I sent a copy to a friend of mine who is a union attorney out of town.
 So I'm comfortable with it. I want to thank that it's bottom end loaded for those that are coming out of the academy. When you can make more money at a big box store than wearing a badge, there's an issue. And when you start seeing the attrition of people that come out are not even filling up the retirement slots, that's an issue. And we're a safer city when there's more badges on the street, and I think that's what this does. I think that the conversation I've heard before is...
 there may have been less communication between this body saying exactly what we wanted and instructions it's hard to follow instructions when they're not given and they should have been given you know saying this is what we want I would ask going forward the next time we have one of these that we make sure that we as a body are very clear on how we want the process to be because it's hard to follow a process when you haven't been told what it is I will say ultimately
 this contract makes El Paso safer it is bottom-end loaded which I want to thank you for city manager I mean that's that was one of my biggest concerns in coming into this office was that we make sure that we're starting to fill from the bottom so that we don't have to lose it all off the top when people are retiring or they're they're leaving the firm I will tell you that I am
 From a union household, my grandfather was vice president of the AFL before it became AFL-CIO. And you guys did a good job protecting the officers on this. And I think the city did a good job in understanding exactly what it needs so that you guys can do your job. And obviously I'm going to be supporting this. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez and staff. Thank you.
 uh, police union members, president and vice president, everybody involved in this contract negotiation. Today is historic, historic. A contract signed within the timeframe that it was expected to, and with our police officers getting paid what they deserve. Let me tell you what, for those that kind of doubt, these officers that most of them I know wear their hearts and their souls on their sleeve just to serve the community.
 give up time with their families, precious time that you'll never get back. So your negotiations are a fantastic way for the city to say we appreciate you, we love you, we love what you do. The thing is that, you know, having been a police officer and you all being officers yourselves, you know there are a lot of doubters out there, a lot of doubters that don't need you until they need you. So...
 which again mr gonzalez everything else has pretty much been said uh you know how strongly i feel about the police department i think it's one of the best in the nation and to continue that uh retention is important equipping you guys is important equipping uh the department with the new technology is just as important as keeping you all here today again i thank you so much for for agreeing to this and uh
 I guess Representative Kennedy said it best, we could sleep better with that contract that was negotiated. For him to approve it, wow, it's amazing. Thank you. And so...
 Say thank you again to mr. Gonzalez and staff and now it's us for us council to finish it by approving this council By approving this motion today Mr. Rivera the staff was Bonnie Cordova in the budget office as well as Nicole Cody Robert Cortina's and chief D'Agostino Excellent again, I can't thank you enough
 And I know when Ms. Mack was there, she helped out quite a bit. Everybody, Chief DeAgostino was there. And so, I mean, I can't say enough. These men and women deserve what they're getting today.
 Ms. Neiman also reviewed the contract with Eric. If I could, if I would be remiss, members of council, Eric Gutierrez, who's our police legal advisor, was thoroughly involved as part of the team. The red lines that you all received were done by him and he was a part of that team, as you all know. Our contracts are reviewed by all lawyers in our office and this was Eric's first crack at a collective bargaining agreement, but he was very excited to be part of the team
 Really is instrumental to to the work that you all see here today. So thank you Well done because I did read it front to back did a good job so highly approved by Attorneys and everybody else that read that thing that contract and so again, I thank you all so much for Doing what you did
 to compensate our police department and give them the equipment and the pay that they deserve for the many sacrifices they do thank you thank you representative uh
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Mr. Gonzalez and staff for all the hard work. Also, Eric Gutierrez, which is the lawyer that actually took the first stab, which I think came out with really good wording. I want to thank you all, men and women here that are with us in blue, that make sure that El Paso continues to be a safe city. I know that this contract is going to ensure that we are more competitive, and I know that that's one of the biggest issues.
 And I know that this is going to grow our workforce. Public safety is one of the biggest concerns of District 5. I am very happy to see that there's going to be a regional command center and that many of you will probably be there or we're going to be adding some badges to that unit. So I'm looking forward to better response times. I know that it's not.
 You all's will not wanting to it's just it's hard right we didn't have the the center point So I think we're finally there I think I know that I've heard a lot of you can retire and that a lot of you held on because of Chief Allen and I really hope because you believed in him and he was a great leader but I really hope that this new agreement is enough for you all to also keep and
 going with the force, keeping El Paso safe, and for you all not to retire. We wanna continue to grow our workforce, and at that point in time, that'd be a great time to retire, but we're looking to work forward so that we could continue to be safe, and I wanna thank you all for everything you do, and to continue to keep our community safe. Thank you so much. Thank you, Representative Salcido. With respect to the response times that you mentioned, I did wanna make something clear for the public, and two years ago, we barely got,
 at the number we were at 20 years ago, from that two year ago period. So in 2020, 2021, we barely got to where we were in 2000 in terms of the number of officers that we had in 2000. So that's not on them. That's the fact that there was a severe decrease in police academies in the early 2000s, and the numbers were going down, not up, while at the same time we were growing as a population. So that is the reason, again, why we do have challenges with response times.
 Thank you, and I want to thank you all. We're going to take a call to the public, and I think there's two callers signed up.
 There's actually four people signed up to speak. Okay, before we do that, I do want to thank you all. And, you know, whether there's a difference in council, and there's supposed to be a difference in council, whether it's part of the process and procedure, and I think the union will know that, that when you sit down at a table, there are differences, and you come to an agreement, and one of the things, I'm not supposed to count votes, I'm not counting votes, but I think it's going to be approved. And I think you got the support, and it...
 Council has the right to voice their opinion and have a difference, but at the end of the day, it's what's the end result. And the end result will be that we're supporting our police department and the union and the hard work that you all have been doing, and we'll move forward with a new contract. Like I said, I'm not supposed to count votes, but it's looking pretty good up here.
 Anyway, I want to thank you all, and I don't think ever any disrespect is ever meant to you all. It's just, again, the process and procedure is the only, you know, what we talk about, not the great job you all have been doing. So I wanted to make sure you all know that, and I'm very impressed that I have Commander Ruti out here from the Sheriff's Department. I have Chief from the Fire Department and the head of CLEAT and the union head from the—
 Sheriff's Department that's a support we need and that's a support and this is how we talk them. Well, they grew a mustache I can't recognize him but mr. Thompson's over there This is the unity that our city needs for success and we can talk with one voice and protect and act with one voice This is success and I think we talked about it when we talked about the Chapin basketball team
 how they united and played as one. This is no different. It's a lot more at stake, but it's no different than what we're talking about. We all, you know, are here for one reason, and that's to protect the citizens of our community, whether it's sheriffs, police, and fire. We all represent the same people, and so do we up here. And you all are
 you know who we're here to and i think represents how seal said it's one of our most important public safety it is our most important it's our number one responsibility to our community to make sure that they are protected in their shape so thank you god bless you and uh i think i had representative canalis come up and then we'll take public comment thank you mayor um i'm a big supporter of organized labor uh in my wearing my other hat and my other employment i'm an elected union rep
 I'm in the 13th month of bargaining for a collective bargaining agreement. So I commend the negotiating teams on both sides, from the association and from the city, for knocking this out quickly and coming to an agreement that I think works for both parties very well in the short space of the month of February. I just wanted to address, I know, I'm looking at the minutes from the,
 June 8th 2020 work session meeting item 10 was presentation and discussion on the El Paso Police Department's community engagement efforts this was it was during COVID it was a virtual meeting I wasn't on the council yet but I was involved in this meeting and I remember how it went of course this wasn't posted for action there was no action taken to give direction to staff
 I do think the conversation that day implied that there would potentially be some changes made before this agreement came up. Obviously, we're here three years later. Point of order, Mr. Canales. There were further items after that. Just want to be very clear. Refinella, I'm very – this isn't a back and forth. I was about to say, Refinella, I'm very happy to work with you. I think I agree with everything you said.
 Awesome. Now back and forth here, Mayor. I agree with what you said. I really would like to work with you on a lot of the changes that you discussed. I think that moving forward, I will still be at the very end of my term, but I will still be in this seat when this agreement expires in 2026. And I think that there is going to be some space to make some changes before then.
 And I welcome the engagement of all of the council, but especially I know Rep. Anello, this is a topic that interests you a lot and I think we can work together to get to some of these things and to give clear direction to staff to make sure that the community remains engaged and we can work on some of the things that were discussed back in 2020 and since then. That's all. Congratulations again on, I think, a very good job, like I said, from both sides and I plan to support today.
 Thank you. Diana, please. Thank you, Representative Canales. We do have four members of the public who will be participating via Teams. It's Carmen Rodriguez, followed by Alan Lizárraga, Irma Cruz, and then Samantha Singleton. Ms. Rodriguez, star six to unmute your microphone. You have three minutes. Ms. Rodriguez, are you on the line? Star six to unmute your microphone. We'll move on to the next person.
 Allen Lee Sarraga. Allen Lee Sarraga, are you on the line? Star six to unmute your microphone. Mr. Lee Sarraga. We'll move on to the next person, Irma Cruz. Miss Irma Cruz, are you on the line? Star six to unmute your microphone. And last person, Miss Singleton, are you on the line? Star six. Hello? Who's this again? Hello, Irma Cruz. Miss Cruz, you have three minutes.
 Good morning, everyone. My name is Irma Cruz, and I'm with the Border Network for Human Rights.
 And I'm here just today to support the work that the police do. I think it's very important for us as a community. And we call them when we need them. And we are happy to have them to support the benefits that they got today. It is important to so they can develop a better work.
 and to have the necessary training and everything that they need to do a good job. But I think it's also necessary to have accountability when they do their job.
 I want to feel safe when I call the police and know that everything will be okay and we will be resolved well and not with excessive force or even worse with the death of a family member, as we have seen in some other cases. And this is why I believe that an independent commission should be added.
 to investigate and monitor and also do the necessary corrections so they can perform a better job. So we know that everywhere there are bad apples, but if we don't do the necessary changes, that will continue to grow. We believe that there has to be an independent commission to see and...
 and know that it's going to be corrections to the department. I think it will be better for the community, for the department to be better, and also for the city. Let's not forget how much the city has spent over the years in lawyers and law firms, defending sometimes the indefendable.
 So that's why I support the job that they do, but also to include a commission that review their actions. Thank you very much. Got it. So we'll try this again. Carmen Rodriguez, if you still want to speak on item 29. Ellen Lizárraga or Irma Cruz. I mean, I'm sorry, Miss Singleton.
 If you're on the line, start 6 to unmute your microphone. I don't think they're on the phone. It doesn't seem like they're on the line. So let's take a... Ms. Singleton just said she's on the line, but she can't unmute. Will you try calling her again? Who again? Ms. Singleton. Oh, and I think that someone else is there as well. People keep getting kicked off, just FYI. I keep getting messages. Yeah, we have over 537 people on Teams. Yeah, that's a problem. We do have quite a few people, and I was noticing. Yes.
 Hello, I'm here. This is Samantha Singleton. Okay, you have three minutes, ma'am.
 Thank you. So yeah, there has been an issue of and I've been kicked out a couple of times. But however, good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Representative. My name is Samantha Singleton. I am the policy director, as well as the police accountability task force for the border network for human rights. So I want to, you know, very quickly state that there was a pin placed
 in the cross-functional teams work. And we've not gone back before council since May or June of last year to present the additional recommendations in regard to the disciplinary review board. We believe that there are some challenges within the internal process
 and procedures that are taking place, and there needs to be more accountability. Secondly, I'm only aware of one individual that sits on the disciplinary review board that represents BNHR, so I'm very interested in knowing who this second individual is.
 You know, I understand that everyone needs a salary increase because the economy is increasing and everything. But as the nation struggles with common sense police reform, there's an opportunity for the city of El Paso to be proactive and set a model that other cities can follow.
 Improved salaries should also mean improved policing, which include transparency, such as emphasizing policy, procedure, data, information and decision-making is open to the community, accountability,
 where one person is responsible for his or her actions and oversight, creating a structure for an external oversight, such as an independent accountability commission. To say that officers do not lie is an inaccurate statement. The internal policies that exist within the police department today is for the protection of the officer.
 An officer's duty is to protect and serve their community. So when the Internal Affairs Department can take their time to process alleged abuses and or misconduct of an officer, allowing the time to expire and no disciplinary measures take place with the officer, it says that the internal system is broken and therefore changes do need to be made.
 immediately. This is factual information as my son was abused by El Paso Police Department and Internal Affairs did not take the statement until four years later.
 An internal affairs officer stated to me and my son that the officers that were involved gave a completely different statement than what my son gave. But due to the time expiring, there were no disciplinary measures that could take place. That is a broken system. So to say officers don't lie is inaccurate.
 So as city council representatives, if you would stand. Thank you, Mr. Hilton, your three minutes are up. And again, I'll try Carmen Rodriguez or Allen Lizardaga. If you're on the line and you still wanna speak on item 29, please start six to unmute your microphone. I don't think they're on end. Let's take the motion. We have a motion and a second. Let's take the vote. We do have a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate Mayor Rotem Molinar to approve
 On that motion, call for the vote. Polling is open. Representative Salcido. And the item has been approved unanimously. Thank you. Come up, sir.
 Mayor, to be clear, there needs to be a change to the charter if we go any further than what we did. We did everything we could in terms of what we were instructed to do within the bounds of what the charter stipulates. So I believe that item was voted down by the council. I just double checked with Ms. Mack. I just wanted to be clear that whenever the council as a body gives me direction, it gets executed and it happens. So we respect the entire body of the council
 respect the process and just wanted to make that clear to you and the entire council thank you mayor no it's time to congratulate every one of y'all for being here but also what's the exact number of police officers on men and women we have one thousand one hundred and nine officers well we want to congratulate every one of them even a couple that voted against that they got a great contract and you all deserve it and congratulations to every one of y'all and thank you for your leadership and and filling in as
 Vice President and doing an incredible job. Thank you for representing. Yeah, can I say just a few words? Sure. So my name is Sergeant Victor Vela. I'm the first Vice President for the police union. During the contract negotiation, I was actually the interim president, also the contract lead. The men and women behind me, we've been preparing for this day for over a year now. So that when we did go to contract negotiations, we would go with plausible data.
 to compare us with other cities and our size and our manpower, womanpower. And I think they did a wonderful job. They did not get paid for this. It's 10 people out of 1100 people that carried the load for this apartment.
 And I want to thank each of you. And I think a lot of you can relate to law enforcement because as hard as you work, you're never going to please everybody in your, as far as your constituents. So you too feel the pain that we feel at times. And we really appreciate all your support. We appreciate the city manager and his contract team.
 We didn't get everything we asked for. We didn't ask for a lot. As police officers here in El Paso, we're not greedy. We just thought it was time that we get paid for what we're doing and to keep the retention of the officers that we're losing and to entice more officers to join our force. And as Greg Allen always said,
 candle loses nothing by lighting another one and that's why we wanted to keep the senior guys we have so they continue to mentor our young officers that we can continue to be a great city thank you I thank you for the negotiation but I think
 This gives us a great platform for the future, and that's what's really important, not only in contract negotiation, but also for the men and women that will be in our police department. So thank you, and thank everyone that's here, and congratulations again on a great job. Mayor, motion to recess? Hmm? Motion to recess? Motion to recess. All those in favor? All those opposed? And if we may ask, reconvene the regular city council meeting of March 28th,
 All those in favor? All those opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 11 a.m. If we have one item on the revisions. So I'm going to make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 17, item 57, delete per planning and inspections. Page 18, item 58, postpone two weeks per Representative Anello. Is there a second? Second.
 So 57 is being deleted, 58 is being postponed. We do have a motion to approve the consent agenda as revised. Motion made by Mayor Pro Temanello, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve the consent agenda, and the voting session is open. And I apologize. Can I actually add another thing to that? Okay. Can I move item 25 to the front per Representative Manello? Item 25...
 To the forefront. Representative Hernandez, are you okay with that revision? The voting session is open. Representatives Salcido and Rivera. And the consent agenda has been approved as revised. Mr. Mayor, do you want to take item 25 that was moved to the forefront? Item 25 is an update to City Council on the implementation of Grace Act resolution. Good morning again.
 Peter Pacilla, interim chief for the record. Item 25 is an update on the grace resolution that was passed in January of this year. It meets goal two, safe and beautiful city. Next slide, please. A little background on June 24th of last year, the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.
 June 16th of 2021, Governor Abbott had signed House Bill 1280 from the 87th regular legislative session which took effect statewide 30 days after Roe v. Wade was overturned. And on January 31st of this year, City Council passed the GRACE Act resolution. Next slide please.
 This is the actual House Bill 1280 that was passed by the Texas legislator. Next slide, please. Constructively making it a criminal felony act for a medical provider to perform an abortion in the state of Texas. Next slide, please. Here's the council resolution that was passed in January of this year, directing the state
 city manager and staff to develop a police policy in relation to the law that was passed by the Texas legislature. Next slide, please. And this is our policy that has taken effect within the police department. The city attorney's office helped us develop this policy. It reflects what the resolution said for us to do. And in instances when
 The violation of the state statute is reported to the police department. The police officer would have to report it all the way up to the chain of command, up to the executive staff. Next slide. I'll open it up for any questions that council might have. Mayor Potem. Thank you, Chief Pesillas, for providing this policy. It's really helpful. Excuse me. I think, you know, a lot of the questions that people have kind of about this policy that we passed and that other people are passing is,
 What is the police officer's role? And I think that's something that's very unclear in the law that's been passed by the legislature. The idea is that we don't know who would be enforcing this law on the state level, and so that's why we kind of came to you all and said I think it's important that
 we make a statement to people that may be traveling through El Paso seeking health care, alternate health care outside of the state, that this isn't a place that they need to worry about being penalized by the city police. We don't know how the legislature will address that this year. I know prosecutorial discretion is a concern when it comes to these kinds of issues. So, looking at your policy, I just...
 want you to kind of be clear for somebody who might be watching this trying to understand what that direction is. So if an officer gets a call, this policy says they will not act on it. They will call up to their supervisor who will then bring it through the chain of
 Yes, ma'am. So like any crime that's reported to a police officer, this is this crime or this statute in the state Health Code makes it a felony. So if an officer is made aware of a crime they have to make a report With that they have to notify the chain of command and it has to go all the way up to the chief's office Where to proceed from there, but we are required as state peace officers to enforce all laws Where does that information
 kind of sit once it goes all the way up. And I guess you know where I'm going with this question, right? But is, if you know the state ever asks for that information, are they, you know, will we give it to them? So...
 All reports that the police officer do is in a record management system. That's where all this information would be kept as far as it goes. That's where, whether it's a misdemeanor or a felony, that's where we keep all our information. The detectives investigate all their statements. All those documents would be sent over to the district attorney's office or it could be the appropriate prosecutor to follow up if they wanna prosecute on the case.
 Okay, so we are sending this information over. Yes, ma'am. Okay. I mean, that's helpful, right? I think that looking at this, the GRACE Act was the first step. We need to be kind of understanding how we're protecting that information. I know you're saying by law you need to send it to the district attorney. We have not, you know, the...
 the prior district attorney, I know individuals reached out to get a statement from her. I don't know what that has been with the new district attorney. But again, I think that the concern that the public should have is with the removal of I can never say this prosecutorial discretion being removed by the state. And so but I'm just I'm saying all of this kind of for public edification, putting it on the record is that by law, you all have to send that over to the D.A. But that is the only.
 action that you will be doing is recording that and sending it over? It depends on the investigation as far as it goes. If the investigation doesn't result in any suspects or warrants for arrest or anything like that or us sending over the case.
 non arrest and then the district attorney's office would make a determination if they're gonna take it before grand jury that's all up to them so I guess part of the grace act that we passed that you're putting in here is that we would not be following up with an arrest and we would not be following up with an investigation so trying to understand kind of how this language that you have on slide seven is reflective of that action so
 An investigation can go one of two ways if you have a suspect. We can actually place somebody under arrest with a warrant signed by a judge, or we can send the case over to the district attorney's office as non-arrest and leave it up to the district attorney's office to decide if they want to take it before. But I understand that the action of a counsel is to not do those things. So you're telling me you will still do them despite the action of counsel? If, if.
 If the law is broken and we have suspects in any case, whether it's this case or any other case, and we can prove the elements to a probable cause to get a warrant signed by a judge, then it's our duty and obligation to enforce the law. So you're saying that despite counsel action, you will still pursue individuals who are seeking abortion? Not people seeking. That's not what the law says. But that is what the policy that we passed that you are following...
 So I'm just trying to understand how council action is reflected on this policy. What was said in the resolution is people seeking
 abortions, the law doesn't even address those individuals. So that's not something we would even look at. But it also says surveillance of any electronic surveillance device, hardware, or software that is capable of collecting, capturing, recording, retaining, processing, intercepting, analyzing, monitoring, sharing audio. Basically, you're also talking about keeping a database when this, of individuals who are either assisting in or seeking an abortion when the exact language asks you not to do that. No, we wouldn't be doing that.
 But you just said that you would be keeping through the database. If a police officer is made aware of a crime, in this instance, the House Bill 1280, then the officer has to make a report. It is a felony. As the statute addresses it, they'd make a report, and then it goes through the chain of command on the decisions to be made on the investigation, whether they go forward or not on the investigation. But it is not...
 This does not go to somebody who is seeking an abortion. The statute itself talks about the medical providers. Chief Basias, Viken Stibben, Mayor. For purposes of also what I believe Mayor Pro Temp is referring to is the request that this be considered a low priority.
 So the reason that the policy is written that way, Mayor Pro Temp, is that the police officer that is receiving the report of the crime would then follow the chain of command, right? And then those decisions would be made in terms of a priority that it is placed on that type of investigation versus other investigations that the department is handling. So there is a vetting process that's been built in in regards to the direction that the council gave in regards to the lowest priority. So that is how it's being built in.
 Does that answer your question? It does. So I'm just looking at what Austin had reported out when they passed this. And so my concern is that the database that we're keeping. And I know you're saying that you legally have to do that, but I just want to read kind of what they reported and see how you can kind of analyze that based on what you are all providing us.
 So it says ATS EMS is not required in any ordinary course of its operation to report information about a reproductive health care act that is received as a result of providing emergency medical services. Those are kind of the things that are missing from ours, is how our EMS is being used.
 attaining that information and helping individuals? Are they participating with the police department in that? And I guess an example, if someone is ODing, EMS will go out and then a police report is filed. Those are the kind of things that we're looking for here. What is our process going to be? If someone needs to acquire medical services, right, and it's...
 revolving around either an abortion that has or will happen, how will PD respond? Will there be a police report? Those are kind of some of the things that I would want to get more in depth with. I understand this is just kind of the policy, but there are other incidences that can happen that could involve PD, and that's what I'm not really seeing in this presentation on how we're laying out those policies.
 So whether the reporting party is a family member, FMS, a doctor in an emergency room, or things of that nature, and we get called to that incident, the officer has to determine what, if in fact any penal code violation or any statute has been potentially broken, then they would initiate a report if they believe that there has been a criminal act involved. It goes into our RMS, our record management system,
 and then it's reviewed by whether it's a regional command investigative unit or headquarters investigative unit would look at it depending on how it's routed and they would conduct the investigation further from there to determine hey, is there actually a
 a crime that was committed. So the reporting party can come from any one of us, a paramedic, a doctor, a nurse. And that's the concern with the law, and I guess it's you're saying that this report will come in and it'll be up to the individual and how far they're investigating. My understanding... No, ma'am.
 So once that officer gets the information that potentially involves this policy and this House Bill 1280, then that officer is required by this policy to start informing the chain of command immediately. But at which time an investigation could happen? Exactly.
 It could happen, but it's going to be depending on what we have. We have to make decisions at that point. I can't give you a blanket statement, yes, we're going to do this, or no, we're not going to do this. Well, and I mean, I just feel like that's what the council action was, and so I'm just a little concerned that we're not proactively making a statement to support this action from council. But I thank you for the presentation. I know that there's another update, I do believe, in June. It may. So I'd love to sit down and talk to you about it further before that update. Okay. Thank you.
 i still i think we need to make sure that we can't take officers discretion away and that's something that's really important when we talk about enforcing the law here and you know and i understand what represent uh mayor pro tem saying but we still have to allow police officers to have discretion and understand what and follow and obey the law and as counsel we have
 made a directive but again at the end of the day we didn't make a directive to make sure that we don't obey the law of the state of Texas or the city of El Paso nothing that's really important so I mean I think it's up to the city attorney's office to work with everyone to see how we can move it forward but again not violate the law
 the city of El Paso or the rights of anyone so we understand that and we'll continue to work with that because again discretion of a police officer cannot be taken away. Representative Canales. Thank you mayor I'll say at the risk of getting a reputation that I'm just the guy who reads things out loud I want to read the whole thing out loud I think just for the public you know we didn't we didn't go through it
 in detail and not everybody is accessing the backup. So if you'll bear with me just for a minute, it's one page, I wanna read this out loud.
 Grace Act guidelines. The purpose of this policy is to provide the guidelines for the Grace Guarding the Rights to Abortion Care for Everyone Act for the El Paso Police Department. It is the policy of the El Paso Police Department that, except to the extent otherwise required by state or federal law, department resources including, for example, funds, personnel, or hardware, will not be used to a create any record of any information,
 related to an individual seeking abortion, miscarriage, or any other event that could be prosecuted as a violation of state law, criminalizing or creating civil liability for pregnancy outcomes. B, provide information to any other governmental body or agency about pregnancy outcomes unless such information is provided to defend the patient's right to reproductive care, including abortion care, or the healthcare provider's right to provide such care.
 And C, conduct surveillance or use any electronic surveillance device, hardware, or software that is capable of collecting, capturing, recording, retaining, processing, intercepting, analyzing, monitoring, or sharing audio, visual, digital, location, thermal, biometric, behavioral, or similar information or communications specifically associated with or capable of being associated with any specific individual or group.
 or any system, device, or vehicle that is equipped with an electronic surveillance device, hardware, or software for the purpose of determining whether an abortion has occurred, except for the collection of aggregated data without personal identifying information or personal health information for purposes unrelated to criminal investigation, enforcement, or prosecution. It is the intention of the El Paso Police Department that this policy does not apply in cases of conduct
 that is criminally negligent to the health of the pregnant person seeking care, or where coercion or force is used against the pregnant person. In instances where a possible violation of Texas Health and Safety Code Chapter 170A.002 is reported to an officer, the officer will contact the supervisor. The supervisor will make notification to executive staff through the chain of command.
 Again, this pulls a lot of language directly from the GRACE Act resolution that we passed. I think, of course, there's a careful balance here between the officer's duty and the police department's duty to enforce state law and what we asked you all to include in this policy. I think that this accurately reflects what the intention was.
 you know, we'll have a rollout of this, and I think we'll have to see how it works, and I'm glad that you'll be coming back to us to report in May and hopefully into the future as well. So thank you all for putting this together, and like I said, we'll roll it out, and let's... Thank you. Thank you, Representative Canales. Representative Kennedy. Chief, I was just going to say, my impression is you're doing the minimally required by state law actions. Is that about right? State law requires you take some of these
 We do. By being a peace officer in the state of Texas, we have to enforce the laws that the legislature passes and is signed up. But you don't make the prosecutorial decisions? No, sir, we don't. Okay. Thank you. Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mayor. Chief, good morning. Great to see you again. So things that need to be considered any time there is, like you stated earlier,
 offense and the presence of a police officer something's being reported to a police officer that person or the police officers duty-bound to file a police report in certain circumstances for example there's a motor vehicle with injuries felonies misdemeanors in the presence of views so all of that goes into your records management system correct correct okay so us as a body City Council just recently
 had back and forth discussions and we had different funding sources to get body worn cameras so now how is that going to play into the fact that there's not going to be
 Audio and digital recording of certain things in other words. Are we going to start tearing apart that policy? Making exceptions for this policy making that exception for that policy or how would that play out if you can tell us? So the officers are required to have their body cameras activated and with any public contact
 They're required by policy to have that. That goes into our body-worn camera system and it's used for the, if it's part of the case, then it would go with the case so the district attorney has access to it so they can pull that footage. Okay. But if there's policy saying that there's not going to be any type of digital imaging or recording audio, things like that, is there a conflict?
 There's a potential conflict with that, with the two policies, but right now our body worn camera, they have to wear it, they have to have that camera on any time they're in public contact. Great. I appreciate that. I don't know, legal, can you provide any assistance on that please?
 Good afternoon, Eric Gutierrez with the City Attorney's Office. Representative, I don't think it conflicts with our body-worn camera policy. The specific Grace Act language specifically talks about conducting surveillance with respect to the purpose of determining whether an abortion has occurred. And so I don't think those two things conflict.
 In addition to that, because there is body cam storage of these conversations, that doesn't mean they get released to the public. It goes through our office with respect to open records. And so if there is a conversation that's recorded and it's requested, there's a variety of exceptions that apply to that information being released to the public.
 Okay, and so surveillance can mean many things to different people and so the word probably needs to be defined I mean I could be watching something two blocks away and that's my surveillance and I'm doing a visual on it I can probably do an audible on that for a point You know loss of hearing and older age, but the thing is at some point you may act on it so
 It depends on the set of circumstances that's there. And forget necessarily the abortion. What if all of a sudden you see another felony in your president's review? So it changes the dynamics of that as well.
 Sure, yeah. And so I think, you know, when we look at the specific language of the Grace Act, I think that's kind of where we get that excerpt from subsection C and we compare that to our PD policy on those body cameras. Based on my review of both of those and assisting in drafting both of those, I don't think those conflict. And we haven't had any situation since Roe was overturned or since the Grace Act was enacted that we've had this situation come up. Okay. Just food for thought. Thank you very much, sir. And thank you, Chief.
 Thank you. Thank you, Chief. There's no other questions. Thank you for being here, like always. Thank you. Thank you. And I was going to announce, and I didn't realize until we left, that Sergeant Natividad, for everyone's knowledge, is the new president of the Police Association. So I just thought I'd let everyone know that. So congratulations to him. He said he got voted in about seven days ago.
 And there's no action on item 25. And we'll move on to the first item on the regular agenda, which is item 18, discussion and action on a resolution that declares the expenditure of district four discretionary funds towards the funding registration cost of the 2023 National Neighborhoods USA Conference. Move to approve. Is there a motion to approve? Second.
 Thank you very much. And so this is a great event that's going to be happening in our city of El Paso in May, and I fully support it. Having been president of a neighborhood association, two different neighborhood associations,
 Really close and dear to my heart that neighborhoods develop a community communities develop into cities And it's a reflection of all of our diversity. It's a reflection of all of us on who we are it is a very proud day that we as the city of El Paso can host this great event for our nation and
 I look forward to being in attendance there. I look forward to meeting new people. I look forward to all the work that's being done in the planning stages, and I believe it's going to be a great day. So thank you very much. And I do see, Nicole Farini, thank you very much, and your staff, everybody, that's doing the great work on that. Thank you. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. We do have a motion made by Mayor Protemanelo, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve. Polling is open. Representative Fierro?
 And the item has been approved unanimously. Moving on to item 19, and that is a discussion and action and a resolution that declares the expenditure of District 7 discretionary funds also towards funding the registration cost of the 2023 National Neighborhoods USA Conference. Second. We have a motion and two seconds. And we have a motion by Representative Canales.
 Rivera? Seconded by Representative Molinar. And the polling is open. Thank you, Ms. Farini. And the motion has been approved unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present for the vote.
 Moving on to item 22, and that is discussion and action regarding a solicitation for an executive search firm to conduct a national search for the hiring of a permanent city manager, including but not limited to consideration of the scope of work for a national search. Thank you. And I know that Ms. Cody and a team that was assigned has done a really good job of kind of identifying the process, and I'm hoping that everyone up here at the Dyers has been briefed.
 Have we had a briefing with everyone? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. So we kind of have a process and kind of what to look forward to, so if you would go forward, I appreciate it. Thank you for briefing everyone. Oh, thank you, sir. You did a good job. Nicole Cody, Mary Michelle will be joining me just very shortly. So we met with each individual representative, and one item that did come up.
 multiple times was really regarding the interview panel. So we'll go into just the timeline on the procurement and then when Mary gets in, I'll pass it to her. So as requested, hi Miss Mary. No, I was about to. As requested, on March 14th was the motion that was made by Representative Canales and seconded by Representative Analo for us to come back
 with information regarding the past executive search and then also regarding the scope of work for the solicitation for an executive search firm. And so I'm just gonna briefly, as I mentioned, go over the RFP process and then I'll turn it over to Ms. Mary Michelle.
 So, here you'll see the timeline, the tentative timeline that we have regarding the executive recruitment process, and this is the request for proposal. This is the RFP process itself, and this is in order for us to be able to go through the procurement process for selection of the executive recruitment team. And as mentioned, is the selection committee below.
 would be, it's gonna be formed from human resources, our city human resources, as well as an external human resource department. So I'm gonna turn it over to Mary. Thank you. Mary Michelle Wiggins, Assistant Director of Human Resources.
 So the next steps, I believe that each of you received the project scope, and so we're ready to move forward. I think the action today is to make sure that we're all in agreement with the project scope.
 Before we start though, one item in the project scope that we had recommended, we had given you some past history as far as the panels that had been used previously. And so we're gonna do a red line item on the recommendation for the project scope on the section,
 6e the section that actually states the different panels our recommendation is that we're gonna redline that we're gonna strike having those specific panels named out and we're just gonna change that to say a minimum or a maximum a minimum of four panels
 that there will be a minimum of four panels that will be utilized in order to make this decision. That way, we're not focusing right now on what those panels are gonna be. For the purposes of today and the project scope, we just need to be able to agree what's in there and what our requirements are and be able to move forward and then we can later agree on what those panels are gonna look like. So we're just trying to move that forward a little bit. Is there any questions?
 I think it's important that we're going to have four panels. Panels will be in an advisory role, and the final decision will be up to council to vote on
 Correct. Yeah, so there will be different panels, but the other panels will be making recommendations to the mayor and council, and the final decision will be with mayor and council. We're recommending that the search firm that we're going to utilize, they understand that we are wanting heavy funding,
 citizen involvement and that we want them to go out to the citizen groups and we want to gather that information and make sure that We're hearing what our citizens are saying though You know, we want a panel of our employees want to make sure our employees are heard So those are the items in the project scope that have been Outlined and trying to make sure we hit all the marks on what we think is the best items to move forward now How do you plan on? every council member appointing and
 member to each panel well and so that can be something that we will will finalize later but our recommendation will be when we get to that point our recommendation for like the citizens advisory panel we would recommend that mayor and council will each choose one appointee to be on that panel on that panel
 If we choose to use an internal employee panel our recommendation is that mayor and council will each choose one and pointy From sit current city employees to be on that panel. So yes, those employees would be come from each one of you Are you done? I'm sorry. I'm done. Okay representative Kennedy followed by representative Before you wander off real quick
 The RFP selection committee will actually be the council as a whole, correct? No. No, sir. So through an RFP process, as we go through that process, that is a committee is put together that will review all of the RFPs. And that was the one that she mentioned that it would be the – we'd have two human resources executives from city, and then we're recommending one external human resources executive, so there would be three executives.
 three committee panel. And so what would happen is, is they would review all of the bids. They would score them based upon a scoring sheet, I believe I attached.
 And so the final, the recommended one, would be brought back to council, and that would be the one that we're making the recommendation. Council will have the final decision on that choice. And then at that time also, if council so chooses, we can have that person come and do a presentation for you as well. Okay. And you'll share all the scoring with us so we can make a determination based on that? Yes, sir. That would be great. Of all of the individuals, not just the recommended one, correct? Correct.
 correct okay i just was double checking thank you thank you for that uh representative livetta thank you mayor yes sir thank you could you go back and explain that paneling i was trying to find that email that you sent out and so uh thank you rep ganadas who sent it to me um could you explain that paneling again the panel labeling that you're going to have
 Explain all the paneling well the panel that you're gonna have yes, you said you're gonna have two different panels aside from the four No, so what I'm saying is is for the for this process so that we can agree on a project scope We don't want to name the panels. We're choosing at this time to take We're not having any finalization on who the panels are we're just gonna put in that project scope that up to four panels and
 will be on there. So that way, you're not forced to all have to agree on what those panels look like today. That can happen at a later time. For the purpose of this scope, we just want to let the – it's just letting the executive recruit firm know that there's going to be, you know, at least four panels that they're going to be working with. And so we can name those panels later. Okay. But just for those listening, it's going to be –
 combination of everybody involved yes business so our recommendation you know would be that for example the citizens advisory each of you like I said would be able to appoint someone and in the past it has been the mayor and council has appointed business you know members and different people from you know the organization from the citizens different different areas
 And same thing for the internal group. They were able to choose any of the different levels of employees that are current city employees.
 Because I also remember the issue I brought up was business, the business community as well. Correct. And so that's, you know, that's what we can do. That's why we're not wanting to define what those four panels are right now. We're saving that for a later discussion so that you can all come to an agreement on what that looks like. We don't want to hold up, you know, going out for recruitment at this time. So we want to just say up to four.
 and then council and mayor can agree later what those four panels look like to you. Okay, and then again for those listening, that panel will be part of the numbering system that comes in for council.
 panel so the panels that we're talking about that we're putting on here those are for the selection of the city manager okay so the committee for what we're talking all this is for today is to go out for an executive recruiting search form okay and so that committee will be three human
 human resources executives and so once everything is scored and tallied and a final recommendation And you know we talked with each of you whenever we're doing it We want to make sure that we are comparing apples to apples, you know, we want to make sure that that you know that the recruiter understands the Quality, you know what we want going forward and so we'll answer all those questions And then we will come back and we will bring to you who we feel um
 was the highest score and is going to do the best job for the city at that time then you will be able to vote and agree on that person okay but then again when does that when do those panels come in so then once we have the executive recruiting search firm then we're ready to move forward now they're gonna come in they're gonna meet with all of you they're gonna want to you know hear from you they're gonna make sure that you know like the job spec everything is an agreement we agree with all of it what the
 recruitment is going to look like, what your expectations are going to be as far as the citizen involvement, and then we will form those panels of what the final, because there's a lot to even get to that point. And I get it. And so at that point, once that's done, it's to the request of the mayor and most, and I guess the majority of us saying, when you bring, those numbers will include those panels already have been, having had their input.
 Say that again, please. I said those numbers that the mayor requested, I believe, another representative. Well, those numbers he's requesting are for the executive recruiting search firm that we're going to bring forward. So let's just say we have six search firms that bid. We're going to come forth with who number one is, but he wants to see two through six as well. He wants to know what those scores look like.
 then we go and then once you you choose you elect the search firm then we start moving forward with what the next steps gonna look like okay thank you thank you ma'am thank you mayor thank you representative none this followed by mayor Pro Tem mrs. Cody thank you for your work just I I was reviewing your scope of work and this is going to be the language that you place as part of your selection process correct
 Correct. That's going to be in the RFP. That'll be part of the RFP will be our scope of work. Okay, so There's some things that I have worked with different interview panels Specifically with the Socorro ISD and I mentioned to you this in our conversations I thought Socorro superintendent search was really really well done What they I don't know if any of you any of you interviewed with them and I even suggest us like
 I don't know that I'm in your jurisdiction, but I really appreciated the fact that they incorporated different stakeholders and leaders But at any rate they that was the search firm that the school district had hired that was actively doing Those interviews with different stakeholders. I think they had said they had that they were conducting over a hundred I think there was even more That they achieved
 So there are some things that I truly do believe should be incorporated in the scope of work. And so, of course, stakeholder engagement, I see that in the –
 The proposed scope of work, looking at stakeholder interviews, community meet and greets, meeting the panelists, staff meetings, I think is really important to have an internal process. Staff should have the opportunity, as done in the past, to participate in meeting with finalists and interviews. Looking at the actual vendor process.
 I've always been concerned about maybe the candidates that they propose aren't the candidates, or maybe they pull out, or something of that nature. So making sure that the firm will guarantee their search.
 and no additional fees will come from that. So if the first round is not meeting the needs of council, then to make sure that we put there that they're going to guarantee that with no additional cost to the taxpayer that they will bring back a second round or a third round. Looking at search committees, key staff, and community leaders and stakeholders, again,
 What I what I think is really important for a search firm is to Have a dedicated point of contact for this region and then also have a dedicated group Who will do that one-on-one interviews with? neighborhood associations with different faith groups and stakeholders I think that's really important given the the high profile of this position and
 Also making sure that our search firm is able to go across different digital platforms. So making sure that they're utilizing social media. We have found that social media has been really supportive in public discourse and dialogue. I don't know if this council would want the firm to help with negotiating salaries, but I think that's something we should explore.
 And then the final thing I wanted to make sure is that
 having you know because there's a lot of confidentiality you know making sure that the confidentiality is stressed to protect candidates who are applying for the job but also making sure that they have robust PIO team who is able to work with the city's PIO team so that they can release that information in concert so there's a clear strategy on announcing to the public getting the timeframe and engagement from the public so I would
 ASKED IF GOOD WITH COUNCIL THAT WE ASK WE ADD THOSE ADDITIONAL REQUESTS TO THE SCOPE OF WORK BECAUSE THAT MAY FILTER OUT FIRMS THAT ARE NOT PREPARED TO DO THAT MUCH ENGAGEMENT FOR A COMMUNITY AND WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE'S A LOT OF CONFIDENCE AND DAMAGE CONTROL THAT WE HAVE TO DO AS A COMMUNITY AND SO I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE OVER EDUCATE AND INCLUDE THE PUBLIC AS MUCH AS WE CAN.
 And so those those are my suggestions and I know you all have a lot of latitude with the scope of work But I think they're pretty reasonable requests and I think a search a professional search firm should you know be able to do all that Thank you. Thank you Thank you
 Thank you all for the presentation and for briefing me last week. There are a couple things that I want to talk about, and one is less about the search firm and the process. So I imagine you are all going to walk us through this process, right? So what's the...
 the company is hired and we're actually going y'all are gonna kind of hold our hand so I think this is kind of a relevant comment and I don't think that anybody here on council is going to be a problem but I just do want to state for the record that I think at our last hire there was some poor conduct from council members right not sitting through the interviews but then coming in and voting I think it made this council look bad I think it made the city look bad
 And so I really want to see how we can create, I guess, a code of conduct or some kind of guidelines for the participation that needs to take place from council. And what happens if you don't take part in that, right? You know, we can't stop anyone from voting. Obviously, they're a member of this body, but I think it's really important that each of us kind of takes a pledge to be through every step of this process. So I'm going to task you with that. That'll be great. The other is looking at the firms. Okay.
 I think you said up to four panels, you listed four, but I do agree, I think the more community outreach and internal...
 participation in this process is important like I don't want to limit ourselves I know that we all appoint someone and I think it's important for us as a council to appoint a committee right because you had representative Rivera say well the business community wants to be involved right and I don't think that any one candidate should be interviewing with five different groups of people whether it's a business community or like the nonprofits you're never gonna make everyone happy and it's just gonna create a cluster and so I think it's really important to kind of focus on that
 One thing that I would like to kind of mention is we did this with a charter committee where we allowed a non-voting member, I guess. I mean, I don't think this committee will vote on anything. Maybe they will, but from the labor union, I think that's important. That doesn't take a position away from any of the council, but also includes people that are impacted. And so I think that maybe having that as part of our appointed committee would be as important as well. I also kind of...
 don't know where these comments fit in the sake of this conversation but you know a lot of times we see these companies that just kind of have like a pile of applicants and so then you hire them and they've already you know people have paid them a membership and then they just kind of give you these applicants right without I think looking at
 at what you really want. Whereas I know I just worked for a national search for a nonprofit organization to find a new executive director. And when we went through the process of looking at a company, we really looked at, okay, what do we want from the executive director? And there were companies, and they're different because they're nonprofit world, but that look at diverse hiring, look at kind of
 a philanthropic experience, right? Things that are different to what we're looking for, but I guess what I'm trying to say is that there are companies, I think, that look more at the specific candidate than they're just like a pay-to-hire service. And I think that's important. I think we as a council are going to have to sit down and say, well, what are those qualities that we want, right? Correct. You know, is this the time that we're doing that?
 No. Okay. No. So that will take place. Like once we have an executive search firm, we're going to bring them in and we're going to set them down with all of you. And that's when you're going to be having those discussions of what you're looking for. But I think I'm going a step ahead of that because I think what I'm saying is that there are search forms that are more diverse in and of themselves. Yes.
 And that's where my concern is, because right now we're talking about that process for that search form. Correct. I would like to see a search form that is not just a pay-to-hire service. I would like to see someone who is looking at diverse hire, that is looking at...
 kind of products of equity, right, in the work that they've done before. And so I don't know if this feedback now was helpful to you when it comes to the RFP process? Okay. And so some of the questions that I have that are going to go in the RFP, I mean, those are some of my questions. Some of Ms. Hernandez's as well. So I asked the question on diversity. You know, I want them to give me a level. I need to know that they are –
 willing and wanting to work, you know, and address diversity. I also asked questions on guarantees I want to make sure what happens if we don't get one and what happens if you know Six months down the road once they start, you know, we want guarantees So I tried to place those kind of items in there in order to be able to help score to make sure that we are Getting that right search firm Thank you. That's very helpful Representative Canales. Thank you mayor Pro Tem
 Hi, Mary. Hi. Thank you all for putting this together. You've done a good job. I'm going to do it again. I'm going to read a little bit. Let me read out some of the questions that you sent. I think it's valuable for people to hear some of the questions. And to be clear, by questions, I mean questions that will be included in the RFP for scoring and to evaluate the potential search firms that we might hire.
 The first one specializes in local government recruiting. There's length of experience conducting recruitments for similar positions, number of city manager recruitments in the last 10 years, provides a detailed project manager with career, local government experience, or significant experience recruiting comparable positions to the position being recruited.
 Has experience conducting stakeholder engagement activities such as stakeholder interviews, community meet and greets, staff meetings, facilitating media interviews, community profile input meetings, surveys, et cetera. Number six, experience in diversity, equity, and inclusion in recruiting candidates. That emphasizes the importance of working with diverse populations, highlighting existing diversity present in the community slash organization, advertising the position with diverse professional organizations, et cetera.
 7 offers online recorded candidate video interviews prior to finalist selection.
 Eight, assists with salary negotiations. Nine, provides an applicant pool guarantee. Search will be reported for no additional, repeated, apologies, search will be repeated for no additional fee if initial pool is unsatisfactory. And ten, length of service guarantee, professional fee waived for new search if selected candidate leaves within specific length of time. And I think that those are pretty comprehensive. They cover a lot of the concerns that people brought up today.
 And, you know, I think those are good questions that will define a recruitment that hopefully will get us a good pool of candidates. Let me see, I think there's no one who wants to speak after me, so at this point I will, I move that we direct staff to use this, the scope of work that is included in the backup
 including the recruitment questions that were sent to us, and incorporating the additional red line that staff proposed earlier, as well as the concerns and additional questions brought up by Representative Hernandez. Second.
 Thank you all for your work. I think that this is a good timeline. This is, you know, just like Representative Canales said, you know, it's got all these metrics you all are going to look at and bring back in some type of order for us. So thank you all. So with that, we have a motion and a second. We do have a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Salcido, and that is to...
 Direct staff to use the scope of work that's included in the backup Including the recruiting questions and additional red line recommendations as well as the additional input provided by representatives Okay to include the additional information Provided by their council members and again, this is strictly for the search for the executive
 Yeah, I think that's one final important clarification to make for the public This is we're discussing the scope of work for hiring the search firm This does not extend to the scope of work for hiring the city manager That this that the search firm will use that will come later I will reinstate restate the the motion just to make sure in this is to direct staff to use the scope of work for hiring the city of El Paso executive search services for the city manager position and
 including recruiting questions, the additional red line recommendations, and the recommendations made by council members. And again, to approve, and voting session is open. Representative Setsi, thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. And then, Mayor, can we take a break before call to the public? We have a nine-minute break. What time is it? We got nine minutes to call to the public. So...
 Yeah. We have to sit through a call to the public. Is it an action item or is this a presentation? Go ahead, ma'am. So with the next item is item 23, and that is presentation on key points from the guidelines for recruiting a city manager produced by the Texas City Management Association by Representative Hernandez. Okay. So I wanted to come down here so I can see the presentation a little bit better.
 And I wanted to thank you, Representative Canales, for your leadership and pushing forward a process for the search firm. I wanted to just share for purposes of informing the public because it's so important what we're doing. And so can you go to the next slide, please? So the Texas City Managers Association, they've actually conducted a guideline process for city councils.
 And this is all verbatim from the guide. And so what it states is selected a city manager is one of the most important decisions by a city council. The hiring process for a city manager must be deliberate and not impulsive. And please note when we talk about city council, we are referring to city council as a whole as identified as a city charter, including the mayor.
 So while a city council is responsible for providing policy and political leadership for the city, the city manager is responsible for implementing policy and providing the administrative leadership necessary for continued progress and employee morale. To the great extent as a resource to the city, the city manager will make the difference between whether or not city council objectives and priorities are identified, defined, considered, and implemented. Okay.
 And since we've had a change of form of government, we've had two city managers, former city manager Joyce Wilson and former current city manager Tommy Gonzalez, whose time will end in about 120 days. So that puts you at June of this year. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 So first steps, while resources are available to assist, the most important considerations for those making the hiring decision are to know what you are looking for when recruiting to fill a vacant city manager position. I think we have done a pretty good job at identifying, you know, what it is that we're looking for just among city council. Remember that recruiting a city manager is a two-way street. The city has a responsibility to present the position attractively, show interest in the applicants, and be competitive.
 Be sure the recruiting process is well organized and coordinated from the outset I think we've done that and so really proud of the council for doing that don't lose control of the recruitment process or the hiring Decision to others such as search firms Employee groups community groups or other elected officials Involve people in the recruitment process who are knowledgeable of local government and how the council manager form of government works recruitment first steps next slide, please and
 City Council's first steps when a vacancy becomes known and prior to the recruitment, act promptly but deliberately to announce the vacancy and recruitment timetable. We talked earlier about looking at the by the end of this year, hopefully the recruitment process will be finished.
 MEET TO PLAN FOR THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS. WE'VE DONE THAT THE PAST TWO COUNCIL MEETINGS AND TODAY. APPOINT AN INTERIM CITY MANAGER. WE HAVE DONE THAT. OBTAIN STATUS REPORT ON CURRENT PROBLEMS AND IMPORTANT PROJECTS. DEFER KEY ACTIONS WHERE POSSIBLE FOR THE NEW CITY MANAGER. NEXT SLIDE. PARTICIPANTS OF THE SELECTION PROCESS. OF COURSE CITY COUNCIL WE'RE RESPONSIBLE TO DEVELOP A FRAMEWORK. I THINK THE SEARCH PROCESS IS THE FIRST STEP.
 Assigned key staff to assist with search firms. I think those who have risen have been Mary Michelle as well as Nicole Cody We need to be clear on identifying key staff internally citizens committee if desired by City Council and structured properly It is possible for citizens to play a role in the process. This council has made that clear we would like to include the public and
 While citizens' involvement can play an important role in recruitment, two cautions must be noted. The city council must not lose control in terms of making the final decision so that candidates do not receive the impression that they are being hired by a committee as opposed to the city council itself. Most often, the public does not fully understand the job of a city manager, especially how it relates to the city council, how government works, the complexity of the public policy arena, and multiple diverging perspectives, et cetera. So the public's preference should not trump the council's.
 Preferences. Next slide. Timing. The timing of a city manager recruitment can sometimes be affected by publication deadlines, which are important in terms of properly advertising the vacant position.
 Deadlines, we should consider deadlines for submitting resumes and an ideal timeline could be 30 to 60 days from the start of the recruitment. Applicant reviews, 30 to 60 days to review the resumes, have interviews, conduct background checks and make a selection. After selections, a minimum of 30 to 45 days for this new city manager to relocate to the city.
 that's applicable overall the recruitment should move forward and it expeditious way allowing adequate time for a thorough and comprehensive process next slide selection criteria because no one is an expert in all areas and because city managers have various backgrounds and experiences it is important for the City Council to reach a general consensus on competencies experience education level skills this new city manager should possess and objectives that they will look to him her to achieve
 By reaching a general consensus on the selection guidelines criteria, the parameters can be used in three ways during the recruitment process. For the advertising of the position, for the selection criteria, reviewing the resumes, and for assessing the performance of a new city manager. Next slide. Compensation. I know the public is really interested in hearing this. A final item to be considered at the outset of the recruitment is compensation. While it is important for the city council to have some general understanding of salary parameters.
 It is also important that the council leave itself some flexibility in this area. Some city councils leave salary open, commensurate with background and experience. From a practical standpoint, every city has political or other limits in terms of compensation, and this can be taken into account by reviewing the current salary of applicants at the time of finalists are selected. Another approach is to consider the listing, the current city manager's salary, or the proposed salary range while stating the salary is negotiable for determining a salary range.
 The TML, Texas Municipal League, has an annual survey of salaries and benefits provided for 27 positions in Texas cities, including the positions of city manager. Next slide. I did that search. Everything that's in white, I took directly from the TML survey, and that was captured this year, but it has entry dates. These are surveys voluntary from different cities.
 But I didn't see any larger cities in Texas that are comparable to our population. So I went above and beyond and I got additional cities, San Antonio, Dallas, Austin, Fort Worth and Arlington. So in the little notes on the bottom there, you will see that for the top five city managers respective to this chart only.
 The average salary for the top five city managers is $386,822. The average salary for all city managers, regardless of population size and region, some cities don't have city managers. They have, like for example, the Houston area, there's Pasadena, they have a chief of staff.
 That chief of staff makes $225,000. So it just depends on the form of government, but the average salaries is $305,352.91, and that is just the average for all of those. Next slide. So the recruitment process, the position should be well defined, the position should be effectively advertised, a selection process consisting of interviews, and total compensation package.
 I just want this information to be out to the public because there there are guidelines I think just looking at the initial conversations. I think we've I think we can get there. I just think Once we have the selection firm will get deeper into the weeds next slide recruitment alternatives is not applicable anymore because we just Directed staff to do a city manager search with the search firm and the next slide. I
 There also are selection processes and so I would ask our team to look at some of those selection methods and they do go into detail about, they even have an addendum that goes into detail about what we should be looking for in a selection firm. I would highly recommend our team to look at that. There's a lot of lessons learned here. Next slide.
 DIVERSITY. DIVERSITY FOR THE TEXAS CITY MANAGERS ASSOCIATION IS ACTUALLY REALLY INTERESTING THE WAY THEY APPROACH THIS. THERE IS A GUIDELINE IN THEIR GUIDE, THERE'S A SPECIFIC APPENDIX THAT POINTS TO THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DIVERSITIES IN HIRING LOCAL GOVERNMENTS. THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS ASSOCIATION IN TEXAS STATE THAT DUE TO THE CURRENT LACK OF DIVERSITY IN THEIR PROFESSION, THEY'RE
 The next generation of public servants may not see local governments as an attractive option, making future talent and development recruitment challenging. So they really try to focus on diversity. I think most communities, their leaders should be reflective of that, but that is something that the TCMA highly recommends focusing on diversity because of the lack of diversity in the state. Next slide.
 We should have a process for in-house applicants as well. Next slide. I don't know how to go to the next slide. Oh, I think I went back. Oh, this one. In-house applicants. We should have a process in-house as well, make sure that's on our city's online job application platform, and to make sure that in-house applicants are treated in the same manner as all applicants. Next slide.
 The application review process unless the City Council has retained an executive recruiting firm. There are at least other alternatives so We could receive hundreds of resumes for the city manager position. So it's really important that our search firm Puts the work in to pick the best qualified finalist next slide
 Then finalists, when resume review process has been completed, it should be possible to narrow down the total group of applicants to a smaller second round group consisting of 10 to 15 applicants. This smaller group will be the subject to more thorough background checks, including references and social media. And there's more additional information about background checks and interviews. Next slide. We can have a discussion about virtual interviews. If you know, I think now and after the pandemic, you know, I think those are pretty, pretty
 pretty much something that our firm could consider and I would be open to that. But I think for final applicants, we should consider them to be in person because there are a lot of cons and pros for virtual interviews and the guide talks about that as well. You know, not being able to understand body language and making sure that we can we get more when we're in person. And then the final thing that I want to mention to you all is
 because we only had like a week to have this discussion about search firms you know other communities do extensive community out outreach right before they hire a search firm we didn't have a lot of time to do that given the current circumstances our office released and partner with EFO media we released a survey just to kind of get a sense of how does the public want to be involved I'm sharing the those surveys with you all today there
 We passed him around and just to wrap up kind of the survey results 86 percent respondents or residents the the question about how the public should be engaged in the city manager selection process the top three were to be a community town hall meetings.
 survey and input on qualifications and Citizens Advisory Committee. So there is you know really firm you know feedback not only from one-on-one conversations I've had but from the survey results that the public certainly wants to be involved in this process. The other leadership traits that they believe are most important for our next city manager to possess and the top three were ethical,
 which is 80 percent trustworthy 69 and visionary 44 the next question is which three of the following management styles do you believe are essential for the city manager to have to successfully lead of vipassu and the top three were top three management styles are strategic collaborative and team oriented the next question is which of the five following abilities and skills do you believe are most essential to perform the work of the city manager
 The top three were to be good stewards of city resources, the ability for a city manager to think strategically and remain focused on the city's long-term goals, and skill in municipal finance. Those were the top three. Do you think it's necessary for a new city manager to have previous experience in any of the following areas? And we had over 67% believe that city managers' management experience is critical.
 What are the top three opportunities and top three challenges? They're pretty lengthy responses, but I have all of the responses if you'd like to look at them. But in essence, the takeaway is rebuild confidence, making sure we have a city manager that is going to be inclusive of all stakeholders, and to make sure that we rebuild trust in the community.
 And then we did capture kind of where all the residents live, and we got respondents from all of the districts, and most of them have over 15 years living in the city of El Paso.
 And so I wanted to make sure that we had just some kind of understanding of where we want the process to go. I reiterate to my constituents that this is your government. This is your management. These are, we are your public servants. We are here to have an open and transparent process.
 and the more that we can over educate the community include them I think we'll be better off this is the most important decision I will make and each one of you will make and so my hope is is that we take this process seriously as we have already and be as inclusive as possible and fair but also have the position to be as attractive so that we can talent recruit the best talent for our community that concludes my presentation sorry I went a little bit over
 You're at nine and a half minutes. No, thank you for the presentation. I think that gives us a lot of food for thought, and I know that every city council member has a responsibility. Just like you said, it'll be one of our largest responsibilities as elected officials that we will make, so it's going to be very important. So this gives us food for thought, and I think that all city council members will meet with their constituents and come up with some type of...
 game plan as you did because I think it's important that we do reach out to our community and and bring it forward and I thank the Nicole Cody and her staff for bringing up The process that we're going to be looking forward to using. So thank you again. Thank you And with that call to the public we do have one member of the public Carmen Rodriguez Are you on the line star six to unmute your microphone? Miss Carmen Rodriguez
 Star six to unmute your microphone. I guess she's not there So I'd like to go to call the public next and after that I will take a 30-minute recess for lunch We'll take call to the public at this moment the El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all the citizens of the city and meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge
 The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of the City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity.
 which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during the call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic can be posted on a future agenda. We do have nine members of the public signed up to speak. The first one is Carla Ruiz, followed by
 Ms. Kazen, no, Kazen Bimande, Maria Cristina Rivera, Richard Dayup, Logan Rolf, Albert Rivera, Barbara Valencia, Efrain Saucedo, and Rich Wright. And Ms. Carla Ruiz, are you here? Hi, yes, good afternoon. Yes, can you hear me?
 Yes, you have three minutes to address the council and her topic is proposed solution for our city's flooding issues. Perfect. Thank you. So good afternoon. Thank you for having me. My name again is Carla Ruiz. I was born and raised here in El Paso. I left approximately...
 closer to 20 years ago now in 2006 during one of the worst monsoon seasons that i think our city has ever experienced when we've had some significant issues with flooding i just moved back to the city recently in 2021 and during that year surprise surprise again terrible monsoons um
 It just doesn't get any better. Last year as well, terrible season, so bad that my mom lives in Central. Her tiny Fiat almost got swept away by the street flooding and torrential rain. So this issue is an ongoing issue. Twenty years later, I don't think that the city, unfortunately, has really come up with any
 um good solutions at least not from what i can personally visually see around town the same issues are there i am not a city planner i'm not a hydrologist
 In fact, I'm just an attorney. I don't have much expertise in water, but I do know of a guy who does have this expertise, and his name is Brad Lancaster. He works out of Tucson, and I'm not kidding when I say he has literally found the solution to what our community needs in preventing all these floods.
 How do I know that he's found the solution? Because he's done it in Tucson, right? He's done things like landscaping for rain and water management, instituted water management systems.
 in a way that hopefully my colleague who is also here to give a public comment, his name is Logan Relf. Hopefully he can give you a bit more of the specifics of exactly how he does it. But the reason for my public comment today is to introduce
 This guy to you, his name again, Brad Lancaster, and he works out of Tucson. He's been able to work with the city to pass a variety of municipal, residential, and commercial codes that are transforming the city in a way that really helps sequester the carbon, filter contaminants from the streets,
 It does things like recharge our aquifers. It grows wildlife habitats. And the solution is very surprising. We basically have to cut our city curb to let the water go into certain landscaping areas and to basically, and you can do this in every neighborhood. Yes, Rhys, your three minutes are up. Thank you for your public comment. Next person is Huacinque Demende.
 And you have three minutes, sir. His topic is NMSU Financial Innovation Lab, open to El Paso and Juarez residents' innovative ideas. Which is why I'm here. The fact that the Financial Innovation Lab is open to community members of El Paso, Juarez, and, of course, Las Cruces. And this is my return because last time I was here, Mayor, you had signed a proclamation for World Savings Day.
 Our innovation, Kaizen Rhino Solutions, is a financial lead design. In this case, lead is leadership in economic empowerment design. We have two financial frames, plus we intend to expand our decentralized pilot to include west of Lordsburg and east of Van Horn.
 This project is similar to El Paso's goal for sustainable economic development, but in this case, LEED's is focused on the individual. So, sustainable economic development for the individual. Yes, this is the I-10 financial space corridor, and we have also designed the Financial Galactic Train, which is driven by compound interest and the EMF constant.
 FGT, Financial Galactic Train, runs on the Carmen Financial Gold Line, and that's related to the Bloomberg Wealth Number Model. So it's a scientific model that you can use. The legislation would write and supervise safety and inspection rules for these financial leads. And community members, you would get on board to help build your organization
 account and benefit from this how to increase community prosperity without use of taxes or debt you drop the ineffective costly methods of the past and present and you adopt the highly efficient ai and ea effective altruism enhanced evidence-based proven financial lead model
 for maximum time value of money compounding. Why? We are focused on starting with prenatals to newborns. And with the idea, it takes a village economic gardening vision. Our motto is build right, build once, build on over time, community prosperity truth. Everyone will experience from prenatal, crawl, walk, run, life cycle financial education.
 focused on how to develop and nurture their goose to lay three to five golden eggs per day, and especially how not to kill it. Mark your calendars. Mr. Bemende, your three minutes are up. Thank you for your comments. Appreciate it. Thank you for being here again, sir. Thank you. Next person is Maria Cristina Rivera. Ms. Cristina Rivera.
 is going to be addressing council, and she's protesting against housing director, and Mariana Orozco will be translating for her. Tiene tres minutos, señora. Buenas tardes, señores representantes de la ciudad y el señor mayor Oscar Lisser. Buenos días. La razón que estamos aquí, mi compañera Melinda Rodríguez y su servidora, es para que examinen ustedes como personas que tienen más...
 And how do you say, do you understand more about the HAT availability applications that Mr. Chichón has made to the Chicago HAT? Because I already gave you one of the applications he made. Yesterday, the operations director sent it to me. Mrs. Rivera, please allow Ms. Orozco to speak in English, please. Sorry, I don't know. Okay, thank you.
 They just delivered the application for the provision of the houses of Scarce Ice that the director of the public housing requested to the Chicago HUD. I don't know if he has access to the Chicago HUD because we are in the state of Texas. I would like them to review it because we, as tenants, were notified in December 2020
 que se nos iban a remover porque se iba a pedir la solicitud de la disposición 18 de la sección 970 de HAC. Entonces, no han cumplido ciertos criterios con nosotros, que habla el 979 del CFR, que también está ahí,
 to give us our opinion on how this change would affect us emotionally and economically. Hello. Hello, city council members and Mayor Oscar Leaser. My name is Maria Cristina Rivera and along with my partner, Miss Hermlinda Rodriguez, we're here to protest and require to have you as a more prepared entity to examine the
 To examine and check the initiative from the director from HUD, Mr. Chichon, from the HUD on Chicago, since they were not notified fully as part of the people who are being benefited by the HUD, this is in a matter of the disposition number 18, section 9709. They were not, um,
 advised of any changes on in addition to this they were not asked directly on how these changes would affect them psychologically and financially due to this implementing changes from the director of HUD from Chicago la proposición que hicieron ellos para disponer de esas casas
 Son, se llama scattered sites, casas dispersas en toda la ciudad y pertenecen 100% a housing. Entonces, la razón que ellos dieron, que como dice aquí, que es mucho el mantenimiento por propiedad y la distancia, la distancia entre…
 Las propiedades, si es un obstáculo para la oficina y la propiedad, lo que genera desafío de mantenimiento y administración, a ser propuso, propósito de deshacerse de las viviendas unifamiliares y duplex de difícil gestión que se encuentran distribuidas por la ciudad. Ese fue su argumento. Entonces, mi pregunta es de que todas las administraciones anteriores de el gobierno
 siempre llevaron muy bien esas casas, excepto esta administración de este señor. Esta persona nos quitó el departamento de mantenimiento y contrató a organizaciones privadas, ¿cómo se dice?, empresas privadas de mantenimiento. Esa es la razón que también ellos no dan abasto, porque duran hasta un mes
 para ir a hacer un arreglo y muchos de los costos de las descomposturas de las casas las hemos pagado nosotros.
 So back in March 27, 2023, I spoke to Ms. Maria Flores, the director of operations from public housing, and the argument that was exposed was that it is too much of a cost for the maintenance of the property and the distance in between houses of the scattered housing, scattered site, I apologize, and the distance between houses of the scattered housing, scattered site, I apologize,
 y por eso no pueden cumplir los requisitos de mantenimiento. También decidieron o expusieron que se dispusiera las casas familiares y los duplexes, ya que es muy difícil mantener la mantenimiento debido a que se despliega.
 previos administraciones antes de ellos no tenían un problema con la habitación de escala hasta ahora. El problema que se encontró fue que Mr. Chichón y su administración han contratado empresas privadas
 por menes on properties instead of keeping the current the previous men ah services which makes it hard to keep up indeed with maintenance ah but previous administrations have not had that issue before señora rivera ya su tiempo se acabó seis minutos gracias gracias por sus comentarios gracias next person is richard deyo
 And Mr. DeYubis' topic is encourage city council and citizens of El Paso to visit Fort Bliss. You have three minutes, sir. Thank you, thank you, Mayor, members of council. Very briefly, and I've spoken to each of you on several occasions about our support for Fort Bliss. For the record, I am a registered lobbyist with the city under Thunderbird Management, but I'm here to speak to you personally through our support of Fort Bliss and our soldiers and their families.
 So recently, since General Eisenhower has taken over out at Fort Bliss, he's made a concerted effort to bring Bliss back in the community, and he's done a number of events within the community to encourage our mutual engagement with one another. So I just wanted to share this information with you, and by extension through the broadcast system to share it with our citizens. It's now become easier than ever to access Fort Bliss,
 Any citizen who has a valid driver's license can go out to Fort Bliss and go to the Chaffee Gate or the Buffalo Soldier Gate, spend about 15 or 20 minutes. They do a quick background check, and then they approve you. And with that, you're able to use your driver's license as access point to Fort Bliss.
 For the next three years was virtually just driving through as if you had a government issued ID from Fort Bliss And so I just want to encourage all citizens of El Paso Take advantage of this opportunity become more engaged with Fort Bliss and our soldiers and their families and I thank you for your time Thank you. Next person is Logan Rolf and his topic is stormwater collection Mr. and he's here in person. Oh
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to all members of this council. My name is Logan Ralph. I'm a professional archaeologist, environmental consultant, and a homeowner in El Paso, Texas. Today I'd like to discuss rainwater harvesting, specifically strategies for increasing green space in the city by utilizing runoff to reduce erosion and the adverse effects of stormwater.
 When my wife and I purchased our home in central El Paso about a year and a half ago, the contractor flipped the house, left very minimal vegetation on the lot. The vast majority of the yard was bare, compacted earth. The parkway, or the area between the sidewalk and the street proper, was likewise bare, save for Johnson grass and weeds. Since I'm a gardener and a proponent of native plants, I began to research how I could green up my yard and the parkway.
 I now have a series of berms in my yard that plant the rain in my yard by slowing down runoff and saving it. And ten native trees now adorn the western yard on my property. As I said before, the land between our property and the street was heavily compacted and runoff drained past the parkway and became a fast flowing stream on the street and properties downstream were at risk of flooding. I wanted to plant trees to create shade and curb appeal in this location.
 for the parkway three infiltration basins which can also be called backwater or eddy basins were created to capture street runoff during rain events in the watershed these are passive berms that are passive systems that use curb cuts basins and mulch to capture rain from street runoff and provide irrigation we called 811 had the utilities marked called the city to apply for a permit to cut the curb and plant the right-of-way i was informed that based on the description um
 It could be accurately described as a landscaping project, which it is, and that a permit was not required. I excavated the basins using hand tools. Rain falling in the watershed upslope flows down the street into the infiltration basins where it waters trees and grasses. The land has been made pervious and is no longer compact. Rain water is the tree's primary water source and will be the only water source after three years when they are considered mature. Based on my calculations, with 10 inches of rain per year, which is the average annual rainfall here in El Paso, the trees will receive approximately 8,000 gallons of water per year.
 That's more than enough for these native trees to flourish with minimal effort. Here the streetscapes can be like verdant parkscapes. We enhance our community by planting trees that beautify and shade natural gathering areas. Shade invites people to linger, to talk, joke, and connect while reducing exposed hardscape that creates the withering heat island effect.
 according to Rowan Roundtree and Shading Our City's vegetative areas intercept and transpire enough water to significantly modify the water budget in urban regions in a one-inch rainstorm over 12 hours the interception by rain and the canopy can reduce surface runoff by 11.3 million gallons or 17% our company can help the city of El Paso draft and pass a rainwater capture ordinance and stormwater to transform these city streets into living resilient green infrastructure thank you for your time
 Thank you for your comments. Thank you. Next person is Albert Rivera, and his topic is noise ordinance decibel limits. Mr. Rivera, are you here? We'll go to the next person, and that's Barbara Valencia. Topic is HSS and puppies in regard to animal services house program. IT, can we have the Elmo projected, please? It's a math problem today. IT, can you please turn on the overhead projector? Thank you.
 Nothing there. Move to the next speaker. Yeah. Ms. Valencia, would you like to just make your statement without your we can make copies. It's a math problem. We're just going to have to listen to you. There it is. Oh, we're good? Okay. There's a math problem. Thank you, everybody. Sorry. You have three minutes. I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. And as you can see today, today's going to be a little bit of a math problem.
 On the first day HAWS was implemented, 15 unspayed female dogs were denied intake and left on the street to breed with the unneutered male dogs also denied intake and left on the streets. Female dogs have two litters a year with an average of six puppies per litter. So how many dogs and puppies do we have today? Let's do the math. In 2020 we had the 15 dogs that had 12 puppies each. That equals 180 puppies. And because they're on the streets, half of those puppies are unspayed females.
 So in 2021, we now have 90 dogs having 12 puppies each. That's 1,080 puppies, plus another 180 puppies from the original 15 dogs, for a total of 1,260 puppies, and half of those are unspayed females. 2022, we now have 630 dogs giving birth to 12 puppies.
 That equals 7,560 puppies, plus another 180 from the original 15 for a total of 7,740 puppies. Half of those are unspayed females. Now we're into 2023. We now have 3,870 dogs giving birth to 12 puppies for a grand total of 46,440 puppies, plus another 180 from the original 15.
 which equals out to 46,620 puppies, half are unspayed females. So we start out with 15 dogs and by the end of this year we could have almost 50,000 dogs and puppies. When you intentionally deny intake of unspayed female dogs and intentionally leave them on the streets with unneutered male dogs to breed, you are intentionally breeding dogs. It's that simple. The City of El Paso is now in the business of breeding dogs.
 You can call it HOSD, Manage Intake, Capacity for Care, but it all means the same. Intake is closed to healthy stray and lost animals. When is enough enough? How many dogs and puppies is too many? 100,000? 200,000? 500,000? Mayor Leeser and City Council, where are you going to put 50,000 dogs and puppies? You can't fix this by building more shelters.
 The only way to fix it is to end the contract with Best Friends, which will end the Haas Managed Intake Capacity Care Program. Using a shelter program that requires intake to be closed and leaving the dogs on the street to indiscriminately breed in the community will only make more dogs and puppies. It's that simple. How many is too many? Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Next person is Efrain Saucedo. Mr. Saucedo. I don't see him. Are you here? I don't see him.
 Next person is rich right topic is the strategic plan You have three minutes, sir. Thank you. Hello, mr. Wright. Good afternoon mayor and City Council. My name is rich, right? Thank you for entertaining me and entertaining my ideas. I'm here to talk to you about the city strategic plan It's good to have a plan like the Cheshire Cat said to Alice if you don't have a plan if you don't know where you're going Any road will take you there?
 but the city's plan is fatally, arrogantly, and tragically flawed. The city's strategic plan has eight goals. Like the famous Jewish philosopher said, a man who has two masters serves one of them poorly. A strategic plan should have one overarching goal. If you have eight goals, you have tactics instead of a strategy. With no ultimate goal to achieve, then how will you know when the plan is working or whether it's not?
 Like the famous Mexican philosopher José Alfredo Jiménez said, hay que saber llegar. You notice that the city's budget presentation predicts a shortfall in the years to come. Can you imagine a CEO giving that presentation to his board of directors in the private sector? He'd be looking for a new job in a lot shorter interval than 120 days. The city's plan gives no consideration to the taxpayer. That would be like in the private sector giving no consideration to the customer.
 It's notable that the City's plan doesn't address costs, cost-benefit analysis, or return on investment. No private sector enterprise could do that, but the City can do that because the City has a captive market. All the City has to do is raise taxes to cover the budget shortfall. Of course, the market isn't as captive as one might imagine. The brain drain has actually accelerated since the strategic plan was implemented.
 A reasonable person might think that reducing the city's tax burden would be one of the strategic plan's goals. Nuh-uh. The city talks a lot about quality of life, but for most El Pasoans, their quality of life is dependent on how much money they have left over after they pay their bills. And the city's tax policies are pricing many El Pasoans out of meaningful decisions about their quality of life. In short, the city's strategic plan is beautifully presented and full of the right jargon
 but it falls short of becoming of being an effective strategic plan for the citizens of el paso because it doesn't even consider the citizens of el paso it only focuses on the processes of city government in a vacuum
 I think it's telling that the city's values are encapsulated by the anagram IREAP, standing for Integrity, Respect, Excellence, Accountability, and People. IREAP, as though the citizens were there to be harvested. Maybe that's a Freudian slip. Maybe the city accidentally revealed their true intentions. I'm going to put an expanded version of this presentation on my website, ElChuCano.com. Thank you. Thank you for your comments.
 Item 24 should I move no we would like to recess for lunch till 1 o'clock. Is there a motion to recess? second motion made by representative Set Cito seconded by representative canales to recess at 12 36 p.m. Until 1 all in favor Any opposed? Thank you. Meeting is in recess at 12 37 p.m. So moved. Second.
 We do have a motion to reconvene the council meeting for March the 28th at 1 0 4 p.m. All those in favor All those opposed and we're back in session item 24 sir
 And that is discussion and action on a resolution to appoint a member to the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board of Trustees in the area of expertise of engineering as recommended by the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board Selection Committee. Is there a motion to approve? Move to approve. And we do have a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Kennedy. The session is open.
 Voting session is open and it is approved and not present for the vote is representative Hernandez representative Salcido representative Fierro and Representative Rivera are not present next item is item 26 and that is presentation and discussion on the capital improvement second quarter update for active programmed and completed capital projects good afternoon mayor and council I
 I'm Jerry DeMille with the Capital Improvement Department. IT, can you bring the presentation up? You look the same in real than on IT in teams. Except I don't have my headphones on. So in your slide deck that you have, there's a lot more slides that I'm going to go through today. We'll put in the detail behind the presentations just focusing on the highlights. IT, I also want to mention that there is a video which forms the last slide in the deck.
 So we're here to talk about our second quarter results for the capital improvement department before you get started. I do welcome representative Rodriguez that City Council welcome go ahead sir former representative Rodriguez. So for the presentation today, I'm gonna provide an overview of the active project summary year-to-date results and accomplishments and highlights I
 Obviously, we're still seeing the effects of COVID in terms of supply chain and costs as well as staffing. This has caused some increases in some of our projects, but we've managed to cover with contingencies that we have or savings from projects that were completed. Our strategic plan alignment is goal four and seven, enhance El Paso's quality of life through recreational, cultural, and educational environments, and enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure network.
 We're constantly working on improvements. We have CID internal controls, our project managers and the training they go through. We have processes in place for project management. We have vendors, and we manage the performance of these vendors through our vendor performance management system. And we have support staff. We have a number of external dependencies, including user groups, stakeholder utilities, administration, service departments, and the public. Going to our second quarter results.
 These are the projects that are currently active. There are 21 in predesign, 45 in design, 58 in bidding, and 77 in construction for a total of 196 active projects.
 This is our FY22 and FY23 results. You can see in FY22 we encumbered, which means we allocated funding for $171 million worth of projects, and year-to-date we've allocated $68.6 million. Our expenditures to date are $46.4 million, and our impacts for the spending are $46 million in total, equating approximately $23 million in labor costs,
 supporting over 2,800 direct jobs. And since September 2011, we have generated approximately 44,212 jobs. Spending and employment, direct spending, 19 million indirect and induced in 2023, 11.4 for a total of 30.4. And employment impacts, 2,888 total, 1,444 for a total of 4,332. We have worked with over 227 active contractors and subcontractors.
 And here are some of our accomplishments. We completed nearly 1,000 projects, year to, or program to date since 2011. The projects are not in one location, they're spread across the city, and they vary in size from a natatorium to much smaller playground improvements and things of that nature.
 So we've completed 28 projects to date. We have the Neighborhood Improvement Program projects, which are currently in progress. We have a number of park equipment projects, which are in progress. The fire station, recreation center, and library renovations are in progress. And construction is ongoing on the east side regional command center, Mexican-American cultural center, fire station 36, children's museum, and street reconstruction projects.
 We anticipate the Eastside Regional Command Center to be complete with construction in January of 2024. Mexican American Cultural Center should be complete in September of this year. Fire Station 36 in June of this year. And the Children's Museum, it's uncertain as a result of the recent fire. These are the projects that we have completed in FY23 so far. And this is the number of streets that have been constructed over the years. 499 streets have been resurfaced since 2013.
 and IT if you could bring up the video. This is a video highlighting some of our 2023 accomplishments. It's a great idea. We all need to exercise. We all need to lose a little bit of weight, and I think it's well done. It looks very nice. I just think it makes the whole city look a lot more prettier and makes it a whole lot safer to travel. It just makes me thrilled. I'm just so happy it's opening again.
 It's a great skate park. It allows for both people who like to skate pools and people who like to street skate. It's like perfect. I love it. I love it. El Paso definitely needs it. The Northeast definitely needed something like this. And that is the extent of the presentation. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to entertain them. As I mentioned, in your package, you have additional slides which shows additional detail than I provided. I just went over the highlights. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thanks mayor and Jerry I apologize. I just closed the presentation on my computer, so I'm not gonna have page numbers I have simple questions. So the nation's Tobin's pool and sports center roof two separate projects, right? What was the funding source for the pool? The pool roof was funded through certificates of obligation
 That's for the pool roof. But the pool itself is currently closed and not operational? That is correct. So we're improving the roof for a pool that's not usable? No, we improved the roof over the ice rink. Yeah, but it also says pool. That's what I was asking. Is it the pool or the pool roof? It's the rink. We did not put a roof on a non-functional pool. Okay, but you have it listed up there still. I'll correct that next time. But it was funded, though.
 through and so okay so we've just completely abandoned the nation Tobin pool in general there's no future plans for funding to open that pool or any of the pools in the area not to my knowledge and that additional funding that was funded through the certificates of obligation what has happened with that the additional funding for the pool well for the pool roof that's not being fixed I guess no the rink but on your slide it also said yeah I made a mistake
 that so was that not funded at all my understanding is it was funded and then the pool broke and so now it's not being funded it was not funded okay it was funded but there was insufficient funds to do it and since the pool was closed we did the rink okay so that money went into the rink
 Yeah, disappointing. Would love to get those pools open. I know we have the aquatic centers. I think the city manager himself said when we open those aquatic centers, you know, the smaller public pools are important for those people who can't afford the aquatic centers, and there's not one of them open in Central right now, right, neither Grandview or Nations Tobin's. And so I think the...
 Council had put money towards fixing that roof not sure why the conversation wasn't had with them about the funds needed to actually open the Pool, but I know you don't make those decisions Jerry I'm just stating that my other one and I asked this to you all of the time in public and private But I'm gonna ask it one more time the lower Beaumont project is still considered active But we do not have a lease agreement for that land. Is that correct? That is correct the project has to get deputy assistant secretary the army approval and
 The submission package went back and forth between MCOM and DASA and finally wound up at DASA in, I'd venture to say, December. Last week I learned that DASA asked Fort Bliss for additional information. They believe now that the concept approval will be provided.
 within the next couple of weeks that allows us to turn back on design finalize the program programmatic agreement for historical resources and begin to negotiate the lease that's great that's great news congratulations happy to hear it i'm happy it's been a long time i wasn't expecting that answer really threw me off but um exciting if you could just keep me updated on that thank you
 If I may there are plans for improvements to the facilities that you mentioned Missanello with respect to what I said yesterday in terms of a 2024 bond package for consideration that council needs to have a discussion about and then work on whether or not you want to approve that or not and
 But there's a lot of facilities like the ones just discussed that need a lot more money than just roofs. And so we are working on a plan. It's just a matter of whether or not you wanna go forward with some kind of fund plan in the future to make those happen. Because there's a great need, not only in the facilities that were discussed just a while ago, just a little while ago, but there's a great need in all city facilities in terms of the dollars necessary in order to renovate and to refurbish a lot of them.
 Thank you Hi Jerry great presentation. I missed some of it wanted to see We got a notice to proceed notification in my office regarding the multi-purpose Center Wanted to see if you had any additional information on that we're ready to go forward we gave the contractor approval to order the materials and begin construction and By chance do you have scope of work?
 The scope of work does not include the HVAC. It includes some improvements to the pool area itself and, I believe, some restroom upgrades. Oh, no. I believe initially we had talked about HVAC. Has there been any changes and why? There's insufficient funding to do the HVAC at this time. We are looking for other resources. Yes.
 Sam Rodriguez, Chief Operations Officer. So the HVAC system is, you know, Representative Hernandez is in need of replacement. So we are working with a contractor to establish pricing so that we can establish a funding source for that. I know that, you know, it is our only therapeutic pool that is in the city's inventory. Correct.
 being able to regulate that heat, especially in the pool areas is really important. I know that the public has, you know, been waiting for their pool. It's been closed for some time. So I would urge for a solution to come forward and council, you know, may be biased because this is my district, but it is an asset that El Paso's across the entire city use and so my hope is that this body can give that direction so that we can have
 give back their pool and turn it over all completed at once as opposed to you know closing it again in the future and so I would just ask if we can you know present an option for council for approval yes sir Thank You Sam Thank You Jerry thank you sir okay thank you for the presentation no action on that item next item is item 27 management update petition to add a climate policy to the city charter
 good afternoon ma'am good afternoon mayor and council nicole farini climate and sustainability officer if i t can bring that presentation up thank you so i'm in front of you today to bring forward some additional information regarding proposition k the amendment to add climate policy to the city charter
 Just a little bit of history so that we all kind of know where we've been and where we're going. On July 25th of 2022, Ground Game Texas submitted a petition to the city clerk's office proposing to add climate policy to the city charter. On August 2nd, 2022, the November 2022 city charter amendment election is delayed through May 2023.
 In November of 2022, the city clerk's office did ultimately certify that the petition was deemed to have the requisite number of signatures. And in February of 2023, the city council ordered a special election for the submission of the citizen-led petition to add climate policy to the city charter. What is Proposition K? Proposition K is a proposition that will be included on the ballot in May of 2023, including climate policy into the city charter. And I'm going to get into in a moment what that climate policy means.
 Why is Proposition K on the ballot? Well, Proposition K is on the ballot because the city council approved placing 10 proposed amendments, those are your propositions A through J, to the city charter. And an 11th amendment was added because of the citizen-driven petition. Understanding the impacts of
 This particular proposition is incredibly important, and as directed by the council following the February 7th action, staff was directed by you all to provide an analysis of those potential impacts from Proposition K. Specifically, you all asked us to look at three things. The potential fiscal impact to the municipality, which I will get into in a moment, is actually required by law. The potential impact to the city bond rating, that was a specific question that came to the staff from the council.
 and the precedent and process for municipalization of the electric utility. Just going back one step, I mentioned that we are required by law to take a look at the fiscal impact to the municipality. And I'm going to say that one more time just for clarity. We are looking at fiscal impact to the municipality, to the city of El Paso. This is pretty important as I get into the numbers.
 The law says that we have to estimate the anticipated fiscal impact to the municipality if the proposed amendment is approved at the election, which is what I'm here to present to you today. But let's break down some basics. What is the objective of the climate policy as described in Proposition K? Well, it's to pursue three main goals. These goals are garnered directly from the petition itself and from the ballot language.
 To reduce the city's contribution to climate change. Second, to invest in an environmentally sustainable future. And third, to advance the cause of climate justice. What types of initiatives will be included on the climate policy amendment? The proposed amendment includes the creation of a climate department that we'll be reporting directly to the city council. Definition of climate goals for the city and the community of El Paso.
 Promotion of climate jobs, development of renewable energy generation, and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, among a few other things. Those are the main initiatives that are indicated in the climate policy amendment. Will there be a fiscal impact to the municipality with regard to the passage of Proposition K? The answer to that question is yes.
 We spent quite a bit of time, and I'm going to walk you through that, working on what those anticipated costs would be internally in terms of staffing and additional resources required. But we've also engaged third-party expertise. We engaged a group called Year Out Energy to really take a look at how the, particularly the renewable energy goals and the energy efficiency goals, would have an impact to the municipality fiscally.
 The bottom line here is that the fiscal impact through 2045, so from today to 2045, we are anticipating $154,995,000. The annual fiscal impact is estimated at 4.125936, right? So just a little over $4.1 million per year. Those are separate numbers and we felt like to be fully transparent, we needed to be clear about what this would cost annually to operate
 and ultimately what it would cost in the long run. Here is a breakdown of those costs. I'm happy to answer any questions specifically about any one of these. We did break this down, and this has been published publicly, by section of the proposition itself. I want to reiterate how much...
 diligence and care we put into this, really looking at every single section and trying to understand both what those costs were going to be again in the long run through 2045 and which of these would impact us on an annual basis. What we do also know outside of the costs that we have published here is that there are some known unknowns. There are some things that we know we don't know.
 Number one, all of the estimates that you saw on the previous slide for Proposition K are projections. They are based on available data and current market conditions. They do not reflect potential fluctuations in inflation.
 They also do not include costs for upgrading existing municipal facilities to accommodate things like rooftop solar, EV charging, and other advanced technologies. What do I mean by that? I just want to be clear. The numbers that you see that are projected from year-out energy in terms of what it will cost us to get a certain amount of renewable energy for city facilities by a certain year
 is literally a calculation of how much energy we need to produce and how much solar we need to do that. It does not include an estimate or an analysis of every single city facility that may or may not need to be upgraded structurally or in other ways in order to accommodate that. So I want to be very clear about what's included and what we're saying we don't know.
 Ongoing maintenance costs for that rooftop solar and or charging, other advanced technologies that may be implemented, those costs are not included in this number. Other green building measures that we may want to take advantage of as we move forward in greening our city building stock.
 These are not part of Prop K, but we may want to consider them. Things like water conservation, stormwater management, indoor air quality, and materials waste reduction. And without getting overly in the weeds about this, what I will tell you, for example, if we as a community say that a priority is to have better indoor air quality in our buildings, often indoor air quality systems use more energy.
 And so we've got to start to make decisions about what our priorities are, facility by facility. And so this is why this is included as something we know we don't know. Because as we move through this and we better understand the priorities of the community and the facilities that we're considering upgrading, we will better understand what those costs are. But this is as good as we can get in terms of what that renewable energy by demand will cost.
 We also don't know currently what the impact of the ban on utilizing city water for fossil fuel industry activities outside of the city limits would be. As well as we don't know the impact of the cancellation of those contracts and that's mostly due to the legalities that we don't yet understand about how that would occur. And finally,
 We don't have a solid number. We know we don't know what it would cost to ultimately municipalize El Paso Electric beyond the feasibility study. Now I'm gonna get into that one. So how much would it cost for the city to purchase El Paso Electric? This is a question that I think a lot of you have been asked. It's certainly a question that I've heard on many occasions. Very, very clear. It is unknown, and I would argue impossible to know today at this time what it would cost to municipalize El Paso Electric.
 the city has to conduct a feasibility study we have to determine an estimated cost for that municipalization i also want to point out here and i'm going to iterate it again in a moment municipalization is a very different process from private sector acquisition okay and so it's not an apples to apples comparison to make some of those assumptions
 The feasibility study, however, we did engage a group called H. Bailey Group, who has extensive experience in this sector, and the feasibility study from them is estimated to cost about $12 million and will take us about 8 to 10 years to complete. Now, that $12 million is spread across that 8 to 10 years, and a lot of that can vary as the process moves forward. However, this is the responsible way to study something of this magnitude.
 We do know, however, I want to be fair and I want to share what we do know. The utility was sold to IIF for $4.3 billion in 2020. But as I have mentioned, municipalization and private sector acquisition is not the same thing. EP Electric has advised us that they have added assets to the utility since that time, and they estimate that they have nearly doubled in value over the last three years.
 Additionally, El Paso Electric has advised us that they intend to invest an additional $2 billion in infrastructure over the next five years. These are all factors that will be very, very important as we pursue a feasibility study if that is in fact the direction we go. At this time today, the estimated value is about $8 billion according to El Paso Electric. The utility is also not for sale at this time. Okay, I've shared a lot of facts.
 An argument might be made, based on some of the information that I've shared, that acquiring the El Paso electric system will be $4.3 billion because that's what they were acquired for in 2020. That acquisition price is not a good proxy for acquiring, setting up a standalone city-owned utility. There's an incredible complexity to that. And again, as I reiterated earlier, municipalization is a different not only legal process but also financial process in order to make sure that it achieves the goals that we're looking for.
 At this time, I want to turn it over to Laura Cruz, who's going to talk a little bit about our community outreach and some community meetings that are coming up. Laura? For the record, Laura Cruz, ACOSA Communications Director for the City of El Paso. So as you see here on the screen, we will be hosting eight community meetings throughout the community. There is a ninth community meeting on April the 12th that is not listed here.
 I didn't list that one here. The organization asked us not to promote it necessarily because it's a small space. They're concerned about the amount of people that they can fit in that space. It is for, I will tell you, it is for the El Paso Democrats, West Side Democrats is the name of the organization, but they will be promoting it within their own organization.
 The one thing I do want to mention to you all here, and I'm going to go ahead and click on the link here, you'll see the website. The website there is active, and it provides a lot of information for the community that you can already start to share with your constituents. It does have the list of the...
 community meetings on this. It also has the ordinances that the council, the council members pass, the two ordinances
 to call for the two special elections, as well as the actual citizen-led petition, in addition to the information that Nicole just shared with you in terms of Proposition K, the financial impact related to that. And then, and I'll click on that link especially, this is of special importance, I guess, to the community who continue to ask questions related
 to the funds, the financial impact of that. But it does include all of the information that Nicole just provided for you all in addition to the breakdown of that information. Again, it also asks a question about the purchase of El Paso Electric.
 And we also include on here a list of FAQs of all of the frequently asked questions that we've been getting regarding these 11 propositions, in addition to a link to the El Paso, the Elections Department and our charter in general for all of that, and detailed in terms of all of the propositions that we have in place in addition to Proposition K.
 So we encourage folks to go ahead and please visit that website. It is on the homepage as well. Click on the homepage. You will see it here on this button here. It is on the homepage listed for anybody who wants to share that information.
 Thank you for that. Thank you, Laura. And I just have one last thing that I would like to add before I open it up for any questions that you all have. I mentioned on the very first slide that you all did ask us to investigate the potential impact on the bond rating. I do want to say that while I don't have that information today, we have engaged an economist, Dr. Stephen Niven, who will be producing a report for us. We are working with him currently, and I hope to be able to bring that information back to you all in short order. Thank you very much. And I think it's important to note that –
 proposition k was brought forward by a group of citizens that collected over 39 almost 40 000 signatures and it's not something the city put on the on the charter election but it was brought forward and we um based on the signatures uh as we make sure they have proper signatures we have to bring it forward and we're bringing it forward as as but again it wasn't something that the city is bringing forward on their own
 Representative Piro. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Actually, my question is for our city attorney. Are we going to put the dollar amount on the ballot? No, sir. It's not required to be on the ballot. It's required to be published in the newspaper, and we have to publicize it then, but it's not on the ballot. And then second question, I'm not sure for whom, but what is the estimate cost to the city for this project?
 this being on the ballot. Ms. Primes? Thank you, Ms. City Attorney. Oh, Ms. Cruzacosta has that answer. So for this item to be on the ballot is a question. It is 700, no.
 it's about 690 one thousand dollars that's the estimated cost well let's be fair this is not this item is not on the agenda on its own there's uh actually there's a charter election there's other elections that are being on there so this is just added on there it there is no additional cost by uh by us adding it on to the charter election well
 For clarity, the item was scheduled for November, so it was an additional cost in terms of hosting this special election. No, no, but I'm saying this particular item by itself is not costing us $700,000. No. I just wanna make sure we're fair to them. When that question was asked was, what is this item costing to be brought to
 the voters, it's part of an election and it's not itself costing us $7,000. Correct, with the exception that it was a special election that wasn't scheduled, it wasn't programmed. It was a special election because of the delay
 And so it's an additional $700,000 that the council did not plan for. That's a whole election, not just as one item. For the mayor's point, I mean, we already had something scheduled for this time. Remember, we have a charter election. We have items on the charter election that we were supposed to bring in in November. Correct. And we postponed the charter election to May.
 And based on that, any item does not itself burden the cost. It is an additional cost of $700,000, but like the mayor said, all the items that are made up that are going to be voted on, what he's stating and he's right, all of that equals $700,000. But for this not occurring, you would have either done it in November or waited until the next election, and it wouldn't have been an additional $700,000, although you have several items listed for the election.
 And you can see it on the screen right now, for example, that Nicole had mentioned earlier. It was originally scheduled for November, and because it was delayed, we brought it forward to or push it back to May. So, Mr. Farrell, bottom line, it is an additional $700,000. Correct. You just have more than one item on there to be considered. Correct. All right. Yes, sir. Thank you. Representative Mayor Pro Tem. Hi. My questions are for Nicole. Okay.
 Nicole, I think this is a great presentation. You know, I know there's a lot of concern over several things on this proposition, but you were tasked with looking at the cost of what we could control. And I want to shift that conversation a little bit because these are big numbers. That's not untrue. But, I mean, and this is a rhetorical question. I would never ask you this. I'm not asking this. But, like, 2045 is 22 years away. Yeah.
 If this is too high of a number, when would be a good date? I mean, climate change is a very serious issue. And so I want to shift the conversation to the federal grants that are available. One, we did miss the deadline by a couple months, but the Energy Efficiency and Conservative Block Grant, which had $225 million for, yeah, it says the deadline was February 9th, 2023.
 did that not pass that what is today's date is march i'm sorry i just i was uh you're talking about the eecbg yeah uh eecbg is something that we are um looking to deploy into this sure but and so i'm just trying to have the conversation about what are the dollars that are available for that right yeah um and this is the whole grant the numbers are about to give it's not like one municipality is going to get this right but 225 million for building upgrades 550 million total projects yeah
 if you got 10 of that it would be covering the four million dollars that you're talking about one that i found that was super interesting is totally side tracking um is the three million dollars per um applicant for actual constituents home improvements which are similar to the fee we had talked about with texas gas i'm sorry i went off on a side note but thought that was really interesting because the federal government is taking really proactive steps into doing this
 And so, you know, and there's also the EPA has a grant that's available right now that I believe is about $20 million, but they want to issue about $21 million grants for cities and nonprofits and counties to upgrade their large vehicles, right? So we're looking at, I know we're already looking at buses, but there's also our trash vehicles. So there are dollars out there.
 And I'm not sitting here and in any way saying that these numbers are false. No, these numbers are very realistic. And instead of sitting here, and I know we're going to hear some of it, this is too expensive. It's unattainable. It is expensive, but it's not unattainable. And I think that 2045 is a good goal. And for those who are going to say, you know, I really disagree with it, my question would be like, well, then what's a reasonable year for you?
 because I don't think we have that long when it comes to a lot of these things. I think it's really important. I know that's why you're here. I know you are not up here disagreeing with me, but I think it's really important that we start today looking for the funding to do these things. So in no way am I supporting this proposition.
 I'm saying that we as a body need to be understanding what the resources are available to us to move towards a more energy efficient body. Body? No, that's not right. Organization. Organization and community. Yeah. So if I may...
 Stepping aside from the Proposition K discussion, because I want to make sure that I stay very fair with that conversation that's extremely important to all of us, what I will say with regard to some of the federal funding that you're mentioning, we've got CPRG, which is a climate pollution reduction grant. We've got EECBG, which is really going to be focused on
 on helping our most vulnerable communities get to a place where renewable energy and energy efficiency is affordable for them. That's something we've been focused on for a long time. I just want to assure you that either way we are looking at those sources and we absolutely, you know, we need to take advantage of the fact that
 the federal government is leaning in this direction right now. We don't know how long that will stay that way and so I think that there's a lot of opportunities that we have taken advantage of and that we plan to take advantage of and I would also just say that our climate action plan that I presented on a couple of weeks ago I think is going to be hyper focused not only on identifying what is best for the municipality
 but also what is best for the entire community because those things are very separate and that is the only point that I'll step back over a little bit into Proposition K and talk about the number to make sure we're all clear. When we say 80% renewable energy by 2030 and 100% by 2045, we are talking about the municipality. We are talking about the city of El Paso facilities. We are not talking about community-wise. So just wanna make sure that that's clear that that's where the number comes from.
 Yeah, no, absolutely. And, you know, we don't have control over other people's businesses. And again, I know that there are things that are in that proposition. I know we've heard a lot from small businesses where they're concerned with going to increase their cost. I don't think that those are unreasonable concerns. That is not what you're talking about today, though. Right.
 What you were talking about specifically is what the financial impact on the city would be to make the city and all of our fleets and our buildings renewable by 2045. And I just want to say, nothing to do with the proposition, just these numbers alone, because I think whether the proposition passes or does not, this is a conversation we still need to be having, and I think that these are realistic numbers when you look at the federal dollars that are available.
 I think people see these numbers, I mean, $155 million is a lot of money. But with the amount of grants that there are, it may be not attainable within that time frame, but not unrealistic to attain. Any of that make sense? Got it? It absolutely did. Thank you. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. Yes, sir. Mine are simple, Ms. Vereen. I'm sorry. Mine are simple. On the committee meetings that are set, whoever wants to answer them, are you going to have –
 Spanish translators and interpreters present? Laura Cruz again. Yes, we can have interpreters. We will be asking the community to let us know because in our experience, when we bring forward interpreters, oftentimes there's nobody who needs the interpreters and they can be available. And once the community meetings are presented and over with, and you'll usually have people that can't attend, the elderly, disabled, who can't attend those meetings in some sort of way,
 Is the city going to send some kind of notice to them through the mail, or is it, I can ask legal, is that still against, would that be against the regulations on that?
 Are we we are we are going to put out a postcard in order to remind folks that one that there is a website available for them to get more information and two in terms of when the election is going to take place. Keep in mind we city staff are in city resources and funds cannot be used for any level of advocacy.
 We are using this postcard only for educational purposes to advise the community as to where the website is located and also when the election is taking place. Okay, and got you. And that's why I asked for legal because I remember them telling us that. But what if they don't even have a –
 A computer to look at how are we gonna get the information to them? Right representative? There are gonna be some mailers but as was mentioned earlier and introduce yourself. I apologize Kristen Hamilton I
 The city by law is also required to publish the ordinance calling for the election. So the full text of the ordinance will be posted in the newspaper, it will be in the El Paso Times as well as the Diario once, El Paso Times twice. And it will be in English and in Spanish in both publications. And in that publication it will have the cost estimate for all of the climate policy amendments.
 So those will be in the newspaper. Okay, thank you. That answers those questions. Ms. Spring, I just have one for you. What if the utility doesn't decide to sell for 45 more years after 2045? So I think that that is why we just need to acknowledge that municipalization of a multi-jurisdictional service area for a community our size is something that is not a good thing.
 needs to be studied and I think that that's something that we would want to bring experts in to help us Manage that question. I'm not I'm not equipped to answer that question for you today And frankly, I think it could take five to eight years to answer that question properly. This is your good size. You have an idea that I
 um other than i i believe that what the discussion that's been had so far is is on point i think for example mizunello is correct the longer you wait the more it's going to cost the uh the numbers that are being presented to you today are conservative we think that they're actually would be higher we think that these numbers are very accurate but as they pointed out it doesn't take into account the cost of the supply chain issues what covet has done to the to the inflation and other factors like that that's included in the presentation that she shared with you
 In Irving, when I was there, and I've shared this with several council members, they are aware of this, and I was actually questioned about it so I could share some of the work that was done. It is accurate that you could get, can get, and even back in 06, 07, we were able to get grants to do like a net zero library. We were able to get grants to be able to do solar lighting,
 but the money that's available, you're not gonna get all of it, you'll get a portion of it. So the numbers that are being presented are on point. They're actually, we think, lower because of all the things that we've mentioned. Ms. Farini is not evading your question, but what she's doing is she's just caveating her answer by simply saying that the utility was purchased for 4.3 billion,
 They say they're not for sale and that their investments take their worth, in their opinion, to $8 billion. And again, they emphasize they're not for sale. So we know that it would be billions of dollars, but that's not what we're sharing with you all today in terms of what it costs the taxpayers. What we're sharing today is what the feasibility study would cost. So I think staff has been –
 on point with being very conservative and being very accurate so that both sides hear and understand that what we presented is very unbiased and very objective so that we just share the facts with you. And again, I thank you and I appreciate that, but let's be real. What if they're making a big profit and they don't want to sell?
 I mean, that's what she's saying and I'm saying. The public needs to understand that as well. Right, that's what we're saying that they've indicated they're not for sale and if they were for sale, it would be in the billions of dollars, not millions of dollars, with a B, as in Bravo. Okay, thank you so much, thank you. Mm-hmm, absolutely. Thank you, Representative. Yes, thank you, Mayor. And with that, we do have Representative Molinar and I know we have some public comment. Two people for public comment. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, so,
 Guess this question is for legal, please. So the fact that the El Paso electric has already stipulated Repeated itself many times they are not for sale What happens if proposition K does pass? Right Proposition K as miss Farini has discussed is to municipalize the electric
 There's gonna be a lot of just there if this passes there would be a lot of discussion on not only the practical But the legal implications of that so it's not a question that we would be able to answer today or Don't don't leave
 I was just going to add to everything. Okay, so to me it's like this. El Paso Electric Company, they have a monopoly because they're the only utility public, or excuse me, electrical utility for the city of El Paso. So they have a service area that extends near Hatch, New Mexico, all the way to Sierra Blanco, Texas. So we're talking about different jurisdictional issues. You're talking two different states, several counties, several cities,
 several municipalities, or towns, villages perhaps. And so they have a stake in the game as well. Because to me it's like, okay, we take it over. We have the $20 billion to buy it. So now we're gonna have to do all kinds of stuff. Go ahead, ma'am. I was just going to point you to some of the backup. We did include in the backup the report that Ms. Heather Bailey put together regarding what the process for municipalization might look like, and she actually addresses
 at a very, very high level in all fairness, what it might look like for, as I mentioned, a multi-jurisdictional service area, which is what we're talking about. So there would be a lot of, for lack of a technical term, slicing and dicing going on. So I think I would just refer you to that report in the backup, because it might help to make clear to your original question, if it passes, what happens?
 The report is pretty clear about the next step. Okay. Well some people don't have access to that backup So that's what I'm talking about it. Sure. So the other thing too is so We have the Public Utility Commission of Texas Stating you make so has a totally different Commission on utilities for them for that service area as well And so for this I guess for miss Laura Cruz Acosta. So on the website, are we in English and in Spanish? I
 Yes, all of our website across the city is English and in Spanish. Yes Do we have a QR code as well? We can create a QR code. Sure. Okay. All right I just want to make sure that people have total access Different ways to communicate that we're being transparent and clear on different things like that And so have we had any communications with a past electric one-on-one? I
 team meeting in person anything like that with miss kelly tomlin or anybody else no sir i have not had any direct meetings with el paso electric regarding proposition k at this time okay and why not yeah because it's it's um it would be precarious for us to do so regarding this issue i mean i think we meet with el paso electric on the regular um about a number of different ongoing initiatives but it my understanding is it would be not be appropriate for us to do that at this time okay all right thank you yeah
 Thank you. Ms. Cruz-Costa, is there a possibility of additional presentations if asked? Yes. Yes. There is always an opportunity for anybody to request that. There is on the website also a way to contact.
 the city. So at any point in time, anybody can ask for additional meetings or information at any point in time. Thank you for that. And Mayor, with respect to additional information, we can get into the details with regard to the financing. I know that some of these things wouldn't be
 But we wouldn't do COs for them as an example. I mean, and just for full disclosure, I got asked by the media about this, and told them some of this might be general obligation bonds that I'd be voted on by the public, and we did not include interest on those dollars. We just included what it would cost in real dollars, not actual interest. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Diana? We do have Richard Dayup, Mr. Dayup, and it's going to be followed by Nicole Reese.
 So you have three minutes Thank You Diana mayor members of council city manager for the record Richard Day you principal for Thunderbird management consulting I represent a number of business organizations throughout the community both in the city and just outside the city and various County jurisdictions all of whom Have expressed strongly to me their opposition to this initiative I
 a lot has been said about this subject not only here today but throughout the various meetings that have already occurred throughout the community and certainly we're just getting started over the next several weeks before we reach the may 6 ballot date a lot more will be said about this i won't bore you with repeating some of the information that was already provided by miss farini i'm allowed to be a little bit more
 Clear in my position on this than the city or city staff are permitted to do the reality of it is however Well-intentioned this group sunrise El Paso are in terms of what they want to have accomplished and and we applaud them Many of the businesses I represent many of the businesses in El Paso have already been taking steps to reduce their carbon footprint as the phrase goes in the community and
 the problem with all of this is and it was alluded to a moment ago in some of the questions that were asked and the responses that you received by staff is these costs that were plugged in that were just shared with you are related only to the properties owned by the city of el paso and even those are not absolute they're just estimates to begin with to be able to take this to the next level and involve such issues as water being provided
 services for businesses outside the city limits would just as an example how do we build without concrete and how do you produce concrete without water it's just one simple example but the ramifications to that relate to so many other businesses across our community that haven't even been considered the acquisition of El Paso electric as you've already stated I'll state it more strongly is patently absurd
 It is beyond the capacity of the taxpayers in this community to carry the burden and to the questions related to grant funding for various projects even for the city. Yes, there are grant dollars available and
 But I want to remind everyone, they're not free dollars just because we get them through the federal government. We're all paying for those things. And that's the last thing any citizen in our community or across the country needs is a greater tax burden. I see I'm running out of time. I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you. Unless I missed my point, I'll state it lastly, and that is we are emphatically opposed to this initiative. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Next person is Nicole Ruiz.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and city representatives. Nicole Reese, Director of Government Affairs for the El Paso Chamber. And I just want to say I appreciate all of the questions you were asking today during the presentation. Today I'll be making a few comments on behalf of our CEO, Andrea Hutchins. Yesterday, the Texas Tribune published an article calling the climate charter a manifesto.
 It is no wonder giving that the authors of this charter refer to one another as comrade and publicly discuss their desire to take back control of the government. It does make one wonder what their true goals are in passing this vague piece of legislation. When the description of the details changes whenever challenged or questioned. Recently a group behind Prop K sent out a poll asking who would win the next race for mayor.
 Could their desire be to create high ranking positions for new staff in the city while competing or strategizing for the highest of elected officials in the city be the true method and motivation behind the charter. It is obvious that we won't truly know the motivation behind a group whose own definitions change daily. Most recently this group put out a release in response to the pushback they've been receiving from the business community and that release talked about everything but the details of the actual charter.
 Instead it talked about inspirational goals outlined by the charter. It implied that the IRA would be responsible for delivering hundreds if not thousands of climate jobs to El Paso if we would just pass the charter. We do not need to tell you. Federal stimulus does not create jobs. Businesses create jobs. If we should find ourselves in a community with a business climate that pushes away business, we will have no jobs.
 Recently, the economic impact analysis provided by the chamber was referred to as fear mongering. However, we provided a research intensive report detailing the economic impact of the charter. Today, you have learned the extreme cost that the city will be forced to undertake if the climate charter passes. These numbers do not include investments required by EPISD, El Paso County, and other governmental entities, and certainly not the private sector. Thank you.
 Our numbers took into account what could happen should voters pass Prop K. Because as you know, the city charter is not a mission statement. It's not a set of goals. It is a set of rules, laws, and regulations which governs a community. The words of our city charter matter. Vaguely written city charter amendments are a losing court battle and will undoubtedly cost our taxpayers money, which we cannot afford. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you for your time. Should we move on to the next item? Please. Next item, please. No action on item 27. Next item is item 28, budget update, five-year financial forecast. All right. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Nicole Cody. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon, sir.
 So today we're going to be talking about the five-year financial forecast. We'll be covering, of course, our calendar and the strategy that brought us to this point, along with any challenges in the forecast itself. So the integrated budget process, as you can see is depicted here, is truly focused on our mission, vision, and values, and integrated with both communication and our strategic
 Here you'll see an overview and I'll cover this again at the end of the presentation. There's also the budget process timeline. And so these are really a focus. We're focusing on long term financial sustainability. It truly is a cautionary tale. It took us great time to a lot of time to get here. And as you can see the being proactive and not reactive
 is really a key component of our financial sustainability. The tools that we look at as part of financial transformation include our continuous improvement but also include the creation of those funding in our operating budget our PAYCO funding for our priorities as we continue to focus on economic development strategies in order to help increase the revenues in our area and reduce the tax burden on our taxpayers through poverty tax.
 Additional tools that you'll see also include the creation of the stabilization fund. In addition, how we've used debt refinancing to lower the tax burden and the debt service portion on our taxpayers. So what is that strategy? How are we focusing on strategy? And how it's important both in short-term and long-term for our financial sustainability.
 Well the strategy as you see here is the financial transformer transformation that we've seen over the past seven years and you've heard the city manager talk about seven years of zero findings for external audit and it is a significant accomplishment and it speaks to the dedication the commitment of the staff the teams the city manager has created as well as city leadership to focus on the results for our community which includes the transit system turnaround includes
 us being truly financially sustainable. And so it's important that we understand what that means beyond just the results that we see here.
 So it means also looking at how we leverage grants. So you'll see it's $69.9 million for total competitive awards. This is in one year, these are the number of grants that we received for the city of El Paso to help provide additional funding sources for the needs that we have here for our city.
 And also increasing our general fund reserves to go from nine days in 2014 to 91 days is truly a different view, a different horizon that we see for El Paso.
 When we were at with nine days in our reserves, it creates a bleak picture. It's a bleak picture for those who want to invest in El Paso. For us to be able to also invest in the services and the continuing needs and the expected resources and services that our community demands of the city of El Paso. It limited us, it tied our hands, so to speak, to be able to move forward and so today,
 When you look at the collective bargaining agreement that we saw this morning, it really allows the city to be able to move forward and to be able to make those significant changes and investments in our departments and in our cities and in our employees.
 So how do we do that? So as part of the FY 2023, we look at helping our community. So while we've had no tax rate increase, while we also looked at increasing the homestead exemption savings, we also had savings on the Texas gas. This council, the city council, had voted to ensure that they are reducing the burden on our taxpayers, that they're reducing the burden on our El Pasoans, on our community.
 by reducing the cost of utilities, ensuring that we're identifying additional revenues, additional strategies to be able to assist the city and grow so we're not relying solely on property tax revenue, as well as the rental and utility assistance and small business assistance that our community needs. So the property tax bill,
 What does it look like? So we talk about how we're 29% of the overall bill. So that's less than one third. The remaining is of course the school districts, our community college, the county and UMC. And so when we talk about those economic incentives, you've heard Elizabeth Triggs come up and discuss how there's a portion, it's a portion of the overall property tax bill and we are really truly helping the other agencies.
 We're helping the other agencies because as we see continued investment, capital investment in our community, then that means that there's less impact on the residents. It's going to be on a commercial capital investment and it helps the other agencies. The school district, which is the majority of your property taxes, it helps them to see increases in valuations so then they're not raising their property tax rates to be able to get the same amount of revenue.
 So you'll also see here what's included. So we talked about goal two which is public safety at 59.6 percent followed by quality of life and infrastructure and then we'll we've talked about this in the previous presentations as well. But it's really important to note with 60 percent of the budget being public safety you it's important we communicate and continue to support.
 So here you'll see those budget highlights which include the police and fire academies for FY 2023 that continued sorry vehicle replacement of seven million dollars and ten million dollars for street and traffic improvements.
 In addition to that, you'll see, of course, unfortunately the delay that we're seeing in Children's Museum, but the Children's Museum, the Mexican-American Cultural Center, our penguin exhibit that everyone's very excited about, as well as the Joy Barraza and Vino Regional Park. And overall, you also see the impact or the increases that we've had on our minimum wage, and it's something that we know that council has added to their goals by the vote that we saw in the previous council meeting.
 So as we continue to look forward, we're looking also at our budget priorities, which was, as the city manager mentioned this morning, is really police staffing. Where do we need to be at? What do we need to increase our police staffing? And ensuring that by the approval that you had this morning of the collective bargaining agreement, that we're in a position in order to be able to be competitive.
 that we're in a position for the city of El Paso to be able to hire the officers that we need for this community. In addition to that, we must continue to include both the operation and maintenance costs of the quality of life bonds and public safety bonds
 In addition, our focus on traffic safety measures, including the Vision Zero that you saw the presentation earlier this month, as well as traffic safety programs and the neighborhood traffic management plan. In addition to that, we continue to see the priority for our community through chime in of street resurfacing projects and the needs that we know we continue to have in vehicle replacement, workforce investment, and further on.
 So this is the slide that we showed. Of the past meetings that we've had, there's been three meetings since January, February and March.
 And we have talked at each of those meetings the importance of the workforce, the importance of our public safety, and the investments and importance of our quality of life capital projects, and then the fixed cost that we have as a city. So we've talked about this with 73% of the expenses being for personal services. And as I mentioned before, the 59.6% of the budget that goes to public safety or goal two.
 So we have increased over, since 2015, over $84.5 million has gone to public safety. That's close to a 40% increase in that amount of time.
 And so when we look at the major investments that we've talked about, which continue to be the priorities for our council and for our community, are both public safety, quality of life, and street resurfacing, that would be a $110 million investment, or 34 cents, on the tax rate. But in fact, the tax rate has only increased by 21 cents.
 And it's through strategy. It's through the continued strategy, both on the public safety and our economic development strategy, that allows us to be able to ensure that we have these results, the significant investments in our community, and still be able to maintain our tax rate. So we're looking at how do we minimize that impact to taxpayers while we continue to look at the services that we provide for our community. So our challenge is...
 is definitely economic uncertainty. Sales tax and property tax growth we know is not going to continue. If you look in the news right now, you'll see across the channels everyone's talking about the R word, recession. Are we headed towards a recession? It was similar talk last year, but this year it's a little different, right? We saw the Federal Reserve increase the rates last week another 0.25%, and then we saw...
 Previous to that, two banks, two large banks, failing. We saw that they rallied together and were able to save both of the banks. So that does lead us to indicate, right, there's a concern in lending, there's a concern in the market, and what will that mean for El Paso?
 So we also want to make sure that we're also minimizing the impact to taxpayers. We've heard time and time again it's a different economy. We've talked about how there's inflationary pressures for everyone. Everyone has seen the impact of inflation and so we're also looking at how we can ensure that we're addressing that not only for our employees but also for our taxpayers.
 In addition to that, you'll see the limitations that we have had through Senate Bill 2 by moving from 8% to a 3.5% increase without voter approval, of course, and then also the estimated surcharge on our sales tax. So I don't know if you all are aware, but right off the top, the state of Texas takes their portion to help us collect our sales tax of 2%.
 which equates to about three point three million dollars. So additional challenges that we face are of course our additional departmental needs. In addition to those we also have council budget requests and so we will be.
 We will be opening the council budget request portion of the budget process at the next council meeting. So we'll be able to provide you that information as well, as well as the decades of neglect that we've been facing with our aging infrastructure and facilities and equipment. As I mentioned, economic uncertainty continues to be a challenge and it's something that I'm going to continue to talk about because it's part of this five year financial forecast.
 So what are our budget drivers? What are those expanding services that we're looking at that the community is expecting? It includes both our public safety, our streets that we've talked about, residential resurfacing as well as neighborhood traffic management plans, and the continued needs for our bond projects such as the quality of life and public safety bonds. And ensuring that we're communicating
 as well as budgeting for those items and because we know what happens when we don't communicate and don't plan to include those operation and maintenance and investments that we have as we saw in the 2012 quality of life so future outlook so long-range forecast is really to be a tool it's important that we plan and the reason it's important we plan is the results in the strategy that you saw as part of the beginning of this presentation because in order to be able to
 approve and do the investments that we've seen for our workforce, for our uniformed employees, both police and fire, we need to have a plan. And we need to have not only the strategic plan, but also that financial plan on how we're going to be able to achieve the results and provide the services that our community not only expects but deserves.
 So the five year financial forecast is our multi-year financial outlook and so included in it and it's part of the backup to the agenda is not only the methodology but the economic forecast that we evaluate as well as expenditure and revenues that we'll cover today. And so I'll go over the expenditures and then Robert Cortinas our CFO will go over the revenue portion.
 So this is the five-year financial forecast. So for FY 2024, we're seeing a $17 million projected shortfall. So the $17 million is from the revenue portion of $538 million short of the $555 million, sorry, $555 million expenditures that we're projecting.
 So included in these expenditures, here you can see the breakdown of both of the forecasts. So on the top is going to be your revenues, and on the bottom is going to be your expenditures. So included in this forecast, we have the impacts of the new collective bargaining agreements with both police and fire,
 that have been approved. We also include the new academies for both police and fire as well, so that includes three academies for police and two academies for fire. We continue our vehicle replacement plan for both police and fire vehicles as well as $500,000, I believe, for civilian vehicles or light duty vehicles. We also continue to show the O&M impacts of both quality of life bonds and the public safety bonds.
 So here you'll see for the uniform salaries and benefits of the overall budget that does still equal 46.9% with the civilian salaries and benefits at 26.2% and then the remaining 26% operating costs. So our general fund expenditures, this really shows you a historical since FY 2019 all the way through the fall
 financial forecast and we have a little picture of the fire truck because it's important to remember that we've got both police and fire included in that bottom portion.
 So let's get into public safety. So we talked about public safety previously at the meeting that we had in February. And so it's a key component, as you know, since it is the majority of our budget and it really is an important part of what this city does is public safety for both police and fire. Here you'll see the police staffing, the historical police staffing and what we're projecting
 from not only for 23, because we still haven't completed this fiscal year, but also through 24 through 28.
 So when we look at staffing and when we talk about the collective bargaining agreement, it all folds into our public safety strategy. And the strategy itself, of course, has to have multiple facets. It includes not only our staffing but our capital and new replacement, our improvements in technology. And so staffing itself started with the Net 30 initiative to ensure that we were graduating
 seeing an increase of at least 30 officers every year. In addition to that becomes the collective bargaining. How are we going to be able to be competitive in the market? How are we going to be able to recruit for these academies? And so then we need to build up to the three academies a year. Each academy lasts between 10 to 11 months. We can't add three academies in one year just because of the timing. So in order to ensure we're graduating three academies we actually had to start this year.
 And you'll see in a slide later on when those academies are. In addition to that is the investment that was made as part of the drop forward program regarding their pension, as well as the different areas that we're looking at for retention of officers. And the collective bargaining agreement that was approved
 this morning I keep referring to it because it includes specific items that we're looking at truly being able to retain the officers retain the experience that Sergeant Bella mentioned this morning in order to be able to train the new recruits. In addition to that you'll see under the vehicle replacement also the technology so Representative Rivera and your great commitment to the police department in addition to the body worn cameras and the
 video recording system overall which includes the vehicles and then also The city manager has mentioned also the city watch program and I believe Assistant chief Xena also brought up both of those areas as well as the investments in the vehicles at the meet at the presentation yesterday. I
 So what's next is looking at that expansion. So Representative Salcedo, you mentioned as part of District 5 the expansion of the Far East Regional Command Center and how important it is to your community. So by adding that, it also requires an investment, as you know, in the officers and the equipment in order to provide that facility. So ensuring that is also built into the five-year financial forecast so you can see the impact of that as well.
 So here you'll see the projected police staffing and it relates to the staffing graph that I had just shown you in the previous slides where we're looking at truly being able to ramp up while 21, 22 and 23 had an impact on our overall net growth for the police department. We're really looking at trying to be able to overcome that by adding in the three academy, three graduations
 in FY 2024 and really being able to increase the number then moving forward by at least 50 officers. Here shows you the police academies, when they're scheduled and where they're currently at and it also shows the graduation dates for those that are initially coming up. We continue to look at the uniform retirement
 As I've mentioned before, that it's really important that we always have our finger on the pulse of our experienced officers to ensure that we're able to also project both their retirements and also ensure that we're going to see that net growth in the department.
 So future budget impacts, of course, we always continue to look at the impact that the collective bargaining agreements will have, the impact of the additional academies, as well as the operating costs and staffing that I talked about earlier.
 So overall what we're seeing is part of the projected for FY 2024 includes an increase of the $14 million that the city manager mentioned for the collective bargaining agreement. In addition also includes the academies and smaller academies at least initially as we start to hopefully see the impact of the competitive salaries on our ability to be able to recruit and be competitive for police officers.
 In addition to that, you'll see a $7 million increase for FIRE. Along with them, there are two academies of 35 graduates each. And then as Jerry mentioned in the presentation earlier today, with Fire Station 36 coming on board this June, as well as Fire Station 38 in January of 2025. Thank you.
 So here you'll see both police and fire salaries, and this also includes the impact of the academies. And so that's why you'll notice in 2025 and 26 moving forward, there's a slight difference or increase in those amounts and impacts for the overall salaries.
 So our investment in public safety continues, as we've mentioned, with fleet capital replacement for the replacement and investment of $18.8 million since 2019. And that's a significant investment considering before we did not have replacement dollars in the budget.
 In addition to that, we have $7 million funded for both police and fire, and we continue that vehicle replacement funding as part of the five-year financial forecast through 2028. And we will continue to look for available funding in order to increase that, knowing that the need for police and fire is really around $10 to $12 million a year.
 Here you'll see the list of the different items that we've seen capital investments on and the importance of investing in technology to ensure that our departments are able to continue to develop, continue to improve, and continue to serve the city.
 So here are the list of the public safety bond projects that we have and that what you'll see as part of the five year financial forecast and the operating budget. And so please note that this was originally presented as part of the presentations for the public safety bond back in 2019. While we continue to evaluate the numbers, ensure the numbers are correct, the actual overall plan as far as the academies, the impact on the equipment has not changed.
 And so we continue to look at a total increase just for the public safety bond of 13.4 million dollars for police and 14.4 million dollars for fire. So we also have as part of the budget and as part of this forecast the new and enhanced programs that we've seen.
 So this is the police enhanced programs that they have presented on, and these are these major areas with additional staffing, the requirements and additional staffing that are for these enhanced programs. And these programs are truly to serve our community and truly to ensure that we are being sensitive to the needs of the community in areas that they see are affecting our El Paso.
 So staffing needs beyond this also include, as we discussed, Far East Regional Command. They include the staffing needs as discussed by Assistant Chief Silva and the new Police Academy for the Public Safety Bonds, as well as the Downtown Regional Command. Here, this is what breaks down those positions as we initially look at it. It also includes the positions as requested
 as part of the body-worn camera or the digital recording system that was originally presented. So as we look at fire,
 We have, of course, the Fire Station 36 that's opening that we're all very excited to have, as well as Chief Killings had mentioned the SAFER grant. So we were awarded that SAFER grant for 21 firefighters. And then, of course, we have to build in the additional academy that we'll need for Fire Station 38, and then they had requested additional positions as well for the training academy itself for the expansion.
 And this reflects the graduation that we just recently had back in February and the upcoming graduation that we're anticipating in July. So the civilian workforce. On July 31st, we came to you, Araceli Guerra and myself, and really went over what have we done comprehensively for our workforce. It is so critical that it's always...
 that we always continue to ensure that we're communicating this because it's so important. Our workforce is of course the heart of the organization. So here you'll see overall that six years of pay increases
 No healthcare increases for four consecutive years, and I keep saying this, but it's very important, four consecutive years. I hear anecdotally people feel like their healthcare costs are going up, the healthcare, but it's not the premiums. The premiums are not going up.
 four consecutive years we have not changed the plan. That means we didn't change the deductions we didn't change the premiums we didn't change but and but there's still this perception right because the costs for everything continue to go up. But I want to assure you we have not increased health care for four consecutive years and in addition to that we continue to have the health savings account and contribution annual annually for the employees and for their families.
 We have increased the number of wellness clinics just for convenience for the employees to make it easier for them to be able to get the care they need. This slide is really impactful. So overall available compensation, benefits and incentives for employees is upwards of $15,224. So that reflects the wage increases,
 The performance evaluation if they decide to enroll in Shape It Up which we continue to encourage our employees to be part of Shape It Up. Are they use the health savings account or tuition assistance program and it continues to go on along with our perfect perfect attendance incentive and our sign on incentive for new employees. It really speaks to our commitment to our employees and the importance they are for us delivering exceptional services.
 So competitive wages, this is important to note that this is civilian only, but what we have here has been an increase in the minimum wage of approximately 17%, and it just went into effect this March 11th, I believe, the beginning of the pay period for March 11th. So our employees will see it in their paycheck this Friday.
 And so what this shows you is that we really looked at our entry level employees, the hourly employees, the minimum wage. It's that minimum rate that we're looking at increasing and ensuring that we're addressing
 where we're at for our entry level employees. We need each and every one of them and we need to ensure that we're able to retain our workforce. Once we've trained them, once we, the recruitment process, the training process, all of it has an impact on our ability to provide services. And so it's important that we retain our employees so that way we continue to provide, as I said, those exceptional services.
 Healthcare, as I mentioned, four consecutive years, and we see this in terms of rising costs in prescriptions. We continue to see increases in our costs for prescriptions overall. A lot of it's related to inflationary impacts that they're also enduring, but we just continue to see the prices rise.
 streets. As I mentioned, we have $10 million for resurfacing, $1.8 million for Vision Zero, as well as $1 million for facility renovations and then $250 for neighborhood traffic management programs. And then I believe yesterday Ms. Farini spoke about the ADA on demand request funding of $500,000.
 So we continue to have that in this projection as well, as well as the investments in quality of life and future investments for the remaining projects. So we've seen $20 million cumulatively invested in our quality of life departments. It's a significant investment. It's a significant investment considering one, it was not planned for and two, it was not communicated yet we were able to find a way to ensure that it was part of the budget.
 These are the list of the quality of life bond projects that have been completed. And as you saw in Jerry's presentation earlier today, there is a significant number of capital projects that have been completed throughout the city. And quality of life, of course, is an important area for our community. So as I discussed before, we have the Penguin exhibit coming up, and then unfortunately the delay in the Children's Museum, but also the Mexican American Cultural Center.
 Here again as I'm about to turn it over to Robert to cover revenues again shows the overall financial forecast with a budgetary shortfall of approximately seventeen and a half million dollars for 24 22 for 2025 and so forth. Thanks Nicole Robert Cortina is chief financial officer just to clarify So the information that you're seeing on this slide Everything beginning in 2024. These are all estimates and so this is information that's provided to you all on
 well in advance to really get it into the meat of the budget for the 2024 fiscal year. And so again, our integrated budget process, we're 147 days away from the actual adoption of the budget. And so between now and then is the time that we'll really start to fine tune the budget, really building upon a lot of the information that Nicole has already presented,
 What's going to drive the budget for next year and then closing that gap down to again develop the balanced budget that we will present When we do our 101 budget briefings in May and then again We'll do the budget public budget briefings to the community in late June and then ultimately with the adoption in August So just for clarification, I don't want anybody to look at this and think the city is operating at a deficit It's far far from the truth. In fact, this is actually a very good opportunity to not only present to the community or to the council but to the community as well and
 that shows how this process really works extremely well. Because as I mentioned, we're still 147 days away from the adoption of the budget. You're hearing a lot of the information well in advance so that we can be proactive in making the adjustments necessary to get down to that balanced budget. So just wanted to provide some context as to what we're working with on these slides here. So Nicole covered a lot of the meat of the budget of what's gonna drive us as far as the expenditure side, but obviously the most important piece is the revenues, right, because you can't,
 Budget what you're going to spend if you don't know what you're planning to bring in as far as the revenue so as we look at the general fund budget the primary sources of revenue for the general fund budget property taxes sales taxes and franchise fees as we look at property taxes We did receive preliminary preliminary reports from the central appraisal district. Miss Cody sent those out to you all forwarded those to you It's important to note. Those are Pre-preliminary and so what does that mean? These are very very early in
 Figures that they're compiling it includes some updates to the residential as far as what they did because they did reappraisals on all properties this past year, but it does not include Commercial values does not include updated industrial values does not include I'll see what's going to happen as far as protests over the next several months So again, just pre preliminary we utilize that information. We do comparisons using past reports that we received again doing that analysis and
 uh we'll receive another update from the prison district we'll actually receive the preliminary later in april and then we get updates throughout the rest of the several months through may june july and then we finally receive the certified values at the end of july which is what we use to calculate the tax rates for the no new revenue and the voter approval tax rates which will help guide the actual final recommendation on the property tax rate for fiscal year 2024
 And so up until this point, everything is preliminary estimates based on the information that we have again utilizing the historical data We are projecting just based on that pre preliminary report that we did receive to see a 9% increase in property values for next year I have a slide we'll get a little more detail on the actual property valuations but we are expecting to see almost another double digit growth in property values, which as Nicole mentioned is
 It's really, really good for FY2024 to see that strong growth in property values. However, when I share the slide on property values and historically, it's well, well above the actual average that we've seen as an organization. As we look to sales tax growth, again, sales taxes, as you've heard us say quite a bit over the last couple of years, has performed extremely well.
 of unprecedented growth in the last two fiscal years, continues to perform well this year. But again, we need to make sure that we're being very, very cognizant of the uncertainty surrounding current economic conditions as we're developing the budget for upcoming fiscal years because obviously we don't want to ever get into a situation where we're being overly optimistic with revenue assumptions because Mayor Leaser, as you're well aware, we saw that consequence in 2012, 2013, and 2014 with some of those revenue estimates not coming to fruition.
 So it's important that we're very, very conservative on those revenue estimates to ensure we're not impacting operations. So again, Nicole showed you the breakdown of the expenditures. This slide is a really good slide because it shows you the breakdown of the revenues and again really highlighting the key points here. Again, property tax, sales tax, and franchise fees makes up almost 83% of the revenue sources. So really reliant again on property values, looking at sales tax growth and the role that that plays, our second largest primary source of revenue.
 And then the revenue that received from the franchise the utilities for the use of the city rights away So this I chose your breakdown by those categories those three main categories and then the other the other categories include things such as revenue we receive from Licenses the permits revenue we received from the Parks Recreation Department Those type of things make up a small amount of an annual increase you'll see there in the bottom line there the annual increase over 25 million projected for FY 2024 and
 And then you'll see that sort of start to taper off beginning in 2025. And again, as I mentioned, fiscal year 2024 really being driven by the property value and the sales tax growth that we've seen really helping to provide additional revenue for fiscal year 2024. So as I talked about property valuations, again, we know that we saw unprecedented growth last year, over 13% property value growth, primarily being driven by residential and multifamily growth.
 And we hadn't seen growth that high since 2009 when we see manager talked this morning about the BRAC expansion over at Fort Bliss We saw a housing boom in those years leading up to the Great Recession in 2008 and the issue beginning in fiscal year 2010 really tapered off between 2010 and 2018 we saw an average about a 1.4 percent average growth in our valuations 1.4 percent is a very very small amount of value growth the average value home during that almost decade and
 stayed flat and so as I mentioned we did see that 13% increase last year as I mentioned just a second ago we're projecting a 9% increase this coming fiscal year and then slight decreases over the next over years and get this more in line with what we've seen on historical averages from public values
 So there are a lot of assumptions as we're developing the budget primarily with property taxes because not only we're looking at property valuations We're also having to do analysis and calculations on how much of that is going to go into the tips the tax increment financing zones We also do calculations and look at analysis and doing comparisons on the amount of revenue We're going to lose related to exemptions. So for all of our homestead exemptions are are
 Over 65 disabled exemptions in our veterans exemption as well has an impact on the overall property value of revenue That's available for the general fund So as I mentioned again that city property tax relief here that's provided for homesteads over 65 disabled and disabled vets over 36 million dollars in this current fiscal year I will point out here and I did this presentation a while ago and mr. Turner got on me saying that I was attacking disabled veterans and that's far from the truth and
 the point of the presentation the reason why we show this information is because it has an impact as i mentioned on the available revenue for the general fund so if you just focus on the yellow portion of these bars here if you look at fy 2022 to fy 2023 so this past year there was an additional two million dollars of property tax revenue that the city lost because we went back into the form of the exemptions a wonderful benefit we're a veteran community we just received the recent award and recognition
 Being a defense community, but it does have an impact on the overall property tax revenue That's available for the general fund to fund the operations of the organization And so as again as we're developing these projections and what's going to be available as far as revenue This is something that we continue to take into account This slide just shows you the overall number of exemptions for each of those individual groups. And so you'll see for example homestead is over 131,000 our seniors
 So those over 65 and disabled pushing close to 53,000 that benefit from that exemption. And that exemption, the city council approved increasing that a year and a half ago up to the current $42,500 discount that they receive on the value of their home. So almost 40% of our total homesteads receive that over 65 or disabled exemption again, which is helping to minimize the impact on their property tax bill.
 I talked about this already, the number of disabled veterans, and so we continue to monitor that just because of the potential impact on available revenue for the general fund. Fortunately, we do see this, as I mentioned, continue to increase not only the number, but it's based on the disability ranking. And so, again, something that we continue to factor in, not only for the upcoming budget, but as we look to the next five years as well.
 And so I referenced this already, the number of exemptions that we have. We talked about the additional relief that we provide for our seniors and disabled, increasing that amount. Back in 2015, it was at $30,000 of a discount, and we're now up. We've increased that twice in the last six years, and now we're up to $42,500 off the value of their home. Again, minimizing the impact for over 53,000 homes in the city of El Paso.
 Impacts on sales tax revenue, so I've talked a little bit about this. One of the things that is a little bit of a challenge for us as we're projecting out, again, Nicole talked about some of the uncertainty in the economy, is the lag of real-time information on sales tax information. Again, there's a two- to three-month lag in the information we receive from the state, and so the most recent report that we have, for example, is for the month of January, and so we're already coming up on April here, and we're still working off of information that's two and a half, almost three months old.
 And that plays a key role because that's an indicator as to how the economy's performing. And so all those sales tax up through January continues to perform positively. That's something that we'll continue to monitor, particularly as we get the February and March reports here in the next couple of months. So sales tax revenue, again, just to provide some comparisons on how we're performing, as I mentioned, overall continue to see positive growth in sales tax for the first four months of this current fiscal year. September, October, November, December, overall 4.7% higher.
 through those four months compared to the same time period last year and so again we want to be conservative not only when we do projections for the current year but also as we're projecting out for fiscal year 2024 which will not begin until september 1 this slide is a really good slide because you can see here the two red dots as you move a little bit to the left hand side of the bar here those were obviously covid impacted months but you'll see it sort of flattened out and then really started to uh
 Produced really positive growth beginning in 2021 early 2021 and we've seen that continue positive growth For the last coming up on two and a half years now this slide just shows historically how sales Texas performed and again the budget office Utilizes all this information again, not only when they're coming up with the projection and estimates for our upcoming fiscal year but again as we're developing this five-year forecast and this is really really important because again, this is what the information that we're utilizing is
 to make these recommendations for the city council to consider when we're presenting the budget, but also as we're looking to the long term, because it's important that we're sustainable, as Nicole mentioned, financially and operationally, and we can only do that by making sure that we're looking at the long term and not focusing on the short term and making decisions today that could have a negative impact on future years. So franchise fees, again, this is the third largest primary source of revenue, and we've talked a little bit about this already. Again, this is primarily being driven by the usage,
 Electric water and gas and also by the rates that these utility charge their customers And so as they're increasing rates, not only does the city pay more for electricity water and gas However, we do collect a little bit more additional franchise revenue as well from those utilities This shows you the year-to-date on how we've performed on franchise revenues. So quarter one and quarter two again This is another example of real-time information. So these payments are done quarterly for a possible electric and Texas gas they're done quarterly and so there's a
 About a two-month lag again with this franchise revenue as well. So as we're projecting out again utilizing historical data utilizing Budget information that's being provided by the utilities as far as what they're looking at as far as their rates That's all factored into the projection estimates that we'll have for not only again the coming year, but the five-year forecast So my last two slides here again just an update on where we stand We've continued to provide budget updates over the last several months We'll continue to do so
 Over the next several months leading up into the budget adoption in august as I mentioned we're 147 days away from that date of adoption The budget office is already working closely with all of the departments beginning to develop their preliminary budgets and then scheduling the meetings with city manager To begin doing the review in may so that we can start to do the one-on-one council briefings Later in the month of may in early june and then ultimately doing the public presentation for the community at the end of june
 Then finally again just some of the things that already kept about talked about just to recap again We'll continue to monitor those major revenue sources for the next several months as we get more sales tax data franchise Data I get on the revenue side continue to monitor the expenditure side as well and again, obviously what's going on in the economy with potential fears of a recession upcoming and
 So this five-year forecast, Council, is just that. We look into the future so that we're proactive in the budgeting process as well as being proactive in how we report to Council as we report throughout the entire year and not just wait until budget season.
 You heard me say earlier several times that we're creating a PF3 fund. I asked staff to do that in order to pay ahead of our costs like the collective bargaining agreement costs to make sure that that helps and is just one more tool for the council in order to adjust the budget accordingly ahead of time so that we are, again, one step closer to making sure we have a good budget for the council consideration when you consider that in August and September.
 Thank you, Representative Ferro followed by Representative Nunez. Thank you Mr. Mayor. So a couple things. One is, in one of the slides, somebody made a mention about homestead exemptions. How was the city involved in the homestead exemptions?
 i'm sorry what was that sir uh someone brought up the point about homestead exemptions uh and how the city was considering or entertaining how was the city involved in homestead exemptions so the city council actually is the one that sets what those homestead exemptions amount are currently right now for your homestead if you have that exemption it's a 5 000 exemption so that's essentially a discount off the value of your home the city also provides exemptions for our over 65 and disabled
 So those forms are available and we'll be presenting that information we can do that publicly and provide the links We typically have the appraisal district also come and present to the council provide that information on how you can apply for those exemptions
 For over 65 to see what as I mentioned what look thank you, but I understand that part But I'm referring more to the state exemptions. How are we gonna balance the state exemptions on this last session? There was 15,000 more Appropriated as exemptions this session. We have the lieutenant governor and the governor asking for property tax relief How is that gonna affect the budget? It won't affect the city that will impact the school districts
 So those exemptions will end up showing up on the school portion of the tax bill So as Nicole mentioned you have the five taxing entities those exemptions that you're referring to are related specifically to the school districts Okay, two more points that that stuck out to me. We're talking about only in the word only was in there increasing property taxes by 21 cents and then in the same sentence we use the word recession and
 There's a lot of people who think this, including me, who the only is not, the 21 cents is not chopped liver. And I think we need to be careful how we, when we give these presentations, how we communicate that to the constituents that we're raising their taxes. And it's only this month. And then talk about a recession. Okay.
 Sure. And the point there being that not only are we maintaining current services, we're also expanding services. So as Nicole talked about, we're expanding our police and fire departments not only with staffing but facilities. We're expanding the quality of life amenities with all of the additional facilities that we're bringing on. Point taken, though. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Adnan, that's followed by Mayor Potem.
 Good afternoon. Great job, Nicole. Just been really proud to see all of the work that you all put for this. I mean, even after October, I always try to leave you all alone because of how much work you do to close the books. And then you go right back into proposing the upcoming and balancing of our budget. I looked at them as you call it a MIFO.
 Is that the short term? Okay, MIFO. I looked at the MIFO. It's actually really well put together document. I also noticed on page 24, Representative Canales is not here right now.
 THAT YOU ALL TOOK INTO ACCOUNT THE RECENT ACTION AND THE EFFORTS OF REPRESENTATIVE GONALES TO INCREASE MINIMUM HOURLY RATE TO $15 AN HOUR. I THINK I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY WHAT THE ESTIMATED COST WOULD BE. THIS WOULD BE A TOTAL COST OF AROUND 15.1 MILLION. AND THAT WAS FROM FISCAL YEAR 24 TO 28.
 Are these still estimates or is this a firm number? No, ma'am, it's everything included is still an estimate. So it truly is just a forecast at this point. Okay, and it's because we don't understand yet the impacts of retirement and insurance, so those, what would be?
 how could we get a better, clearer answer on what the overall impact would be for the next five years? So, well, there's, as you know, and you mentioned some of those factors right there, but it's also in the other impacts are the number of...
 additional positions we're going to have filled. What other the public safety bond impact as well as the quality of life impact for the additional positions for those as well. And so that's why I continue to say it's just an estimate at this point because as you know there's multiple factors on that and then including the revenue as Robert mentioned. And so we always want to be mindful of what are those revenues look like. What does the economy look like moving forward and what are our revenue projections going to be for each year.
 interested now we talked a lot today about police staffing and it seems to be an ambitious goal of 2028 to get to 1,400 police officers I keep hearing net 30 a couple years ago we talked about next 60 is this because the academies are not well attended or is it are we proposing to have three academies still this upcoming fiscal year how do we get there and what would be the true net and
 So the and I can go to that slide and so 34 slide 34 we are so really we're looking at making up for lost ground. So you'll see the previous three fiscal years from 2020 2021 and 22 we did not see that net growth that we were projecting that we really were working towards. And so in order to ensure that we make strides.
 to address that we see that increase. We still have the net 30 over this same time period, but in order to achieve that, the goals that were set by net 30 every year, we do have to increase it to make up for that net loss that we had for the past three years. So that's why you'll see that increase to 53 of net growth under 24, 25, 52, 52, and then 51.
 So we do expect by next fiscal year to have a net of over 100, but you're just looking at the entire time span for 10 years? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Yes, ma'am. So we've got a period of catch-up, so to speak. Is the goal to get to fiscal year 2032 to 1600?
 So I'd have to go back and measure based on the previous fiscal years but I believe that it does push us out to at least 2020 2030. And so then we're just maintaining after that. DIRECTOR HARRIS Okay.
 I THINK IF WE COULD CLARIFY THAT NUMBER, BECAUSE I KNOW THAT'S GOING TO BE AN IMPORTANT NUMBER, NOT ONLY TO BENCHMARK HOW MUCH MONEY WE PUT TO THE DEPARTMENT, PLAYING CATCH UP, BUT ALSO TO COMMUNICATE THAT TO THE PUBLIC. IN MY OPINION, IT LOOKS LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE ARE STRIVING TO GET THERE, BUT RECOGNIZING THAT PEOPLE WOULD RETIRE, AND SO THESE NUMBERS COULD BE INFLATED, NOT RECOGNIZING HOW MANY RETIREMENTS WE HAVE.
 I did want to ask, go ahead. If I may, as the five year projections, this particular number, I know this is based on growth,
 based on a planning instrument. I would tell you that the number, in my opinion, in my recommendation, would be that we go from 300 to 350, maybe up to 375, but then you'd have to look at that on an annual basis. Right now, we're scheduled and projected on our trajectory to get to a 300 in a reasonable amount of time, I would say over a five to seven year period. I think that this is based on growth factors,
 uh and you have to take into account the growth of the budget uh and and adjust it for for that but absolutely have to get to 300 for sure and i would say based on the gross on the growth on the east side uh that 350 is a a manageable and a reasonable number to work towards attaining with three academies a fiscal year funded but they won't be completed
 each fiscal year that's that's correct that's the reason why i would tell you that's more of a realistic number and recommendation if um if members of the public were to ask um after the approval today from city council of the cba what can we expect with our taxes this year are we projecting initially that there will be a tax rate increase
 That's why I mentioned, I don't know if I made it clear, I said it several times, and that is that I've asked staff to put a pay for futures fund together that I'm calling a PF3. We've already included a pension stabilization fund. We've concluded a rate stabilization fund. We're at 91 days. We were at nine days in 2014. Today we're at 91. We've said it several times.
 that the gold standard is 90. You want to get above that number, quite frankly, and the goal there is to reduce the interest rate on your bonds. That's the reason why that's important. It's actually another reason why the pension fund is on the ballot as a referendum so that we remove the cap. In the early 2000s, having a cap was seen as a good thing. It seems counterintuitive to remove a cap and pay more.
 but to contribute more shows the flexibility of an organization to pay more if the fund is not performing so that is the reason for that being placed in there but but the pf3 fund is supposed to be put in place to offset those additional costs in the future I would tell you this number that we have to start with is lower than we had in the past
 in the last almost nine budgets that Robert and I and now Miss Cody have done together, we've seen the numbers much higher than that. So $17 million is not something that we feel like is not something that we can overcome. And again, we've already put in place something that we're working on right now that will come back in April for council approval in order for you to have those CBA costs offset by this new idea.
 I heard you when you said that earlier. I just think we need to be crystal clear that there's cost drivers that certainly need to be included into this upcoming budget. And we need to do the work together to see how we can soften the impact to the taxpayer. And I saw that when we were looking at the valuations, and I don't even know which slide it was,
 For fiscal year 24, they're still showing about a 9% or over 9% of increased values that was set by CAD. Are you looking at CAD's preliminary valuations? That's based on the pre-preliminary that we received. And that 9%, does it include like carryover from that 10% cap from last year to this year? Is that why we have a better understanding? Because then you see a decrease year over year, 9% to about 6% and lower.
 I just don't understand why it goes up and then down if we are still, if we see that new state law with that 10% cap. Shouldn't it be going up or is it going to continue to go down? A lot of it is driven by the market, driven by the appraisals that the CAD does. It's also driven by do they do reappraisals every year? And so they did a reappraisal this past year just based on the market, how strong the market has been.
 So if they don't do reappraisals, typically you won't see a strong growth in the valuation. What is their CADS requirements for valuations? They have to do it at least every three years. At least every three years, but they can do it more frequently if they see market changes.
 disruptions or or motility of the market which we have been seeing okay so I think it's important that we we invite the central prison district again to talk about what changes are coming down the pipeline I also know that you know their lawsuits have increased as well I'm not sure how if that's stabilizing but I think that's the best practice to include them as part of the upcoming budget discussions
 I'm very happy to see the quantification of the total workforce compensation and benefits, over 15,000 improved benefits for our workforce. They deserve it. It is a very expensive cost. But what we are seeing are the consequences of not putting investment into our workforce
 sooner because of what we saw as the pandemic, economic turmoil. I know management was doing their best they can, but now we can't open facilities because of the lack of benefits. We need to be competitive with the private sector. I think this is really important to share when we're hiring.
 Or put it in our HR department because I think that is a really great sell Point and so I did want to thank you all for your hard work I know we're gonna continue to have these conversations. We always start having these conversations once we get those preliminary Values from CAD it looks like we have a lot of work to do But I have a lot of confidence in the department that we will continue to maintain our services and looking forward to having conversations with the parks department
 looking at how we can improve programming for all sorts of residents. And so I'll look forward to those conversations in budget season. Mr. Hernandez. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. One of the things that, or another item that y'all need to take into consideration is the fact that,
 a lot of these facilities can't be opened because they need a lot more money invested in them in order to refurbish or get them back up and running. It's not necessarily always the case that it's because of the number of personnel that we have. In some cases, it's because of the fact that these buildings need a lot more money invested in them, and the operating dollars themselves aren't going to address it. You will need another bond package invested
 if you want to open up several of these facilities that are at the end of their useful life. We have done a report back in, I asked for it in 15, it was completed in 16.
 that is a compilation of all city facilities and the lack of maintenance has been done over years and years and years. And so we have been catching up with police and fire pay, with the equipment replacement for police and fire, for streets, and yes, for a lot of these items like in the bond packages and the operations and maintenance associated with those bond items,
 But we also have other facilities that don't get the attention because they're not the popular ones necessarily, but they're the facilities that need a lot of the attention that's been brought up by a lot of council members and that's been brought up in the CR process. And I just want to make sure that you all take that into consideration in the future so that you don't get frustrated, so that you understand that in order to bring some of those facilities back online,
 you have to spend a considerable amount of money on them and or consider just mothballing them and building newer facilities in a redistributed geographic fashion based on where the need most exists based on the growth that's taking place in the community because a lot of these facilities that
 Are at the end of their useful life they were built a hundred, you know some cases a hundred years ago fifty years ago We're a hundred and fifty years this year So we have a lot of older facilities that were built in the inner core of the city and the city has been built out And it's growing outwardly and so some of these facilities that we are
 attempting to open we might need to take a different look at geographically where they should go so just something for you to consider in the future I just wanted to ask one last question mr. routine is when are we gonna see the quarter four quarter four is it revenues or whatever where we're at with our second quarter in the month of April the fourth quarter is not presented until December
 Okay, so then we'll give a second quarter second quarter. Thank you in the month of April probably the second meeting in April Okay, that would be an important one because the city manager mentioned we're looking at this paper futures I mentioned the performance in sales tax and how strong that's been We should get another sales tax number I think probably the next week or two and so we'll have a little bit better idea for the month of February on how sales tax is performing
 and that's really going to be the driver of the recommendation for funding something like the city manager mentioned the paper features and the bond readers have told us as much they have told us they want to see us put dollars aside for a rainy day fund for our pension stabilization fund so if you want to improve your bond rating i think that we should uh put some dollars aside for that thank you thank you representative on this with that we have mayor pro
 Thanks. Hi, Robert. I want to talk about salaries as well. I know Representative Kanales and I put up an item for the $15 wage for our hourly lowest paid employees, but we still have a real issue with individuals who have been here for 20 or 30 years. I just spoke with an individual who worked at the city for 35 years that retired last week and made under $35,000.
 the median income in El Paso is 45,000. I don't know how you could work at the city for 35 years and not even hit 40,000, because I'm from a different time, I'm from now. And so wanting to go back to the wage study that we did back in 2017,
 And we incorporated, I know we didn't fully take that wage study and incorporate everything, we kind of did it in a percentage. And my understanding is we kind of have done the incremental increases since then, but we have not followed up on that. And we have not even, and this is my understanding, I could be very wrong, but we have not even hit the goals that were presented in that wage study.
 So what we've done is we did the equity adjustments back then back in 2019. We implemented that study We did the equity adjustments which addresses the things that you just talked about So based on seniority within the amount of time within that position Those are things we continue to have to do adjustments on so it's not just increasing the minimum wage But it's also doing those equity adjustments to ensure that we're accounting for that particularly now that we're hiring individuals coming into the city that are new and
 And they ended up making the same or even more in some cases as somebody who made that city for three to five years So ensuring that we're making those adjustments as well So that's something that we're factoring in with the recommendation Something that we've done over the last several years as well to make sure that we're addressing those type of issues We have gotten very aggressive over the last couple of years We've not only done pain creases as Nicole mentioned every year for the last eight years, but particularly in the last two years We've gotten really aggressive but again being
 having the ability to do so because again of that sales tax and the property value growth and so understanding that those revenues aren't expected to Continue to perform at those high levels over the next five years So again doing it incrementally over the next five years some well three years is something that built into this by your forecast But that's only for the $15, right? Don't want to get off on a tangent because you know, I'd love to do that but like what are there our equity is a dollar a year and
 So it's 52 weeks at a dollar. It's like I mean, what is that even coming out to for individuals? It's on the on the 87 on the 87 slides if I T would bring that up So this is since May so back in May of 2022 the City Council approved increase in the minimum wage We did it again in September of this year and then again in March So if you look at the average hourly general service employee that GS is general service employee. That's our frontline workers primarily and
 You'll see that for fiscal year 2022, which ends in August, and this year alone, you're looking at almost a 14% increase in their wage. Okay, what does that come out to if you make $30,000? Don't have it exactly. You're better at math than I am, Robert. But it's significant. I mean, a 14% increase within nine minutes of the year. I mean, we're talking of May 2022 to March of 2023. You're talking about a nine-month time period. A 14% increase is a significant increase in a short amount of time.
 As I mentioned, we continue to look at how we can be aggressive and continue to increase that. However, it's got to be based on the available revenues that we have. Also dealing with the Senate Bill 2, the property tax cap that we have. Also just minimizing the increase on the tax rate. Representative Rial just made the comment about the impact on the tax rate. And so, again, being very, very cognizant of balancing not only the services, taking care of our employees, but also the impact on taxpayers. Yeah, I mean, and I think there was an interesting conversation about our facilities, right? Either they're closed because they're in terrible condition or we don't have staff.
 And those are what I hear 50% of the time.
 Right and I think that really for me, I'm going somewhere with this, I'm sorry it's not just insulting anyone, but for me I think moving into this budget season we really need to start taking a look at the services that we can provide whether it's our facilities or our staff because there are in my district about half of the facilities are inaccessible right now and it's for one of those reasons. So City Manager, he's been pushing for us to make sure that we're being aggressive. We've done a lot of job fairs this past weekend. We did two job fairs, one at each of the natatoriums.
 HR staff is out there so that ended up resulting in 60 job offers being made Sure but it goes back to my concern that you could work at the city for 30 years and make under the average income
 And so I don't think that people today when there are so many jobs that are remote and more convenient are going to be looking at that. So I guess my ask is that before we really get into this budget season, we have a real breakdown on what our salaries look like compared to even that wage study. Because the last time we did it was 2017. I'm not going to ask for a new one, but I do want to look at those comparables because we should be well over that at this point. And we're not. And I know. And we don't disagree. Yeah.
 So we hear you loud and clear, but again, it's about balancing, balancing those costs as well. And again, as the council has mentioned,
 And I guess the point I'm trying to make is I feel like this is the year that we really need to make that the priority. And if we need to balance out other things, that's a conversation we as a council need to direct you to do. Well aware of that. But speaking to council, we're never going to get out of COVID if we don't catch up to the impact it had on the economy and salaries. And we haven't even touched that.
 And we're three years out and half of our facilities, I shouldn't say half, half of the facilities in my district aren't open and half of those are because of staffing. It is an actual issue and we can't keep getting up here and looking at you, Robert, like why aren't we hiring people if we as a council are not directing you to take the steps that are necessary? So you're never gonna hear me over promise. We're always gonna make sure that we under promise and over deliver. And so the city manager talked about the pay for futures, not only dealing with police and fire, but also dealing with our civilian employees as well.
 Now that we've reached the gold standard in our reserves of building those up, putting us in a very strong financial position, it's taken time. It hasn't been easy. It's been the result of difficult decisions from this council. But we're at a point now where we're able to do a lot of things that will get us in a...
 Higher position and so that recommendation that we're gonna bring forward I believe will address a lot of those key issues again But it's being financially responsible at the same time. We can't do it all in one year can do it all in two years It has to be thought out. It has to be planned over a multi-year based approach and Missanella We agree with you, you know in terms of increasing the pay we've been doing that every year It just doesn't seem like it's significant enough because the pay was so low and then also the health care increases that
 I know that five years before the council put the strategic plan in place, employees received an increase to their healthcare costs in the premium and no pay increase. So they're like for five years straight they received a pay decrease. So every year since we placed the strategic plan in place, the council approved, we've had some form of compensation.
 and and so yeah we agree with the comments are being made and I agree with what Robert just said and that's the reason why we've been working so hard on the finances piece of it so that we could be more aggressive on a lot of these steps we have been more aggressive Council been very supportive of that we appreciate that and we we understand what what's been talked about today and we appreciate the feedback yeah I just I do think we need to become more aggressive if that means coming back on other things I'd love to hear a proposal
 If I can go back real quickly to first and fear out here you're coming on that side And I do if you could bring out that presentation the point of this slide again just to be clear It's breaking down those cost drivers of what's driven the budget in the last several years. So between 2015-2022 Really investing in those key things that we hear from the community whether it's through our chime in budget survey whether it's through the citizen survey that we do or whether it's through bond elections and
 So we've had the 2012 quite a life bond. We've had our 2019 public safety bond and now our 2022 community progress bond so the point of this slide about the 21 cents is that had it not been for our
 Lot of things a lot of the strategies that Nicole talked about earlier in the presentation It would have actually would have been a 34 cent increase And so that's the point of the slide is that again minimize the impact on the taxpayer by not having 34 cents and instead 21 and at the same time invested in those three key areas That's that's the point of the slide. So it's been that's our annual cost from 15 till now is 110 million dollars more and
 and 72, $73 million of it, because every cent equals 3 1⁄2 million. So if you multiply 21 cents times 3 1⁄2 million, you're gonna get about a $73 million number, a little bit over that. And so what he's saying is we've absorbed the rest of that. And I know that there's a lot
 that said about the civics of obligation, the increase to the budget, but we've also had a lot of conversation about how police was ignored for decades, quite frankly, and the fact that their numbers and staffing went down when El Paso was growing is a gross injustice to the force and to the council and to the community. So that's a significant cost, as you can see with this slide, and then the only
 O&M associated with the quality of life bond package that was not included in what information went out to the public and we made that clear to the council at that time they did not like hearing that but we had to share it with them we said you're buying a bunch of horses and you're not buying any food for them and so we had to then put the O&M in there and so that's additional costs associated with that and then obviously everyone has had a long conversation about streets and that's for a very long time been ignored I am
 And the fact that this council and previous councils have set money aside annually for those street improvements is significant. So I think that those are where the dollars have gone towards, not to mention public transit, because Sun Metro only has half a penny, not a full penny like most transits.
 and the general fund has been used, or at least the general fund side of the debt side has been used for a lot of their expansion. And that's unheard of. Cities do not do that. They either wait for federal funds or they have a full penny for public transit. So there's a lot of things like that that go into the makeup of municipal financing. And the reason why overall we've been working so hard to increase the fund balance is to lower our interest rate because there's significant debt
 that we've had to take on because of all the things I've just explained. And when people bring it up, we're happy to discuss it. It's something that bears attention and needs the council's attention, and we can't sit back and ignore it. So I know that we've heard that facilities are not open.
 Again, a lot of the facilities are not open because some of the facilities need serious upgrades. And in some cases, yes, they need more staffing as well. But as Robert mentioned, we've listened, we've heard, and even if he hadn't told us, we were very much working on getting more staff online for these services to be back online as well. Mr. Mayor? Yeah.
 Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you, Ms. Cortina. But I need to bring to your attention that the people who elected me think only 21 cents is a lot of money. It's a lot of money on their tax. In fact, there's a lot who think that is an insult, that we're saying we only increase your property taxes 21 cents. And that's my point, is that we need to keep them in mind also. And I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mr. Rodgers.
 I'm Representative Rivera, but I had to respond to Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Cortina's point. It's not only 21 cents. That's a lot of money to taxpayers, and we need to keep that in mind also. And in the same sentence, we bring up the word recession. So, I mean, it's serious what we're talking about. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. I've just got one question, and it refers to the facilities that were mentioned earlier.
 If they're sitting there closed because we need to, you know, funding to major repairs, like you said, what can the city do to, how should I say, either sell them or, you know, just wait until we get the funding? Is that what would be the best thing? I'll just respond to that.
 When you look at services geographically, you need to look at where the services are most needed. I understand that sometimes councils, not just this one, any council in any city can't do that for political reasons because you can't close a facility that has a lot of sentiment. People are used to having it there. So that's gonna be a challenge. If you want to continue operating these facilities,
 and bring them back online, you're going to have to spend money. And that's going to be either with the operating dollars, which means annual dollars, or GOs, general obligation bonds, that you sell in order to make improvements of them, and or keep them closed. Because the fact that we are paying more in salaries. How the fuck did they do that? Whoa. Excuse me. Okay. I'm going to have a hot mic.
 sorry about that. Sorry that Mr. G. I didn't know that was. As I said this is a very sensitive topic and so the thing is that you have to consider these things as a council because when you increase costs it has a consequence it has an impact it has an impact on a variety of things and and Mr. Fierro and I wish he was in here
 We'll take that word only out that word shouldn't necessarily been on there But again the point still is that there's a lot of needs and they have to be paid for some way somehow Either that and I've had conversations with the mayor about this and he has said this, you know Either people need to stop, you know, there needs to be you know, a stop on expenditures, right?
 or just a reality check on how much exactly can you spend. I remember the first year I was here, I actually recommended a decrease in some of the cuts in the budget, and it was voted down by the council. They went against the recommendation.
 So I learned then that this council, this community, wanted to invest in their community. There was a lot of things that had been ignored for a long time, and so I readjusted my philosophy in terms of what I put forth to the council based on their guidance. If this council is different and says, hey, we want to stop spending, then you're going to have to really reexamine a lot of facilities that are closed and the services that are being provided or not being provided.
 and y'all need to consider whether you want to have a bond election to put bring them back online or not that'll be something you all have to look at okay and and don't get me wrong I wasn't I was just wanting to find out if if the city was to get up to option three that you mentioned sorry I was just meant asking because if the city was to get to option three and those facilities have to wait like 10 12 years to be repaired to get funding for them
 I was just wondering what that option could be for the city. Well, I think the reality of it is, I mean, since 14, I've been telling this council and previous councils that we're buying new things. Right. And we have to support those new things. And yet we have old things that we haven't been investing in. That's just a reality.
 That's just the truth. And so it's just a matter of how you wanna balance that in the future because that hasn't gone away, those needs. And we can put different instruments together in order to help make it easier to make these things happen. But at the end of the day, it costs more money. Just like everything is going up, like when the electric rates go up, water rates go up with the water department, with the gas service, we get those increases as well.
 And so we have to either absorb those or not make these increases that we've been increasing in areas that are priorities for this community and for the council. So I mean, I hope I answered your question. Yes, thank you. Thank you so much. It was just a question. It was nothing against what you all were saying. I just wanted to know what would happen if the city was to ever reach option three that you mentioned. But thank you so much.
 Thank you all for a presentation from both you mr. Cordinas and miss miss Cody thank you so much thank you sir and thank you for the presentation and one of the things I know we have a billion dollar budget and I know that I
 This was a lengthy presentation, and I know it was approximate what it's going to be moving forward, and I understand that. I just look forward really to looking at every department, every item, everything we can look at, because I can tell you that when it comes time to vote,
 whether we're going to have a rate increase or not i'm going to stay consistent and i will not support her tax rate increase this year so i look forward to working with the team and trying to figure out how we can make sure that
 we find ways to not cut in services but also making sure that just like representative fear was talking about that uh the community is not impacted so mayor i can tell you that the budget we're working on already uh i've already instructed staff we're not going to have a recommendation with a tax increase in it i appreciate that because that's as you know i've been pretty consistent and i'm not changing the day
 yes sir and and so as as i've said we've said we listen and we you know whatever the the direction is from the majority we do come back with recommendations so yes sir we've heard that thank you thank you thank you again and with that i think we're at public comment no action on that item and we do not have anyone signed up for that we don't have no public i mean
 We're on call to the public now, aren't we? I'm kidding. I know that. I'm kidding. We're moving. We're barely there. It's been a long day. Thank you. We're moving on to the first reading of ordinances, and that would be items 30 through 51. Move to introduce first reading of ordinances. And we have a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by... Representative Salcido.
 Oh, Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera. Ah, there you go. Hernan, it's been a long day. The voting is open, and the items have been approved.
 We're moving on to item 52, discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Johnson, Merriam, and Thompson Incorporated doing business as ECM International Incorporated, a GMT division. Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. Yes, we do have a lot of people.
 Yes, we'll take Representative Hernandez and Anelo. It was Anelo, but that's okay, it doesn't matter. Who do you have? To approve, and voting is open, and the item has been approved. Rep Molinar, the voting session is open. It is for item 52. So the item has been approved. Do Representative Fierro not present for the vote? Items 53 and 54, would you like to take them together? They're related. Okay.
 And 53 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a consent to assignment from Technique Data Systems Incorporated to Data Business Equipment. And this is with respect to 2017 483 payment processing lockbox contract. Item 54 is discussion and action on the request that the city council ratify the award of payment processing lockbox.
 solicitation 2017 483 to technique data systems incorporated and that the city accept pricing for maintenance and support motion to approve second motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Hernandez to approve voting is open representative thank you and the item has been approved with representative Fierro not present for the vote
 Item 55 is discussion and action in a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services for geotechnical engineering and materials testing on a task-by-task basis with Atlas Technical Consultants, CQC Testing and Engineering, Intertech Professional Services Industries, Terracon Consultants, and WSP USA Environment and Infrastructure. Move to approve.
 Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve. Polling is open. And the item has been approved with Representative Kennedy voting nay and Representative Fierro not present for the vote.
 Item 56 is an ordinance approving an amendment to the project plan and reinvestment zone financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number five to support improvements to the Henry Trust Court and To support improvements to West Main Drive between North Santa Fe Street and North El Paso Street Just from representative another pro tem. I have some questions. I don't know if there's anyone here to answer them. I
 good afternoon karina economic and international development yes represent you came to us a few months ago this is these are the same projects as well those were different those were across from san jacinto yes okay same issues i have i feel like we're just using these trees to elevate projects that we didn't include landscaping for which is fine however i still think that there are some serious issues downtown i think there are some real gaps in improvement and i think we're
 cycling this money through the same projects rather than enhancing downtown. And in fact, I would like to know if the DMD had any opinion on this, because after our last conversation, they seemed pretty not in favor of the city's proposal. And so I would like to know if you have a comment from them or...
 Sure. So what I'll note on both of these requests is first that they were approved by the TURS 5 board, which does not involve the DMD, but just noting that that's, you know, has appointees. And then two, in terms of the DMD, they did give their annual report to the TURS 5 board mentioning several things. One of those was the perceived cleanliness downtown that we consistently receive low ratings on. Joe Gudenrath mentioned that that.
 you know based on kind of back and forth with some of the stakeholders he believes a lot of that has to do with kind of like abandoned tree wells not actual trash pickup because they're very very quick about that um but they were generally in favor of the street tree master plan and all the associated improvements with that
 So no specific request from the DMD. But they're just not. Right. We wouldn't typically take these to the DMD for approval or recommendation, but Joe does attend all of our TERS 5 meetings. No objections, no concerns. Well I think that's also just a weird statement, right? Because you've also put them in charge of enhancing downtown and giving them a significant budget to do so. There are separate taxing entities, so they do administer that TERS 5. They administer a grant program using TERS 5 dollars and they report out on that regularly.
 but they would be a separate entity. No, I completely understand that, but if we're putting them as kind of the experts to downtown, I do think we should be kind of following what they have to say. And again, I mean, we still have blocks where there are no lighting, where there's no trees. I think we're just enhancing certain parts of downtown. I don't think these are bad projects. It goes back to what we were just talking about in the budget. Like, what is the most important thing? Like, where are we putting our resources?
 And it just seems like we're recycling our resources into the same projects rather than spreading them out equitably. Through any of these projects, I'm sorry. Mayor Pertham, if I may, we will take all of these comments because we have heard you. We have heard these comments from you twice. Twice.
 Two weeks ago during the introduction, I know you shared these comments. We're going to take a survey in the downtown and see where else, if we're looking at equity in the downtown that you're concerned about, where else the trees may go, where else some of the other care may go, and come back to you with that. Because we hear what you're saying, we get what you're saying, and we understand. We're always working with a limited amount of funding, but we hear you, and we are going to make sure that you feel heard and that we make sure the entire downtown is addressed in the best way that we can with the limited resources that we have. Okay.
 I'm trying to pull up the map. I know it's here on the presentation somewhere. And I think just while you're doing that, the only other note I'm going to say is that we do have a plan to bring a kind of larger overhaul of the TERS 5 project and financing plan to coordinate with the...
 adoption and recommendations in the uptown downtown plan terse five the initial project and financing plan adopted in 2006 With the downtown 2015 plan you can imagine that's quite out of date at this point Which is part of why we bring these projects as one offs They just weren't contemplated. So we are looking in a big way
 You know you're you all are getting several presentations on the downtown uptown plan but a big component of that is equity, how do we better leverage these dollars. Things like into our small business assistance revolving one phone loan funds other grant programs outside of the one that the dmd does for exterior improvements.
 that sort of thing. Okay. And is there any conversation about expanding the tourist footprint? Because I would really like to, especially when we're talking about tree improvements. I know I'm just talking about lighting on my own. It's not what this source of funding is. But including the Segundo Barrio area so they can also take benefits from this funding I think would be beneficial. Because the map I'm looking at
 IT's got it up here but it's not sharing. No, you're exactly right, it does not include most of this. Yeah, I mean I think that would be a great conversation. I think these are really the areas, not what I've been talking about, this meeting, the meeting before, and a few months ago when we approved the other dollars, I was talking about more the San Antonio area, but if we are talking about areas downtown that could reap these benefits, I think that expanding that area should also be a part of the conversation. Yeah, absolutely. But I won't be supporting this today, thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Just wanted to move to approve. So we do, and we don't have any public comment, so there is a motion to approve by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Hernandez, and the polling is open, and the item has been approved with Representative Mayor Protemanelo voting nay and Representative Fierro not present for the vote. Next item is item...
 59 in ordinance vacating a portion of mark street right away and a portion of Herbert Street right away within the Franklin D Roosevelt Roosevelt subdivision move to approve and we do have a motion made by representative Hernandez seconded by representative Molina to approve Seconded by representative Molly not and there is no public comment. I
 Voting is open. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Fierro not present for the vote. Item 60 is an ordinance amending Title 15, Public Services, Chapter 15.08, Street Rentals, Shared Mobility Devices to make the current permitting program permanent. Second. And we do have one person signed up to speak, Mr. Jonathan Lopez. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. This is Jonathan Lopez. I'm the CEO of Glide Scooter Sharing.
 Won't take very much time. Just wanted to thank you guys for everything that we've worked on and gone through. This started way back in 2018 so it's been a good four and a half years. I wanted to specifically thank Philip Etue who's the director of this program.
 Kevin Smith and other members of his staff and some of you all who I've worked closely with over this time it's because of you that we have a successful program and I really believe that this program is a shining example for other programs around the country that can show that you can have a scooter sharing program and that it can be successful I think it's ready to move into this next phase so thank you again for having me today thank you we have a motion and a second
 YES, WE DO, AND WE DON'T HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL PUBLIC COMMENT. AND I HAVE MOTION MOVED BY REPRESENTATIVE RIVERA, SECONDED BY REPRESENTATIVE HERNANDEZ. IS THAT CORRECT? AND THE VOTING IS OPEN. AND THE ITEM HAS BEEN APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY WITH REPRESENTATIVE FIERRO NOT PRESENT FOR THE VOTE. ITEM 61 IS AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE VII, ANIMALS, CHAPTER 7.28, ANIMAL SHELTER ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO REINSERT A PREVIOUSLY INADVERTENTLY DELETED SECTION IN TITLE VII.
 second and who moved mayor protege manalo seconded by alternate mayor protege molinar and there is no public comment on this item voting session is open and the item has been approved unanimously with representative fiero not present for the vote item 62 is discussion in action on the approval of the department of aviation's el paso international airport five-year capital improvement plan
 FY 2023 through FY 2027 and to authorize the city manager to make all the necessary budget transfers and execution of the projects. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. I do have a presentation. I don't know if you all are interested. Thank you. We are interested. We just don't need to. We've all done our homework. I just looked at it intensely. It looks great. Yes, sir.
 Good clarification. No questions, right? And the polling is open, and the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Fierro not present for the vote. And last item is presentation, discussion and action for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 grant award number, long number, and then the project is entitled. I'm gonna start doing that. I love that. We'll just give the project title, which is Strengthening U.S. Public Health Infrastructure, Workforce, and Data Systems. Move to reverse. I hope you have a presentation because I know you've been here all day. Of course. I have a presentation. Yes, I wanna see your presentation, sir. Go ahead. Go ahead, Dr. Refinanza. Thank you very much. And thank you for being here all day.
 Thank you for the opportunity because this is very exciting what we're here to present and for you guys to approve and we're requesting your approval. This CDC has put out a request for grants and we were one of the fortunate local health departments to be awarded this grant.
 This grant is a five-year grant from the CDC, which with the COVID-19 pandemic, they recognized that there were many challenges faced by local health departments, states, and other jurisdictions that handle public health. And not just emergencies, but public health in general. And this is what is intended to strengthen the public health.
 It is aimed at the prevention, preparedness, and respond to any kind of threat. And the good thing about this grant is that the CDC built it with the most flexibility, meaning it's going to have the minimum restrictions. We're able to accommodate the grant to the needs of each of our departments.
 There were 3.2 billion with a B available in which 107 health departments, El Paso being one of those, 48 large localities, eight territories, and three national partners split the amount, the total amount of the 3.2 billion. So this almost $10 million that we're going to be receiving is going to be used for workforce,
 which we're trying to retain public health specialists, we work in a public health have the heart for it. And we need to retain those employees. We need to compensate it properly. We need to attract more public health professionals. We're going to be also strengthening the foundational capabilities. What that means is all the public health programs that we have we're going to need to strengthen. So this way we're going to be able to also
 provide the services that we identify as in need in the community health assessment. I presented to you the community health assessment with the three main areas in which one was targeting those chronic conditions, education is empowered. Also going to the areas that need it the most, and those are the ones that are affected by those chronic conditions, making accessibility also a priority.
 And mental health is also one of those areas that we need to strengthen working with our mental health authority. And the other thing is the data modernization. Data is extremely important and that's going to be driving also our decisions and how we're going to be making these efforts and these plans actionable. So the funds, almost $10 million, they're going to be distributed
 9.3 million workforce up front, 533,000 foundational capabilities annually, and the good thing is that there's no matching required by the city. All those funds are going to be coming to us, and we're going to be able to address those needs as we identify in the community health assessment. So there's going to be some short-term changes.
 outcomes, long-term outcomes, but basically what we want is our community to be benefiting from these programs, from this education, from this outreach, and bringing those services to those that are in need.
 That's what we need to do. That's part of the accessibility that we want to have That's how we're gonna be targeting those chronic conditions And that's how we're gonna be looking at the mental health of our community that it is the needs of our community that's what we identified that we were going to be doing and That's how we're gonna be applying those funds for with that. I'm not gonna be taking any more of your time Thank you. Thank you for being here and I
 appreciate always the updates and the good work you've been doing for our community we uh you let us through a really tough time and with your leadership and i do want to thank you for um always coming up and giving us uh good better and different towards giving us the news we need to know to be able to move our community forward so thank you for that representative dr caranza really good news um very welcoming to see outside dollars to help the impact to taxpayers
 I just want to better understand, you need to change the, you need to amend the public health department? What part of that? Just the budget resolution? Just the budget resolution, and that's why by adding these funds, we want to amend the budget that we have for the public health department. Okay, so you need us to accept formally the grant donations so that we can implement it into our budget resolution? Yes, ma'am. Okay, and...
 Where's PIO? Please announce this. This is wonderful news, especially because we have seen so many impacts to our health and especially after the pandemic. And so really well received news and it should be highlighted. Thank you. Appreciate it. Congratulations. Thank you. We'll ensure that this gets pushed out and there's lots of information shared because it is very positive. So thank you very much. Thanks, Dr. O'Brien. Thank you. And with that, we do have a motion and a second.
 I do have a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, and I didn't get a second. I got one now. Seconded by Representative Molinar to approve, and the voting session is open. Representative Anello, thank you. Aye. And the item has been approved with Representative Fierro not present for the vote. And if we can have a motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor? Aye.
 And the meeting for Tuesday, March 28th has been adjourned at 3.39 p.m. Oh, I know. Didn't ask any... I don't know. I'm disappointed. See anyone opposed? Yeah.