Yes, sir. Good afternoon. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, March 30th, 2021. It is 3 31 PM. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsline. Present. Representative Anello. Present. Hernandez.
 Good afternoon, everyone present. Molinar. Good afternoon. Present. Salcido. Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Rodriguez. Hello, everyone here. Rivera. Present. Quote. Lizara. Present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Counsel, please make sure your cameras are on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor.
 Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones when not speaking to reduce any background noise. Thank you.
 Mr. Prine, also, I checked with Ms. Neiman today on Robert's Rules of Orders to make sure that we're following them. And she did tell me that when a motion is made and a motion is seconded, there will be no further discussion on the item as per Robert's Rules of Order. So I just want to make sure that everyone knows that. If there is a motion and a second and someone wants to pull the...
 the second to continue the discussion. I'm more than willing to do that, but I want to make sure we do it in a proper manner. With that, we'll begin. And thank you.
 I'd like to start with a moment of silence. We see our community and we've had two days in a row that we've had under 100 cases of COVID-19. We can see that the progress our community is making and we need to continue to make that progress. They, you know, that we keep saying there's a light at the end of the tunnel and I believe there is, but we're not there and we need to continue to practice
 to wear a face mask, do proper distancing, and also to sanitize our hands to protect not only ourselves and our team members but our community. And for all those who have lost their life, I'd like to have a moment of silence for them and also their families. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, I'm not sure that I received...
 We don't have any revisions this afternoon. Very good. So I'd like to make the motion to approve the consent agenda. Second. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes.
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the regular agenda on page number five, item number 14. This is a presentation and discussion on a report by Moss Adams, LLP, on the financial and grant audit for the City of El Paso. Good afternoon, Major and Council. Good afternoon. Let me share the presentation with you. Let me know when you're able to see my screen. I'm sorry? Let me know when you're able to see my screen. Okay. Okay.
 Just one second. Not yet. And my. Yes? No, ma'am. One second. This, for some reason, is a little slow. One second. There you are. It's just good. Let me just try to make it full screen. Is it better? We can see your screen. All right. Thank you, sir. This is a presentation for the physical year 2020 external audit, Margarita Muñoz Comptroller.
 The strategic alignment is goal six. Set the standard for sound governance and physical management, specifically 6.6, ensure continued financial stability and accountability through sound financial management, budgeting, and reporting.
 Before I introduce most items to provide their results on the fiscal year 2020 external audit, I would like to talk to you about three areas that I think are important on understanding the results of the audit and what the Controller's Office does to produce these results and to maintain them.
 I want to make you aware of the processes and improvements we have made during the fiscal year 2020, including the standards that we implemented, the results that we achieved, and then what we're currently working on during the fiscal year 2021.
 During fiscal year 20, we did several improvements in the areas of financial reporting, reporting specifically to the comprehensive annual financial report. We added disclosure notes to the required supplementary information and improved the presentation in relation to the pension, other post-employment benefits and budget schedules. Sorry. Can you see, what slide are you seeing, number three? Ms. Muñoz, your screen's not moving, still on there.
 I don't know why I'm having these issues with my presentation. There you go. Okay. Okay.
 So I was mentioning that we did several improvements to the financial reporting, specifically to the notes that require supplementary information and the way that we present the pension information, other post-employment benefits, and the budget schedules. We also updated disclosure notes related to bonds and then also the notes in the single audit report.
 In the area of internal controls, we updated most of our financial policies during the year, and we provided mandatory training to employees and city staff. We continue to meet with departments frequently to provide guidance in grants compliance and in accounting matters. We have also worked with IT to make improvements to our financial software system to mirror the improvements that we did to internal control in the physical process that we carry on a daily basis.
 I want to emphasize the great work that Office of the Comptroller did to provide the tools for departments to maintain internal controls while working remotely. With the help of IT, we were able to efficiently develop and deploy electronic forms that help us maintain proper segregation of duties and adequate level of approvals in regard to payments and general ledger transactions.
 Using the Teams application, we continue to meet with over 100 employees citywide in a monthly basis to discuss updates and compliance matters in different areas pertaining to different departments.
 The work that was done in regard to tracking, recording, and reporting the Treasury funding we received was outstanding. From developing tools such as the manual, the grants manual, and the project request form, to continuously meeting and training departments to properly account for those funds. This was an excellent multi-department effort under the guidance of our CFO. The results? No audit findings.
 As a reminder, Major and Council, aside from complying with an external audit requirement set by the Charter, as a bond issuer, the City also has to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15C2-12 in order to provide financial disclosures to investors and maintain our ability to issue future debt.
 We also have the requirements of the single audit since we received more than $750,000 in federal grants. We are required to report to the federal audit clearinghouse in order to maintain eligibility to receive grants.
 This is very important to the city in order to provide non-property tax funding for different programs and services that we offer. Just so you know and have an idea of how important this is, last year we received $121.4 million in federal and state grants.
 As far as the Governmental Accounting Standards Board pronouncements that we implemented during the year, the main one that I can tell you about is GUSB 84. We were actually one of the first cities implementing this standard.
 This pronouncement establishes the criteria to identify fiduciary activities and the requirements for financial reporting, specifically to determine whether a government controls the assets of the fiduciary activity. We have also implemented GASB 89 and the technical bulletin pertaining to the CARES Act. This year we're currently working on the implementation of GASB 87 and 96,
 And so this is a multi-department effort that also includes the acquisition of appropriate software to track and report these contracts. At the same time, we're working on the second round of policy updates and procedures, as well as developing some training for city employees that have direct contact with the general ledger.
 So, in conclusion and in line with our strategic goal alignment of providing sound governance and physical management, we continue to work our internal controls stronger, developing and improving financial processes, as well as keeping our office up to date with New Gatsby standards.
 I think that having a know-how-to-find status is the result of having proper internal controls in place, knowledgeable, dedicated staff across departments, and an appropriate control environment to conduct operations. I want to take the opportunity to thank the City Manager and the CFO for their constant support and assistance, because they're always available when we need them.
 and to my beautiful and wonderful staff because the success of this audit is the result of their hard work and their dedication. I also want to compliment and thank the city departments because they always come to us for guidance and they follow our policies and procedures and for showing up for training as well. Thank you, everybody. Is there any questions or should I go ahead and present Moss Adams? Yes.
 Yes, sir.
 to zero for the fifth year in a row. And that does not happen by accident. I think that the training that's taking place, the staffing that we have in the Comptroller's Office, the results that you see by things like having all the reimbursements to the TxDOT, big story that was in place five, six years ago,
 and whenever they had said publicly that there was $20 million that hadn't been reimbursed, it actually went all the way back to 2009, and we were able to not only get our $19.2 million back, which it wasn't $20 million, it was $19.2 million, but now that department serves as one of the standard bearers
 for tech stocks, and they use the Capital Improvement Department as an example for other departments throughout the country. So to go from what was inherited of that type of financial turmoil and of that magnitude and what that means when you have that many external audit findings, you can lose your bond rating.
 Whenever you had that in combination with the use of the fund balance to the extreme, it could have meant just that. So the fact that there's five years of no external audit findings and you have also departments that have gotten better, you have better training that's taking place in our departments.
 and how the staff has responded to that training and the results that they have. This speaks volumes for the work that they've done and what this organization is capable of when you provide the training like the Council passed just not but a month ago in the investment in our employees. So I wanted to just take that opportunity to thank you all for that support. You're a big supporter of staff. You all support training that takes place for our staff, and it makes them better. So thank you all for that.
 Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Ms. Munoz, thank you very much and congratulations. Thank you, Mayor. Corey, I'll go ahead and share your presentation. I hope I don't have the same issues. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council. I'll go ahead and start talking while we're getting the slides teed up here. My name is Corey Hogan. I'm a partner with Moss Adams, your independent audit firm.
 And we're here today to report out on the recently completed audits for the fiscal year ended August 31st, 2020. It's hard to believe a whole year has passed since I spoke to you the last time. I think the last year we were just learning how to use these remote tools and settling into this remote environment. And we're still struggling through it a little bit. But, you know.
 Corey, I'm sorry. I discussed and I have no clue what happened. It's up there now. Yeah, but it's mine. I don't know why if I have Corey's here and still sharing mine. There it is. No, I'm trying to share yours and still coming to yours. I mean, to mine. I'm so sorry. Margarita, this is Araceli. If you'd like, our IT team has the presentation ready. Yes, Araceli. Okay, thank you. That would be a better idea. Thank you, ma'am. There we go.
 Perfect. Well, as I mentioned, we're reporting out on the audits that were recently completed for the year ended August 31st.
 This is a summary of the presentation we gave back on March 9th, as it says here, to the Financial Oversight and Audit Committee. It was a more detailed presentation, and I won't take up your time with all the details today, but we did wanna just kind of present the slides and include them in your packets. You should also have a copy of the financial statements in the annual report that were produced by the Office of the Comptroller. If not, they are, of course, available online.
 We move forward to the next slide. We just have a very brief agenda today, as I mentioned. We're required to report out on the audit reports that we issued, any findings that we had, which as you heard a few minutes ago, there were no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the audits this year. So it sounds like year five of a clean bill of health.
 Talk a little bit about the audit itself. We have some required communications that we're required to share, and I won't go over those in detail today. And then we'll just wrap up by talking about what's coming up in the future. Let's move on to the next slide. So to start with, I want to summarize the audit reports that were issued as a result of the audits that were completed. The first two reports here were the reports on your comprehensive annual financial report. Those are your financial statements.
 As your independent auditors, we perform testing and under auditing standards and are able to apply opinion on the top of those. Those financial statements are presented fairly in all material respects in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. It's what's called an unmodified opinion or a clean report, highest level of assurance that you can get from an independent auditor.
 We issued a second report that's required under government auditing standards that covers the internal control on compliance over financial reporting. As we mentioned, there were no findings, no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. I'd also like to point out that the Office of the Comptroller does submit and applies for and receives
 We have a certificate of excellence in financial reporting each year from the Government Finance Officers Association. This is kind of a select group of cities and local governments out there that submit their reports to this national organization and has it reviewed by a team of experts. And this is the highest level of acknowledgment that you can receive for them. And the City of El Paso has
 submitted that again for 2020, and is in the habit of submitting that and receiving that every year. So that's a compliment to Margarita and her team in the Office of the Comptroller's Office. As Margarita mentioned earlier, we also perform the single audit, which is the compliance audits over the federal and state funding that you receive.
 This year we audited two federal programs and four state programs as part of our audit. Those are determined based on a formula that's provided by the government and done on a cycle basis based on the size of those grants. And again, pleased to report that we had no compliance findings as part of those audits. I'll move on to the next slide.
 You may not realize that we also perform four separate engagements, agreed amount procedure engagements they're called. These are where federal and state agencies require separate reports on programs that they're in charge of. We issued these four reports as well at the end of February. The first one is the passenger finance facility charge program at the El Paso airport.
 The second was a Chapter 59 Asset Forfeiture Report for the Police Department. The third is the TCEQ, or Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Report that is submitted to the State of Texas. And the last one is a National Transit Database Report that is submitted for the Sun Metro Transit System. Again, no findings of noncompliance or internal control matters were reported in those separate engagements. Pretty good report card so far.
 Let's move on to the next slide. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail on these next two slides, but these are the areas of some of the areas of audit emphasis, areas that we dig into during our audit at the City. We did go over this in more detail in the Audit Committee meeting back on March 9th, but as you can see, the City audit does encompass a lot of large accounts, the capital assets,
 for the city, the enterprise fund operations at the airport and the transit system. A large number of estimates that are made by management that we have to audit and understand related to pension liabilities and healthcare plans, environmental remediation and whatnot. So I'll move on to the next slide. And again, the next slide contains more areas of audit emphasis you can see here.
 related to the city's bond obligations, their IT systems. And then here's the listing of the federal programs and the state programs that we tested this year under the single audit. You can see that we tested the federal transit cluster grants of $43.6 million this year. A new program related to the COVID-19 pandemic is the Coronavirus Relief Fund and this $19.3 million
 represents expenditures through August 31st, 2020. Of course, we know that amount will be larger in 2021 and that program may be audited, likely be audited again in 2021. There were four state programs that came up on the rotation for the state of Texas this year and you can see those listed there. Again, for both federal and state programs,
 There's not a lot of leeway for us as auditors or for the city to decide which programs to audit in any given year unless we receive instructions from an agency to do so. It's a formula-driven process of determining which programs need to be audited, and most of them run on a three-year rotation basis, as long as there aren't any findings. Let's move to the next slide.
 Moving into some of the required communications. Again, these were gone over in detail with the audit committee a couple weeks ago. We won't spend too much time with them today. But we just want to report out to the city council that the audits went very smoothly this year. They were done completely remotely, which was a new experience for our team and for the city's team. And we worked very closely, maintained very closely.
 coordinated communications, regular communications with each other each week, and exchanged information electronically through secure portals and systems to be able to complete the audits remotely. All of the reports were issued before the deadlines on time and in accordance with the scope that we had discussed during our planning last summer when we kicked off the audits.
 financial statements, disclosures were clear. Part of our audit is to review the financial statement wording and footnotes that are prepared by the office of the controller. And we had no issues there. We worked closely together to make sure that the new standards, GASB standards that were mentioned earlier were implemented properly. And we spent additional time there testing the implementation of those standards. Moving on to the next slide.
 Part of our audit is that we consider, we're required to consider the existence of fraud or fraud risk. We accomplish that by performing interviews with people throughout the organization from members of the city council to members of the finance office to the internal audit department to individuals that are out in the various departments. We also review journal entries and transactions
 using technology to look for unusual items or things that could be indicative of fraud. We're pleased to report or we report that we noted no instances, elevated instances of risk of significant fraud or anything that merits communication to you today. Had we noticed anything during our procedures, we would have brought them to the attention of the audit committee immediately and to the appropriate members of management.
 And then finally, we're required as your auditors to remind you that we are independent with respect to the city of El Paso. That's a cornerstone of our profession. It's something we take very seriously and we do independence checks each year to make sure that we have no, had no relationships or transactions with the city that would impair that independence. Moving on to the next slide. This is just kind of a forward looking slide here at the end.
 The controller mentioned that the Gatsby has issued a number of new standards and we will always review those standards for the upcoming standards that are gonna have the most impact on the city. And there's two that I wanted to cover today. I'm gonna start with the second one on this page, which was Gatsby 95. When the coronavirus outbreak, COVID-19 broke out last year,
 The GASB issued GASB 95 immediately, which postponed the implementation date for all these standards that are out there because of the pandemic and to give finance departments more time to implement these standards. The city was already midstream on implementing GASB 84 early, which was this new standard that shuffled the reporting of some of the different
 departments in the city and the financial statements and the comptroller's office had worked very hard to implement this, so that was implemented early last year. The other standard though that I wanna bring up is this GASB 87, this lease standard. It's not effective till 2022, but the city is working, looking at it right now with the goal of possibly early implementing this standard for 2021. We're working closely with management and with the office of the comptroller
 over the feasibility of that. But what this standard is gonna require is that all of the leases that the city has, including all the operating leases, you know, out at the airport with the transit system, with the parks, throughout the city, all these leases have to be quantified with the future obligations tallied and, you know,
 capitalized as leases that will go onto the balance sheet of the city, where you recognize the future benefit that you're gonna get out of these leases and also the future obligations associated with those leases. It's a monumental project. Governments are all working very hard now, implementing software and other tools to be able to capture the leases.
 all this data. I know Margarita in her office is working hard on this. This is something that they're communicating with us on their plans on whether they're going to really implement this for 2021 during the current year or it's going to be implemented at the effective date in 2022. Moving on to the next slide. Last slide.
 highlight some of the positive aspects of the audit this year. As I mentioned earlier, the audits were performed completely remotely this year due to the pandemic. We held weekly status calls at least weekly, sometimes more often with the finance group team there. Worked very closely together, monitoring our target dates, our deadlines.
 and each of the reports was completed and submitted in advance of the deadlines. It's a compliment to Margarita and her team who are also working remotely. And basically the tone at the top that's been established at the city that places such a high importance on the audit and making sure that,
 The books are closed out and tied out well in advance of the time when we come in as your office. The accounts balance and the federal programs have all been reported in compliance with the standards. So just want to again thank you and express our appreciation for this opportunity to work with the City of El Paso. Thank you, Mr. Hogan. Does anybody have any questions on the audit report? There is no questions, Mr. Hogan.
 Ms. Munoz, thank you very much for your presentation. Thank you, sir. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. The next item is number 15. Thank you, Cori. Item number 15 is presentation, discussion and update regarding the recommendations of the e-Cite policies cross-functional team. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Alex Huffman with the Capital Improvement Department. If I could please bring up the presentation for this item. Good afternoon, sir. All right. Good afternoon, everyone.
 This is a presentation that's going to be bringing all the council members up to speed with some of the recommendations that are coming out of cross-functional team for the Eastside policies. Next slide, please.
 And so just as a reminder, on February 2nd of this year, the facilities master plan was adopted by all of council. And the major findings of this master plan was that there was a significant gap in public facilities and that the development pattern that exists within the study area, which was going to be George Dieter East into the city's ETJ was not financially sustainable. And that as a result of these findings, we ended up
 including representatives from districts three, five, six, and seven into our cross-functional team, which is going to be, we're going to be going over some of the recommendations of that cross-functional team today. Next slide, please.
 And so our members of our cross-functional team include different stakeholders. So we have internal departments that are made up of city staff as well as city council. And then also we included El Paso County because we recognize that with a lot of the challenges that the study found and the way to address a lot of the issues was that we need to include the county. And so as part of that...
 We've been working with their planning and economic development department, as well as the commissioner from precinct number three. When I presented to the county commissioners, they nominated the commissioner from precinct number three as their representative. And so we've been including them in our conversations. Next slide, please.
 And so as a reminder, the Eastside Policies Cross-Functional Team, really what the purpose of this team is, is that we're looking at policies and ordinance changes related to growth management. Specifically looking at things related to land use, annexation, and transportation in alignment with our strategic plan, which outlined specific goals and objectives for our 2025 and 2025 projects.
 Included in the Eastside Master Plan deliverables are the items that are listed across the bottom of the slide, which were some of the policy recommendations that are going to be considered as part of the implementation of the Eastside Master Plan. Next slide, please.
 And so the important thing that I want to note here at the top before we get into the policy recommendations is that there's this connection between what we're looking to accomplish out of the Eastside Policies Cross-Functional Team, which is growth management, as well as our infill development, CFT, which the remaining council members who are not part of the Eastside Policies Cross-Functional Team are part of.
 And there's a connection between these two because effective growth management leads to infill development. And so if we imagine that the growth management policies that are going to be considered for adoption are tightening the belt, if you will,
 around the city's periphery, we also need to be looking at infill development strategies to help address this shortage in city services. And so by adopting these growth management strategies, we're going to be looking at opportunities to increase housing density within our existing neighborhoods, which will help to reduce our service costs. And so that's what this slide is really representing, is that in order to address some of the facility gaps or identified
 by the Eastside Master Plan, the way that we can reduce those costs of service is by increasing population density and promoting infill development. Next slide, please.
 So another way of visualizing this is that on one hand, you know, we want to be providing stable services to our constituents. And the best way to do that is to be looking at increasing our housing density because the alternative is to, you know, continue to raise taxes, which is not something we want to encourage. But really by having this low density development pattern that the Eastside Master Plan identified,
 as existing, that is what the result is with our existing development pattern. And so as we look towards growth management and info development strategies, we wanna use this as an opportunity to have our services be stable and also to lower taxes. But it really leads to this question of who pays for this outward growth? Is it going to be the new users and the new development or is it all residents? Next slide, please.
 And so what we did to help address this question was to develop a series of policies that could be considered as part of growth management. And this was developed in concert, not only with our consultants, but also with the council members of our Eastside Policies Cross-Functional Team. And the idea here is that we have a number of different policies that can be considered. Some of them are more controversial and other ones are longer to implement. And so part of the strategy that we wanted to present here today
 was to begin to look at some of the strategies that, you know, maybe are longer to implement, as well as looking at some of the short-term strategies that can help gain some traction as part of growth management. And so if we can go to the next slide, the policies that we wanted to discuss here today and have hopefully some direction in terms of, you know, whether or not Council supports all of these policies,
 for consideration moving forward with some of the engagement processes starting is to look at the annexation policy, our fee in lieu of public improvements, potentially looking at reducing parking minimums and residential zoning and residential zoning districts for residential uses and then potentially looking at legalizing some of the missing middle housing in residential districts. And so I'll go into each of these in the upcoming slides. Next slide please.
 And so first, the first topic that we wanted to cover in this presentation was the annexation policy.
 And so right now we have an existing annexation policy that was adopted in 2009. It allows the City Council to vary the fees based on the specifics of the development. So right now the policy requirements establish a fee of $820 for each unit to recover the cost of infrastructure. And so that's really supposed to be covering a cost of providing police and fire services as well as
 you know, parks and recreation facilities in new development. And one of the things that the sub master plan identified was that this fee is obviously not enough to cover our costs as you know, we have a lot of facility gaps because we don't recover the true cost of development and providing services out there. Next slide, please.
 And so the specifics of the annexation plan or the annexation policy that we're looking to instead replace our existing annexation policy with would be that we would be replacing this $820 unit fee instead with doing a fiscal impact analysis. And so what a fiscal impact analysis would do would be to determine the cost of service for a...
 perspective development and this policy would give the city the ability to recoup that full full service cost or that the city council again could have the opportunity to to vary that but the idea here being that we have the opportunity to instead of getting this 820 dollars per unit that we would be getting our our full uh cost recovery
 And so the key item here for consideration that in adopting a policy that would actually recoup our full service costs would be that it may have the effect of pushing some of the development out into the county because it could make development
 significantly more expensive within city limits. And so as we move forward with this process and these policy recommendations, it is something that we want council to be fully aware of that it may be in effect of adopting a policy like this. Next slide, please.
 The second thing that we want to discuss as a potential policy to move forward with is the fee in lieu of public improvements. So right now in our subdivision ordinance, it allows the City Planning Commission to waive the city's proportionate share of public improvements. And so what this means is that each development that takes place within the city has to pay its half of public improvements. So things like street sidewalks, street trees.
 bike lanes, all of the public improvements. And this policy has been in place since 2012, and it has had the effect of waving millions of dollars with the public improvements.
 and it hasn't given the city the ability to recruit any of those improvements. And so sometimes what ends up happening is that the City Planning Commission waives the public improvements, then as a future capital project, the city is then paying to put in the improvements that should have been required as part of the original development. Next slide, please. And so what we're proposing to do instead is that rather than allowing developers to request the waiver from City Planning Commission,
 We're now going to if they do not want to put in the public improvements for whatever reason allow for the city to Recoup its full cost of the proportionate share of that development and so what we could use and so that money would go then to a Specific fund that's dedicated to these fees That are collected in lieu of the public improvements and that we could use these funds then go to bear
 various capital projects in and around the city. Some of the things that were discussed was, could we use the funds to help provide more NIP projects? That's certainly a possibility. It would really be something that we could iron out the details of if this is a policy that we wanna move forward with. But the idea here is that the fund would be used similarly
 to how we have park fees, which again, collects funds for parks and use for parks. We would be using these funds for public improvements in and around the city. Next slide, please. The other item now we wanted to cover, and this was really a recommendation that came from the council members that are part of the cross-functional team, was potentially looking at ways to increase housing density and housing choice in and around the city.
 And so the way that we would be proposing to potentially do this would be to eliminate minimum parking requirements in residential districts for residential uses. Also permitting the missing middle housing, so housing types that currently are not permitted in the city.
 and residential districts looking specifically at triplexes and quadruplexes, and then also potentially looking at reducing minimum lot requirements to allow for greater housing densities, encouraging more vertical construction in around our residential zoning districts. Next slide, please.
 And so for parking reform for residential uses, the thought process behind that is that right now there's this tremendous oversupply of parking in our residential districts. So this arrow on the left is showing that, you know, within a residential subdivision, even though as part of our design standards for construction, we require on street parking in residential districts on local streets.
 that parking on street is hardly ever used. And so you can see like very few cars are actually parked on street.
 Now, in addition to that, we also require two off-street parking spaces that are typically contained within a garage. And so the photo on the right is showing those two parking spaces that would be located within the garage. We have that one parking space out in the street. And then we also have the additional requirement that if you have a garage that you have to put in a 20-foot front yard setback. So it has the effect that at a bare minimum, each single family house, if you're going
 ends up having five parking spaces in between the combination of those located off street and on street. And really what the key here is, is that it restricts how much and what type of housing can be built. Because if someone wanted to do a duplex, you'd have to double the amount of parking that's available off street in order to allow for a duplex, even if it's a permitted use by right.
 And it also has the effect of making housing less affordable, because if you have to pay for, you know, housing a vehicle, that's a cost that's going to be absorbed into a mortgage, which then has the effect of making that housing more expensive. Next slide, please.
 And so when we look at parking that's available in and around the city, looking at just residential zoning districts and local streets, there's enough parking on street to house 700,000 parking spaces.
 And that represents more than two parking spaces for every housing unit within the entire county, not just the city, but all the housing units which exist in the county. And it consumes about three square miles of total land area. So we're dedicating a lot of space that's not tax productive space to just parking. Next slide, please.
 And it's also important to consider that, you know, even though we have this two parking space requirement currently on the books, that there's a significant population, about one third of all residents in the city have one car or less. And so even though we're requiring two, a lot of people will only have one car or in some instances they have no cars. Next slide, please.
 And so, you know, this is all about, you know, housing choice, trying to promote people having the ability to choose the configuration that they want to live in. But the important thing here to note is that by increasing housing density, it has the effect of reducing the cost of service per household. And so this chart on the left is showing that as housing density increases, the taxes per household decrease.
 and that as housing density increases here on the right, that we're seeing taxes that's produced as revenue to the city increases as the density increases. And so it's really just an important consideration, especially as we're trying to promote more tax-productive uses of our lands within the city. Next slide, please.
 And then the last thing that we wanted to cover is just looking at increasing housing choice. And so right now, we have very few housing choice in the city other than single family housing, which is, you know, the single family detached and the attached housing.
 There aren't very many duplexes, triplexes, and quadruplexes that exist within the city. And so one of the things that we want to do, again, it's not mandating it, but just opening it up as an opportunity would be potentially to allow for triplexes and quadruplexes within our R4 and R5 residential zoning districts, which currently permit duplexes.
 And one of the things that we want to discuss as just an opportunity as we move forward with potentially this policy recommendation was that perhaps we want to look at putting locational requirements on it if council was not comfortable with just permitting the triplexes and quadruplexes by right throughout these R4 and R5 zoning districts, but we could tie it to some other type of strategic objective.
 As an example, the map in the upper right-hand corner is depicting that we could allow for triplexes and quadruplexes within a half-mile BRT route, perhaps as a way to help support transit ridership.
 or we could allow for the increased density within areas of the city where we have all of our service types covered. And so we could, on the bottom right-hand corner, just permit those uses within areas where people are within a service area for a park or recreation center, senior center. They're covered by police and fire, just as a way to help reduce some of those service costs.
 And so as we move forward with these policy recommendations, again, with some of the feedback that we hope to hear today, we can maybe help limit the impact that an ordinance change would have on this by maybe putting some locational requirements and limitations on making such a policy change. Next slide, please.
 And so as we move forward with these different policy recommendations, we want to begin that process, starting with meeting with residents through the representative's office.
 We also want to use the developers group venue as an opportunity to educate the development community on some of these policy changes. And so another item will be covered tomorrow with the developers group where we're going to be looking at some of our changes related to streets.
 And then we also want to begin some of the vetting process with our boards and commissions. The other thing we want to point out is that we do have an Eastside Master Plan website that's up on the capital improvement page. And we're going to be using this as an opportunity to capture some of the feedback from the constituents and the residents, as well as the development community by putting
 these presentations and the various deliverables and policy recommendations on the site to capture that feedback. Next slide, please.
 And so as I mentioned, with our cross-functional team, we've been going over some of these items that are being presented today. But for the future, we're going to be coming back to all Council as a whole again to discuss some of these other changes that are being discussed as potential implementation strategies for the Eastside Master Plan, which is looking at our street design standards and updating our major thoroughfare plan, which looks at connectivity throughout the city.
 Also looking at a growth management chapter addition to Plano Paso, and then finally looking at the traffic impact analysis requirements, which we'll start to contemplate and require that we look at all modes of travel for public improvements as opposed to what we have currently right now, which looks only at traffic impact related to cars. And so that's just to give you an idea of some items that will be brought up in future council meetings.
 And so that concludes what I have for you today, and I'm happy to answer any questions if there are any. Thank you, Mr. Hoffman. With that, we have Representative Hernandez, please.
 Thank you, Mary Lisa. Thank you, Alex, for the great presentation. I just wanted to express my gratitude to my colleagues who are part of the CFT, where we meet weekly and it really does feel like college again, where we're learning about these basic principles of planning. And it really is a lot of effort for my colleagues. So I wanted to thank you all for your time and commitment.
 Um, I feel like we're making great strides. We're learning about these policies. We're understanding how it's how it's impacting the growth, especially within the east side. And then, as you mentioned earlier, Alex, like, how does that how is that having a snowball effect?
 across the rest of the city. And so really the effort is for more info to reduce the reliancy on on streets and vehicles and really put a more of an emphasis on focus on pedestrians and walkability communities, walkable communities. So I'm very excited about the recommendations that are coming out of these meetings. I hope that we can continue this.
 because I feel like this is the best approach to bring these meaningful changes to our policies that are that's going to require everyone to be on the same board so this educational opportunity is really um is really leading the way and how we're going to change that so I really love this model and I hope we can incorporate for other policy recommendations and changes Alex you've done a great job you come prepared to every meeting um there's never been a question that we've asked that you haven't been able to answer so I really wanted to thank you for your efforts and um
 and to my colleagues for for participating in the process. Thanks Alex. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Hernandez. Representative Rodriguez. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you Mayor and thank you Representative Hernandez for your your words. I agree this has been a very exciting process. It's like going back to school and it's really fun. All of the inputs and questions and Alex you are always very prepared and I don't know if you could tell
 in our meetings, but I'm always very excited for this meeting. I look forward to it every week. The only thing I wanted to say or reemphasize, I should say on slide 13, one of the things that we talked about specifically was raising the maximum height requirement in order to allow for vertical buildings as far as single homes even that could have multiple stories up to three stories.
 So I just wanted to just remind you of that because that was one idea that I was very excited about. And we'll incorporate that. All right. Thank you. That is all. Thank you, Senator Rodriguez. And with that, Mr. Hoffman, there's no other questions. Thank you for a very in-detailed presentation and thank you for all the community involvement. That's very important. So thank you. Thank you, Matt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
 Yes, sir. The next item is number 16. This is an operational focus update on park maintenance related to turf. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Joel McKnight with the Streets and Maintenance Department. Today we will provide you with an update over our parks turf maintenance practices that will focus on three primary areas of information.
 First, we're going to talk about previous and current operational and process improvements that have been made possible through your vision and the support that you've provided over the years along with our senior leaders. So first off, we want to thank you for that.
 Then we're going to talk a little bit about how industry practices and experience help guide the operations here for our park system in El Paso. And lastly, we're going to look at the special challenges that we faced this year because this year is going to be quite different than any in the past for many reasons. So at this point, I want to introduce to you our park
 superintendent, Emigdio Gonzalez, who leads all of our teams in the field in doing the extraordinary jobs every day. Thank you very much. Thank you, Joel. Mr. Mayor, Council Members, good afternoon. I'd like to begin by embedding this presentation in our mission to enhance the quality of recreational environments across the city. One of the ways that we organize our
 thinking about this is to say that we take a value added approach to all the steps that are required to actually enhance existing facilities to make them better over time. We have some rigorous frameworks that we have taken over from our CAPRA accreditation that will actually put some detail behind how we can stand and say we really look at everything from a value added point of view. Next slide, please.
 One of the ways that we look at the process of providing healthy turf, and the reason that we use that as a guidepost for quality, is that consistent healthy turf is one of the key and easily attainable benchmarks for quality park systems. When we take a look at the actual process of getting to a healthy turfgrass system, the obvious support for that is the water added to it,
 Many of us are used from a residential point of view that if you water it, it'll grow. However, it's more complicated when we get to large, heavily used turf systems. So we have to take into account the cultural practices. What is it that we do to sustain healthy turf to be able to accept the right amount of water?
 Again, what is it that we add as far as nutrients and soil amendments to take care of the root system, those eight or 10 inches below the surface that actually drive healthy turf?
 And then finally, how do we work with stakeholders and end users to be able to manage use and wear so that the ongoing healthy turf system can be sustained? And not simply sustained current conditions, but sustained at an enhanced level going forward. The one cinch that holds all of this together that provides both structure and balance are operational resources.
 that hold the stool holding up healthy turf grass together and strong. It is those operational resources we'd like to address now to follow up on Joel's introduction. Next slide, please. We'll begin with an operational proven history beginning from 2014 with a little bit of detail about what it is that we need to purchase to provide professional quality results at specifically designed sites.
 For example, equipment that we've received not only replaced existing equipment that had exceeded the useful life, but we actually added specialized maintenance equipment for designated sports fields.
 The piece of equipment on the right is a reel mower that does the following. And this is the level of enhancement that we want to get to on designated sports fields and on staff so that they're able to take this enhanced equipment and deliver an enhanced product. One of the things that happens when we go from a rotary mower to a reel mowers
 is that we have to take into account also the patterns that we use when we cut a crosshatch 90 degree pattern. And that is because if we want to get to a professional grade, we cannot mow in the same direction every time because then we have a grain built into the grass that will actually affect the role of a soccer ball, for example.
 so that we have an established pattern that rotates from orientation site to end so that we don't foster bent grain, and we're able to have professional-grade turf as a result so that we get true roll from the balls. Another interesting application of additional funding that we've received addresses one of the key supports for our system, namely water uses.
 We have faced increased water rates for the last few years, and we have had additional funding to be able to pay for that water usage, to be able to put down a sufficient amount of water to foster good growth, and good growth then defined by allowing the root system to penetrate further into the subsoil so that we have health coming from below to be able to deliver a good finished product on top.
 We've also been able to set aside increased level of care for Westside sports, but regrettably that funding is no longer available to us in the current budget due to pandemic limitation. Next slide, please. Organizational improvements have been key to our ability to deliver improved results. And these are not presented to you in chronological order, but rather stacked for the level of impact and importance that they've had on our operation.
 Recently, we were able to fund and staff a second park operation superintendent position. And we saw the immediate benefit by incorporating the points of view and the experience of someone qualified to be able to take on half of a 300 park site system.
 That allowed for new thinking, innovative thinking, and shared responsibilities so that we were able to drill down to understand our operations at a deeper level instead of being able to address it only superficially due to lack of time and attention.
 Regrettably, that position has come open because the previous holder of that position has moved on due to promotion. But we are recruiting actively to that critically essential position so that we can have organized, good plans going forward. In addition, since 2014, we've added a playground supervisor position that is key for discharging our responsibility to provide safe play environments for children.
 It is a key part of organizing our assets and our way that we manage our assets to be able to evaluate from a rigorous point of view. The position of playground supervisor requires a certified playground safety inspector certification that looks at a playground environment from the end user's point of view so that we're able to provide a quality, safe environment.
 for young children up to people 13 and older when they use our exercise equipment installations. The playground supervisor position took all 200 plus playground sites and exercise units under one level of supervision.
 We've done the same with the irrigation supervisor position that was recently funded to be able to remove variation from the way different corrals in different areas approached irrigation control and put it under one supervisor with one uniform message and one uniform training program.
 so that we're able to standardize how we operate and standardize how we grow staff to be able to take on greater skill and responsibility to deliver a better product.
 We've added resident staff at Westside Sports. We've added additional notions about how to combine ourselves with Streets and Maintenance Department, where we moved over, because we're better able to leverage the resources that Streets and Maintenance has to be able to work across boundaries, so the boundaries become more of a document boundary as opposed to operational boundaries.
 Next slide, please. Again, since 2014, we've been able to integrate Lean, SIG, SIGMA, and Baldrige principles to improve our response time, to improve the focus on our daily results so that we are better able to build quality into everything that we do to be able to hold ourselves accountable to the notion that we can improve over time in a trackable and realistic way.
 We begin to move towards centralized computer control of our irrigation systems that will provide benefits like water conservation and management through Rain Bird centralized computer control systems, namely MaxiComm and IQ. And importantly, we've been able to obtain accreditation with the CAPRA. CAPRA is an NRPA organization.
 We're a commission accredits park and recreation agencies to attest to the best practices operation across the nation. So that we're able to improve the way that we operate going forward in a meaningful and accountable way. There are some key benefits that come to us from using a CAPRA approach. Namely, and they come in two fashions.
 We're able to say that the benefit to the public is that we hold ourselves more accountable for delivering enhanced systems and operations. From our own operation, we're able to generate better training to our staff because we become insistent on understanding how we're operating and do an extensive amount of self-evaluation so that we can hold ourselves to higher standards over time.
 Next slide, please. Ongoing process improvements include migrating over to City Works' asset management system that's already in place with streets and maintenance department to be able to improve workflow, to be able to improve tasks, scheduling, and reporting. We're also able to monitor improved completion records and associated costs based off of our maintenance history.
 This will be done by having field staff utilize iPads to manage local data to be able to account for two key needs. We will use this, for example, with playground safety inspections.
 As part of the obligation for a certified playground safety inspector is to provide timely inspections and then to document that over time so that we have a record of our efforts to provide due diligence inspections and to correct deficiencies as we find them.
 It is much more efficient to go to a database system driven by iPads and digitized information rather than to try to track that information on paper forms. In addition, improved maintenance training for irrigators has a clear benefit to the end result, namely improved turf condition. And it is through computerized central control that we are able to do that. Next slide, please.
 The benefits that flow from computerized central control are twofold. One is fairly dramatic. One of the reasons that application of water is such a key quality indicator to most observers is that it's quite a show to see 80 gallons per minute flowing through an irrigation system and putting up fans of water across turf.
 However, when we have 200 gallons per minute flow through because we have a broken main line, that's also fairly dramatic. And it also creates this sort of loss and lack of control that is part of antiquated, outdated systems. So one of the water conservation methods that is the dramatic version of it is that we'll be able to put in place
 centralized computer-controlled components, namely a flow sensor, that will be able to tell when we're not pushing 80 gallons per minute or we're pushing 200 gallons per minute. And that flow sensor is tied into the system and does a good enough job that it will either shut off the faulty component or shut off the entire system and then alert via smart communication link to say, you have a problem here, you need to come fix it.
 That is a dramatic improvement to getting 2 a.m. calls from the fire department, the police department, or the water department to say, you have created a river down east of Huacaba next to Westside Sports, which used to be a common event. Along with that dramatic version of water conservation becomes the less dramatic but equally important being able to apply the right amount of water in the right time in the right sequence.
 The way that that happens is healthy turf evaporates water and transpires water through the leaf. There are clear climatic and weather data that we can use. This data to calculate how much of that is going on and how much water we need to apply. A centralized computerized system will actually calculate that and build into the irrigation system how much water needs to be applied, what sequence and at what time.
 This is a high priority for us because with increasing water costs going forward, the more efficient we can be at conserving water, the better use we'll be able to put the amount available to us now and able to conserve to be able to take care of new sites as they come online. With increased funding, it does not mean that we have to give up the opportunity to control costs to be able to save costs over time. Next slide, please.
 activities that go back to the four-legged stool we began this with. There are specific cultural practices that we take to be able to use each of the components that hold up that good, healthy turf quality to best advantage. So, for example, the reason that we aerate, the reason that we punch holes into the turf is to relieve compaction that comes from a
 feet stepping in the area time and again, and also to increase water infiltration so that we're able to get water where it needs to go down to the root system. At the same time, relieving compaction so that the turf has a better chance of recovering.
 We need to continue to add water as needed, both for turf and for plant needs, to be able to offset the water loss and to protect the investment in turf and associated plants. We need to continue to add plant nutrients and soil amendments to give ourselves the best opportunity to generate healthy turf over time.
 And one of the things that keeps turf going healthy over time is the notion that it has to be a sustainable program. One of the options that we offer to our designated game field users is not available during the wintertime for extended play.
 because extended play when turf is dormant essentially scrapes the top layer off, the stuff that we call green turf, green grass, and that limits the grass's ability to recover and it limits its ability to stay rich and full over time. Next slide, please. So the activities we've been conducting recently from January through April, I'll begin with weed control. Weed control has to have at least two phases attached to it.
 In simple terms, there are cool season weeds that we have to account for during cool weather, and then we have to prepare to address warm season weeds that will be prevalent when turf is growing actively. One of the key ways to use an integrated pest management approach is to have healthy enough turf that it chokes out weeds to be able to limit the weeds' ability to grow.
 That is the ultimate goal for a successful and healthy turf coverage. And, of course, we get there by aerating it to allow compaction relief and infiltration. Irrigating correctly over time so that we provide the water needed when it's needed. Feeding nutrients and amendments so that we can foster the right kind of growth. And finally, mowing. Even during times when there is no active grass growing, you'll see us mowing...
 turf areas now when we're actually mowing at a lower rate, namely 70 75 hundredths of an inch height, we're actually knocking down winter weeds to keep them from setting seed again to become a problem for us in the future. So when you see activity when there's no green grass, it's actually a cultural practice designed to get us a running start on weed control going forward. Next slide, please.
 So this is the point now where we talk about transition from winter dormancy to spring green up and I'll give you some detail about it so that it becomes a way to understand both the process and the process of improvement over time. Next slide please. Contrary to most expectation, air temperature alone does not play a significant role in green up. But there are two elements that do trigger green up, namely soil temperature at a six-inch depth.
 triggers the beginning of green up. And then finally, day length, which is the key to creating active growth and dormancy overcome to get to the point where turf is actually repairing itself. Next slide, please. We measure soil temperature at six inch depth. It's a key to stimulating the beginning of green up.
 And so in simple terms, at six inches of depth, once the soil reaches a 65 degree Fahrenheit consistent temperature, Bermuda starts to come out of dormancy and starts to green up. It is green, beginning to be green, but it's devoting all its energy to coming out of dormancy. At this point, we cannot recover from high use wear. Next slide, please.
 Here's a snapshot of temperature of six inches depth that'll take into account the dramatic drop on the February 15th date. That's the day after the snow and ice storm. And that's what happens when you add four inches of ice and snow on top of ground that's starting to warm up. So you see the 58 degrees for the two prior readings and then a 15 degree drop.
 That also takes into account the fact that we had overcast skies and no passive solar gain. So we dropped into the 43s, 15-degree drop, and we've been slowly making our way back. Currently, I can tell you that we're now at 62 over the last two readings since we published this report, and we expect to see that continue going forward. Next slide, please.
 The key trigger for active growth and active repair of bermudagrass is driven actually by day length. And that is going to happen when the day length is significantly greater than the night length. On March 20th, we had the spring equinox when essentially day and night were of equal duration. Going forward, on an average increase of two minutes per day of additional daylight,
 Even though it's hard for us to discern that, Bermuda class grass is expert at discerning that. So we anticipate active growth based off of this trigger beginning March 31 tomorrow and going forward in conjunction with improved six inch soil temperature, we'll start to see green up that's not only green on top, but is actually gearing up to repair itself and to create healthy turf. Next slide please.
 In some, how is it that this is important to us as stewards of our turf and to you as people significantly interested in making more of this and enhancing what we have already? Well, the simple facts are that green space is limited in El Paso. It is the nature of the system that we're in, and the system that we're in
 does not have sufficient sites to accommodate all team sports activities effortlessly. So it takes control and management to be able to do the best we can with what we have now and had sent going forward and then grow the system both in terms of assets and quality of management of those assets to improve over time. And then again, we're faced with the impact of the pandemic
 where the current resources are not the same currently as we had previously. It becomes then our charge and responsibility to address that, to be able to deliver on our obligation to provide the best product that we can. Going forward is how we'll address the next few slides. Next slide, please. This is the way that we have set up our tier system
 presented back in 2019 to Council about how we designate the level of care for each of the tiers that we have listed on the screen. Tier number five is the natural spaces. And moving back up to tier one, tier one is our designated game fields and San Jacinto Plaza. They are the ones that we will hold out and not apply restrictions to unless it becomes absolutely necessary.
 So Tier 1 accounts for 160 acres of turf. We use 17% of our permanent full-time employee hours, these 160 acres, which is 17% of labor to 12% of turf acreage. To extend the idea, we use 17% of our available labor against 8% of total part acres that are represented in Tier 1.
 This is a conscious dedication of resources to give us the best opportunity to deliver a quality game ready field and designated game field. In an environment where we have limited resources, it becomes not only difficult to address the needs of the lower tiers,
 But in this instance, we have even lost some staffing at designated game fields due to promotions and retirements. Along with promotions and retirements, we lose a fair amount of institutional knowledge that we have to go back and retrain for. Next slide, please. When we take a look at permitted use, if we look at it through filters, we're assigning permitted use by tier. Designated game fields...
 are permit use only. With exhaustive use during major tournaments, we can run into some issues that are hard to overcome. One of the standards used across the nation is that whenever we have illuminated fields, you have to add fencing to it because otherwise they will draw so much use and attention that they will hurt the capacity to regenerate and create maintenance issues going forward.
 One of the issues that we have been able to track is that we have limited green space available in tiers one, twos and threes, so that that drives use into neighborhood parks that are not normally considered to be team sport ready. One example that I can cite for you is at Coyote Park on the east side.
 It is blessed as a small park. It's blessed with great illumination that makes it a nice place to walk in the evening. However, it also draws organized team sports play on a park that's not designed to hold up to excessive use. And we now have that turf during the off season when it shouldn't have been used at that degree suffered to the point that we may have to go back and salvage it.
 and in an environment we have limited resources where we are now advising that what we usually do interior ones, namely that we do turf renovation at the center of the field and at the goldmouths where most of the activity occurs in our leagues. We're now able to only offer the possibility that we'll repair goldmouths at designated game fields due to limitations for the budget and staff.
 the possibility of going to a small part like Ryota to repair it will create a challenge for us. So in the end, we end up having more resources assigned to tier one, even though it's a smaller size and does only 35% of the permitted use than we do in tiers two and three, where we have much more acreage, much more usage, but less staff dedication.
 and we end up with the Coyote Parks of the World where smaller parks have unsanctioned organized team play to the detriment of the turf. Next slide, please. To recap, we understand our obligation to deliver sound quality customer service and performance goals for the amenities and assets that we manage. We also understand that high demand on limited playing service leads to excessive wear
 that will not repair itself essentially. In addition, high demand causes overflow from designated play areas, green spaces, into neighborhoods, parks and smaller parks that impact those communities. And then finally, we understand that our inventory currently does not support the current demand for game and practice sites sustainable, which means that we have to address
 what we have with the resources we have at hand now. Next slide, please.
 This is what happens in unfenced, unsanctioned play where we have lots of activity because of the skill level of the users. It's center of the goal and goal mounts in center of the field. And they essentially scrape the top layer of grass off, which keeps the bottom roots from being able to perform their job to grow and repair itself. Loving a field to death is...
 not recommended, but it is part of the reality that we face due to the limits of both resources available to us and acreage available to the end users. Next slide, please. So how can we quantify what it is that it takes to maintain sustainably good field conditions over time? One way to think of it,
 in this breakout is to say, if you use a field for two hours every Saturday and Sunday across the year, you've exceeded the 200 hours that's the upper limit for sustaining good field conditions.
 And those are hours across the entire year. And certainly use of it during dormancy in the early spring and in the fall, when in fact many of our soccer leagues are conducting play, adds additional strain to it. Because the use is coming at a time of either in dormancy or coming out of dormancy that weaken the Terps' ability to recover.
 So instead of two hours per Saturday and Sunday for the year, if you take that to four hours, then you've crossed the limit from where we can maintain fair to good field conditions, where we start to see thinning of the turf and localized wear area. If you get beyond 600 hours total for the year on any field, you have significant turf loss. The field surface itself becomes damaged and rutted. It cannot recover, and in fact, it cannot recover to the point without intervention
 that it can create a possibility of injury to the athletes running across it. Uneven turf and uneven turf grass is a liability to the user. And it takes much less than most people assume to be able to get to those perilous conditions. So the impact of hours of use over time has to be why one of the legs that we put on our stool
 And that is the need to manage use and manage where and respond to it in a fiscally responsible manner. Next slide, please. So leaning forward, to recap, we anticipate that it is going to be inevitable for increased demand for park usage post-pandemic.
 We also recognize that our charge to account for new park sites coming on board are the result of economic vitality for the city. That is actually a blessing and we take it as such. However, it stretches our resources. Having said that, our obligation then is to do the best we can with what we have today.
 to look forward to the future to be able to ask for the right sort of organizational resources given our part in a fiscally and financially responsible organization. So to do that, we have program improvement requests that we'll make over time to address the following issue. Currently, we are at roughly 60% of our full-time employee on staff now. We have 39 open positions.
 including key skill positions like irrigation tech and equipment operator and groundskeepers. And in fact, it is not only true of our division, but true of streets and maintenance, where they have 70 open positions that are funded now compared to our 39 open positions that are funded now. We have also come across something new over time that becomes almost a structural problem with billing staff.
 namely that it is harder to fill these skill positions over the last couple of years than it was in the past. It is something that we have to address systematically to be able to give ourselves entry-level employees to grow over time to take on greater skill and responsibility. Another area where we'll be doing fiscally responsible requests for equipment
 has to do with the tools that we need to get the work done that we're charged with. I'll give you a brief example. Usually we talk about equipment as having exceeded its useful life. We now have equipment on hand that has exceeded the manufacturer's notion of what that model of equipment's lifespan is and what that means simply, for example, with trenchers or with front loaders that we use to do our work.
 is that there are no replacement parts available, either from the manufacturer or from aftermarket suppliers, because that model is so out of date that it's no longer supported. Think of it as a middle version of what happens to old Windows versions. So if we have a front loader, for example, that blows out a transmission, it does it on the street, it is a very dramatic thing that you see 25 gallons of hydraulic fluid spilling onto the street.
 But if that happens and there's no light model that we can cannibalize, then that goes to scrap. And we have to go to rental of equipment because we have money we can move around into a rental account where we don't have money available to us in the capital account to replace the piece of equipment. Then we take a look at things like infrastructure. It's interesting to follow a presentation about expansion on the east side
 because one of the things that we would like to have you consider for infrastructure is to add a fifth corral to get closer to the new activity on the east side. In terms of logistics and quick response, we're now driving there from northeast El Paso or from Mission Valley that just adds a large amount of windshield time. Infrastructure also accounts for requests for replacement playgrounds still needed.
 for amenities, benches, and tabletops that need to be replaced. And we do that fully aware of the situation that we're in as an organization, as an agency. We realize that the notion of requesting additional funding has got to be fiscally responsible. It is part of competing needs across a broad spectrum of needs that we have as an organization.
 and that we do this in a difficult and challenging time, about to get more difficult and challenging when the expected increase in demand manifests itself with foots on the ground in the parks. It is a complicated matrix that we are facing. There are sound decisions and difficult decisions to make. We would be grateful to participate in those discussions with future updates.
 Any questions? Yes, we have Representative Merriport and Schwartzbein and Representative Molina. Representative Schwartzbein, please. Thank you. Currently, how long does it take? First of all, thank you again for your presentation. Probably have been the one council member who's been sitting with this issue of parks and their condition.
 for the longest amount of time. And it's been a question that is brought up each and every year. It's brought up during the budget season. It's brought up with the condition of our parks by constituents. So I have a couple specific questions and larger sort of questions. How long does it take to usually replace a sprinkler or sprinklers in a park? The actual sprinkler replacement?
 assuming that that's the only thing that's involved. It can be pretty straightforward, probably an hour including backfill and compaction so that it doesn't float around. How does Parks actually go and figure out if there are sprinklers that are broken or parts of fields that aren't being watered adequately? The way to do that is to actually run the system and
 And I'll give you one scenario. There are some parks that are so large that if you stand at the controller, you need a second person to be able to go out into the zone being fired to assess each of the sprinklers and coverage.
 And what they do is one person stands at the control and fire off the zone. The person out in the zone itself will flag each of the sprinklers. And then once you identify the sprinklers to replace, then they attack that. There are instances where multiple sprinklers will fail. Sometimes they age out. Sometimes it's an issue with...
 people or kids knocking them over because they're up and it becomes a challenge to kick them over while they're spraying So it's a number of issues that drive the number of splinters we replace But it has to be in an on-site Inspection to be able to actually find them flag them and replace them and that is time-consuming across The number of parks that we have. Yeah, I asked that because there there are parks that are continuously
 in these in my district that are continuously brown and have dead patches regardless of the usage. And it's it's a continuous problem each and every year. And we hear about the need for additional technology or additional
 additional funding. And I don't know if I've seen such a large change each and every year, there's this need and request for new technology or for more funding. And so I totally recognize that the condition of our parks is not great, but I also haven't necessarily seen, I haven't necessarily seen such a large difference year over year.
 The same parks and the same parts of parks that are dead, that are dust bowls, are still there. And they were there in the summer of 2015 when I was first elected. And those same parks still have the same dust spots that they are in the summer of going into the summer of 2021. So...
 you know, this budget is going to be difficult. And I just I just I guess it's a question of it. You know what? What I guess the central issues are, because it seems like the condition of our parks, regardless of how much money we throw into them, tend to be, you know, a challenge at times. Let me let me address in part the reason why we put that second park operation superintendent
 that we were able to get to that position and first spot. That portfolio included irrigation to be able to provide the oversight and control over that essential part of our operation. The portfolio I cover because I'm a certified playground safety inspector of playgrounds.
 the right sort of command and control to be able to deliver better results. The irrigation supervisor we put in place is a new position that has been needed year upon year. That position will pay off. You'll be able to see concrete improvement over time, and I think that's – I'll stand behind that statement. The one thing that is –
 A skilled position, critically short, we're short of irrigation tax. We do not have enough. We have fewer than we had before, in fact. And we have had trouble filling those positions, in part because it's hard to compete with the private industry pay rate, is what we have been told.
 But the sense that we have currently is that we fill key positions and grow from within. We will be able to solve these long-standing issues successfully and concretely. Okay. Can you just help us? I have two questions, Mayor. So my first question is, can you help us understand in very basic language that we can repeat to our constituents
 the role and intersection and collaboration between street and maintenance and parks and rec as it relates to our city parks? That's the first question. And then the second question is in regards towards the West Side Soccer Complex,
 I know that there was ongoing issues with the condition of that field and we had dedicated staff placed to that. We removed that from COVID. So what is the status of the Westside Soccer Complex? Is that in Tier 1? And what are the plans for it being addressed in the upcoming year? Actually, E.G., if I may. Certainly. Sorry, E.G., if I may jump in. This is Ben Fife.
 Director of Cultural Affairs and Recreation. Representative Schwartzbein, I would offer, if you are seeing consistent issues in your district,
 I just had two questions right now. I have 10 minutes that I have. That's a totally separate thing. I would just like those two questions addressed at this point, if you don't mind. Because I'm going to be cut off, and then I'm going to have to possibly request to speak. And I know that nobody wants to hear me speak for another 10 minutes. So if you have something specific, I have no problem contacting you.
 If Mayor, Mayor Picham, if I may, your first question was about the specific role between Parks and Recreation Department and the Streets and Maintenance Department. So Streets and Maintenance actually has the Parks and Maintenance Division underneath it. Parks and Recreation Department is really there more there for programmatic roles. So our staff covers things like the, you know, the leagues, recreation, aquatics.
 senior centers, recreation centers. We work very closely with the maintenance staff at Streets and Maintenance whenever there are maintenance needs. Whenever there are maintenance requests, those also go into Streets and Maintenance as well, sir. And I would offer, if you would like to have us tour with you so you can show us specific parks and issues you're having, we're always happy to do that. Okay. So Parks and Rec no longer maintains parks?
 Actually, so it went back to the system that it was in previously. Streets and Maintenance has a number of resources they're able to bring to bear to be able to assist with the maintenance of the parks, sir. And that structure was in place previously. And then, Mr. Gonzalez, I don't know if you, about the Westside Soccer Complex.
 What's that, Sergeant? Pardon me, E.G. Representative Spargebein, this is Joel McKnight. Right now we've got it in the supplementals requesting that that funding be put back in that was taken away.
 for the added materials and everything else that went in for Westside and at the same time went in for Blackie Cheshire Parks. But at this point in time, it's still a Tier 1 park. It's just, quite frankly, because of the revenue shortfalls and everything else, we were forced to also make a change in –
 in what the ability or the goals for the maintenance are to where we keep it safe, but just like this last year, we were not able to oversee those fields because of that loss of funding. We're requesting it, but it's going to be a matter of what really the organization can sustain itself. And the last thing I would point out is,
 that when we talk about requesting money for technology and other things, it's to help make the system better. Most of these issues did not come about overnight, and so they're not going to be fixed overnight, and that's why every time that we get a chance, whether it's through the park board or when we speak to you or when we're talking to others, we remind folks that with 300 park sites,
 and only about a hundred when we're at full blast, around a hundred of staff in the field, we do not have enough eyes to see everything. And that's why we depend on the public who's out there to report them to us. And that's the reason that sometimes it may take two cycles or even a week to actually see it is because
 We may have been out there on Tuesday, and on Wednesday or Thursday something happened. We won't even, even if we're the ones seeing it, it'll be there a week. And that's the other thing that the technology on the irrigation requests does help because it sends a report in on those kinds of possible failures. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Schwartz. If I may, Mayor Pro Tem. So as part of our budget updates we've been doing, we've had some discussion about this. And I actually have another reference in my budget update presentation in regards to that enhanced sports complex maintenance that we have had built into the budget and unfortunately was deferred for this current year. But that's something that we've already been talking about. I've presented it a few times, and I'm going to present it again here in just a few minutes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. With that, we have Representative Mullinar,
 Representative Anello and thank you, Representative Schwartzweil. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Mr. E. Gonzalez, thank you very much for your presentation. Very articulate speaker, I must say. But I represent District 4. I'm going to talk about two different things, or really three different things. Number one, Joey Barraza and Vino Park, which is out there, a regional park in
 on Macomb Street. A lot of people are complaining about alcohol possession, alcohol consumption, sexual activities, homelessness, the congregation of vehicles and persons in the park after hours, and of course the noise issues, litter issues, and things like that. And I know we all can be out there at the right place at the right time, and I know budgets are tight right now, and we will be going into the budget season, but I
 I would think some point we need to really talk about security issues for whether besides just the police department, maybe some cameras, things like that. And I'll let you respond here shortly. And then the other thing, number two, is on Chuck Heinrich Park, which is located on Officer Andrew Barsena.
 been receiving some issues from constituents regarding parking issues, primarily more on the weekends when there's holidays, especially like two or three day, three day holidays, I should say. And of course the trash, but I've often wondered, and I've previously talked to other people when I think, you know,
 Mr. Mark Weber on this when he was to work for neighborhood services. Whenever, let's just say at Chuck Heinrich Park along Andrew Barsena Park, or excuse me, the drive, if we could have angled parking, number one, it would increase the number of parking spaces.
 parking spaces along the park. I would think it would be a lot better for the constituents, a lot better for the neighborhood, so those overflow don't go into the residential areas, that's for sure. And always, once again, more trash cans, but that would be something to consider. And as well on that one, as well, street cushions in the park area, if they could be installed in
 as part of the design phase, things like that. Then of course the third one. Mayor, I'm sorry, I don't mean to interrupt. Mr. Molinar, your request are beyond the purview of this management update. It's simply for park maintenance and turf updates. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. I appreciate that you're coming. Mayor, do you mind if I take my turn? Yes, Representative Nel. Thank you, Representative Molinar.
 Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Gonzalez, for the very in-depth presentation. And I don't know if you'll be able to answer my questions, but I was just wondering, I mean, I know there's a lot of need in our city. I know Representative Schwartzbein has focused on that in his district, Representative Molinar. I think all of us could sit here and tell you every issue we have with parks. I'm not going to do that. My question is, however, is there –
 do you all have some kind of working document or budget that is needed to improve parks citywide? And I guess what I'm trying to get at that is, can we in some way put together
 I guess for lack of a better idea, a strategic plan that this council can look at. Okay. This is our cost to improve all of our parks. This is our time frame be it five or 10 years. This is how much money we want to look at allocating every year to be able to improve that because it seems that every year we get up here we know that there's a need. We know that there's a cost. We all have our issues.
 But I think that you've put a lot of work into this, and I think that it would be really great moving forward if we can actually put together a strategic plan, again, using that term, to really hone in on this and focus on it and know that we have an end in sight to the problem.
 So I don't know if I actually even asked you a question there or if I was just kind of, you know, giving you my overall ideas on how to solve this problem. I think that's really a question for me with Zirinello. I'll address that. So there has been a lot of improvements done over the years. Some of it was presented wrong.
 by MIGLIO, some of it wasn't. There's been an incredible amount of work that has been done and a lot of money that has been set aside for parks. The problem is that even though these improvements have happened over the years and the dollars have increased, the inventory has increased every year as well. It's part of the problem. We keep buying horses and we don't have enough money to keep feeding them with hay. It just keeps happening over and over and over. Parks is just one example of that. We're building new recreation centers.
 filling new facilities, and then there's older facilities that are not getting as much use, but because they're sentimental and they're in different areas of town, we can't begin to say, oh, we're going to shut those down because they're just not profitable because then we get told, well, certain services are not supposed to be profitable. But a lot of these things do not even begin to, not even a smidgen, pay for themselves because it is very much supported by the general fund, period, and nothing else.
 Water rates go up every year, or almost every year, and we're one of the biggest users. So when the rates go up, and even if we put more money towards parks, we don't get as much water as we did before with the same money. The issues in terms of maintaining the parks and the safety around the parks, we created the VIP program.
 that was slowed down by COVID. A lot of these things were slowed down by COVID. We were going in a really good pace. We were making some progress. We were given some reports on how we were greening up the grass. Last year, or the year before, was a little bit different than this year's report. We wanted you to see this unvarnished, so you can see this straight from the folks on the ground. We have gone in and made lots of improvements, but,
 Really, the growth of it and the expansion of it, it just keeps growing, keeps getting bigger. And we can put a plan together. I can put a plan together. It's going to be a big price tag, a very big price tag. And there's always a push.
 and a pressure point with taxes. And again, when you look at the 2012 package for the quality of life and then the street package in that same program, the fact that we put in a couple of other programs that this council approved for more street improvements, which were needed, and then we recently passed the public safety improvement bond, you're looking at over a billion dollars worth of improvements that can only be done
 in such a way where you have to manage the growth patterns of the revenues that are coming in versus the expenses that it's gonna cause. A park is 100% maintenance.
 And so it's very cost heavy on the use of water, where some of our facilities that are indoors might not be as costly because it's not as intensive as the water usage is.
 So it is something that, yes, we can, to answer your question, we can put it together. I think each year we have come in with different programs, different recommendations, more dollars. There's only so much money, I think, that y'all can stand to throw at something because it's a big price tag. So one of the things that this presentation should have focused on a little bit more
 is on how we're automating, because automating would be a really smart way of how you can do things cheaper. So you don't need as much staff in order to, in the long term, take better care of these facilities. I did that in another city that I was at, saved quite a bit of money.
 but it costs a great deal of money to automate your entire system, and we simply are not automated. I mean, there's a lot of areas that we need improvement in. I mean, I could talk about other departments that aren't automated, like the bridges, but I won't because it's not on the agenda. But that's just an example of how we're in the department. We keep growing and we keep expanding, and we're not maintaining what we have, let alone when we keep adding things. Sure, and I think automation is a great example, right, because I know –
 I said I wasn't going to do it, but for me, it's Memorial Park, right? And we hear all the time irrigation needs to be updated. It needs to be automated. And so, right, how can we actually put together a plan to get to that goal, you know, if automating is our goal across the city? Another question I have, and Mr. Kutcher.
 You're both Mr. Gonzalez's. Maybe this is for you. When I first came into office, there was a conversation about alternative materials for sports fields. I know that failed at council. I was one of the members who didn't support that, but I also did not have a lot of information at the time. I don't know if that's something that staff is still interested in. That's perfect.
 Yes, sir. But after term? Mm-hmm. Yes, ma'am. It doesn't prove out to be that less expensive. I think in some cases it costs more. It's a good point. Thank you for bringing it up. To answer your question back to the automation, the project that I'm referring to I did in the 90s.
 And the first city I was at. And so that's how long ago automation has been talked about. So the fact that we're severely behind the eight ball, if you know what I'm saying. And to answer your question in terms of how much it would cost, it would be in the tens of millions of dollars. You know, you're talking about $40, $50, $60 million. But if you were to make it a CIP program.
 But your question, if you automate, it would be a better way to control the system. Just like water departments have SCADA systems where they're all automated, it would make a lot of sense to do the same thing for the Parks Department. But yes, ma'am, you bring up a good point with regard to having a plan in place and executing it. I'm just warning everyone it's going to be a big moment.
 Sure, absolutely. And I think you've worked with me long enough to know that, right, I like to see the big picture and then scale down there. I know not everyone works like that. But I think it also gives us a realistic picture of what we're working with, right? Because every year we do have this conversation and we try to put in little pieces to fix it. And I think that
 if we see what the whole picture is and we try to make the best impacts that we can over time, we'll get a better result. So I look forward to that information. So we will work on that, Ms. Anello. And I think you're referring to sort of incrementalism, going in with a plan, having a vision, and recommending what those costs would be. So we'll work on that and bring that back to council. Thank you. I appreciate it. Yes, ma'am.
 Thank you. And with that, make sure we don't have any other questions. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Mr. Gonzalez, both of you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And with that, Ms. Prine, I know we're three minutes away from public comment. And I know the next item is going to be a little bit longer than three minutes. Yes, sir. We do have one person that signed up for for call to the public. I don't see that person in the queue yet.
 But it's not 530 yet. No, I know. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I was wondering. Okay, Mr. Cortinas, I think it would be nice, can we take the next item? Yes, sir. Item 17 is a budget update on the second quarter financial report. Afternoon, Mayor and Council. Robert Cortinas. Hello, Mr. Cortinas. Okay, so this budget update, we're going to focus on a couple of things. We're going to be looking at the second quarter financial report for the current year, and we're also going to do a little bit of a recap again just as a reminder of how we were able to balance the budget for this current year.
 And then we're going to do another recap on looking ahead to the budget, sort of building on some of the things we just talked about with this discussion and what we're looking at as far as services for next year. So, again, a little bit of a recap again, and this is important because it's going to be the foundation and how we set the tone for how we're going to develop the budget for this upcoming budget year. So, again, it really was built on number one priority was holding the line on the tax rate this year.
 But at the same time also ensuring that we continue to focus on the basics. So ensuring that we're invested in our police, our fire, our health and our workforce. Some of the discussion also we just heard about vacant positions. The non-essential vacant positions in order to accomplish that number one bullet point there of holding the line on taxes was to unfund a large majority of our non-essential vacant positions. Additionally again the deferring of some of the pay go money, the set aside funds that we have for our residential street projects.
 our public safety capital, and also the sports complex maintenance that you just heard about. Again, all of these things were done, and these tools that we had in place were what really allowed us to be able to hold the line on taxes, but at the same time being able to continue to invest in those core services. And then again, the delaying of the new amenities opening up, which we had great news yesterday of announcing those and when those are gonna be opening up here over the next couple of weeks. And then again, the deferring of the capital projects,
 and then the federal funding that we received. And so it was all of those tools that really allowed us to develop a budget that was not only balanced, but then also, again, dealing with the limited revenues as a result of COVID while at the same time protecting as many of the services as possible. So here's a snapshot at our general fund revenues. This shows you the budget, the current year actuals, and then shows you a comparison to the prior year in the same time period. So this is through February. See our revenues for this year, $347 million, compared to the prior year at $330 million, the largest year.
 Variance there obviously is property taxes, and that's a result of the increase in taxable values that we had, and also the result of deferring the debt issuance for this current year. And so again, those two things were what allowed us to be able to generate additional property tax revenue. Pretty much on target with a historical average on where we're at as far as revenue collection. You see the percentages there.
 79% collected this year compared to 74 in the prior year. And again, the largest piece there has been sales taxes, which I'm going to talk a little bit more about here in just a second. So our largest revenue source, property tax collections. Again, I know some people are expecting some type of impact from COVID on our property tax collections. We have seen none. This is a percentage collection of the tax levy. You see the red line there is the current year. The blue dotted line is the prior year.
 and we're right on track with what we normally collect. We're at just about 96% and over the next couple of months, we'll continue to collect that remaining 4% again following the historical historical pattern on sale on property tax collections. In regards to sales tax, again, this is something that we continue to monitor very closely. Again, this is our second largest revenue source for the general fund, makes up about 17%. You'll see the first couple of months here of this current fiscal year, the green bars there starting back in September, we saw a really nice increase.
 And then we really started to see a flatten off in October, November, December of our sales tax collections for the City of El Paso. I'm happy to report that when you look at January, that green bar compared to the red bar, that's the current year versus the prior year. We did see a really nice increase in current period collections for January. And again, this is something we'll continue to monitor as we go throughout the next couple of months and we develop the budget for next year and what that revenue estimate is going to look like. We're going to take a snapshot look at the general fund expenses, again broken down by strategic goal.
 You look at public safety, obviously the number one priority, the largest component, almost two-thirds of the general fund budget there at $277 million. Overall expenses actually down by a little over $4 million, and that's due to, again, a wide range of those things that we just talked about as far as the deferment and the non-essential vacancies that were put in place. When you look at the percentage spent compared to the percentage spent in the prior year, again, pretty much right on target with where we are historically as far as expenditures.
 When we take a look at the non-general fund revenue, again, this is something that we've reported on going all the way back to March and what we're looking at as far as the impact on some of these main non-general fund revenue sources. So we're looking at the hotel occupancy tax. Again, even though our hotel occupancy is up, we're leading the state right now at about 62%, 63% compared to the state at about 42%. The average daily rate is down. So what that means is that we're actually generating less revenue. So you see the impact there.
 But again, encouraging news to see that the occupancy is beginning to increase and we expect that to continue as we get more and more of our population vaccinated. The airport and on some Metro again, you see the impact there. Those two will point out though we have a footnote there at the bottom. We did receive quite a bit of money from the federal government, not only through the CARES Act, but also through the bill that was signed this past December. And then each will be receiving additional allocation as part of the American Rescue Plan, both airport and some Metro operations.
 and again those funding sources from the federal government are going to provide the ability for them to continue their funding they're operating and be able to offset the impact that we've seen from the employments being down the one i'll point out there at the bottom is due operations this is one that we continue to monitor and very happy that the zoo is finally back open as of february 10th because unfortunately like a lot of the other services where if we don't have individuals or
 We were able to actually shut down the entire facility and recognize the full savings. We're not able to do that with the zoo. Obviously we have animals that need to be tended to and costs that we will continue to incur with no revenue source coming in. So again, exciting that the zoo's back open. I took my kids for spring break and there was a very, very long line to get in. So I know as we go throughout the next several months, we're going to see that revenue continue to increase for the zoo, which is really, really great news.
 Just a couple of slides here show you some data points again and you've seen some of this information the cross-functional team presentations we've done over the last several months but again looking at the airport and the appointments again continue to see pretty much about a third of a decrease compared to what we've seen historically but again it's pretty flattened off and again as more and more of our population not only in the city but across the country get vaccinated we're excited to see that number start to increase.
 Our mass transit, again, pretty stable over the last several months, about the last six months or so. And again, something we continue to monitor. We work very closely with Ellen on their budget. The one good point on the mass transit is that the largest revenue source for them is that dedicated half cent. So as I mentioned just a few minutes ago, that sales tax performing a little bit better than what we expected is really helping the mass transit department deal with the impacts they're seeing on the fare collections.
 On the bridges again, this is something we continue to monitor because of the impact of the general fund and the transfer that we get from our international bridges. Again, working very closely with David Cornell and his team on what we're looking at as far as not only pedestrian but passenger crossing as well. And again, you see that increase there on the cargo side, but then again the corresponding decreases in both vehicle and pedestrian. Here's a slide showing the hotel occupancy that I just referenced. And again, you see where we are March of this year compared to March of the prior year, a significant improvement.
 We bottomed out last year at just over 40%. This year you see that we're well above that, really, really strong increase in our hotel occupancy. But again, we need to begin to see a little bit of an increase in the average daily rates so that we do see the increase in that revenue source. But again, really encouraging news that we are seeing that increase in the actual occupancy. So we talked about this at the beginning. Again, just if you keep these things in the back of your mind because this is really what's gonna set the tone as I mentioned, really set the base for us moving forward as we develop the budget for the upcoming fiscal year.
 Again, just a reminder on what the process looks like and where we're at right now. We're currently in our Tri-Met budget survey. I'm very happy to report we've got over 4,000 responses so far, so a lot of output or input coming so far from our community. We'll be receiving the preliminary property values from CAD here next month, and then you can see that we lead all the way up to August when the budget will be adopted. So we're still a long ways away. The budget office is right now in the process of working with the departments, beginning to put together a budget that –
 will be presented to the city manager and the leadership group, which will then be fine tuned before we present that to the council in the next couple of months. So again, looking at next year's budget assumptions and what we've talked about over the last couple of months already. So we presented the five year forecast on February 15th. Again, looking at prioritizing our restoration of our adjustments. So that list that I just showed you, the pay go money that we talked about specifically for the streets and public safety capital, looking at our vacancies,
 continue to invest in those core services, our public safety, looking at the quality of life rollout and the phased-in service approach that we talked about, and then finally our workforce, which is critical that we continue to invest in them as far as compensation and health care. Some of the things that we talked about earlier with the comptroller report on the CAFR and the training and development we have for our city employees.
 So this is a slide that we showed again back in February with that five-year forecast of utilizing that phased-in approach. This really ties in a lot to not only the limited revenues that we have projected for not only this coming year but also down the road. And this also factors in some of the discussion that we had about Senate Bill 2 and the property tax reform bill that was passed in the 2019 legislative session. So some of the discussion that we just had about the parks and the investment and the need really going to be compounded by our ability to raise enough revenue to be able to fund some of those things with having that 3.5% cap
 that's going to be put in place or hasn't been put in place by the state. So again, that's just going to add an additional challenge that we need to find a way to work around. But again, this is important because we really do want to make sure that we're focusing on not only making decisions for the current year, but that we continue to have that long-term focus in the back of our minds and really making fiscally responsible decisions this year to have a positive output in future years. So this is a breakout. Again, if you look at this slide again real quickly, our current year expenses, $442 million, with what we're projecting right now with...
 Taking into account the contractual obligations, some of the other items we just talked about, $474 million on revenues and then $480 million roughly on expenses. That's about a $38 million increase on the expenditure side of utilizing the phased-in approach. And so breaking down that phased-in approach and what those investments are going to look like, at the top of the list, public safety. And this is primarily the collective bargaining agreement impacts, going back to doing the two police academies.
 the set aside funds for our public safety capital. So that's about 4 million. This includes restoring the street maintenance, the residential street project funding as well as the ADE on demand funding. So that's a little over 7 million. We just talked about and here it is on the slide and I presented this before. The one and a half million that we had built in and set aside funds for facility improvements and also the additional one and a half million for our sports complexes. That additional one and a half million and then the 400,000 for the sports court resurfacing. So
 the budget and really what our emphasis is going to be for next year are these the set-aside funds that we had established a couple of years ago restoring these so that we could continue making progress with with what we've been able to do over the last few years and then you see the five million dollar increase from core life services so again this is the phased-in approach of continue to build upon what we had in the budget for this year one of the key things that we're going to continue to work on over the next several months is looking at the vacancies and what vacancies get funded for next year
 Again, we had several hundred nonessential vacancies that were unfunded in order to hold the line on the tax rate this year. So as we go throughout the next couple of months, something we'll be looking at closely and prioritizing which of those vacancies does get funded for next year. Just a quick reminder, we're missing the Mayor Rep. Schwartzbein, Anelo Rodriguez. Thank you. So again, about a $38 million increase overall in expenses projected right now for next year.
 And then this slide here breaks down by strategic goal and where those increases are. You'll see some of the large increases, percentage increases, and again that's the restoration of that set of site funds we talked about, whether it be for streets or for the sports complexes. I do want to point out, you look at the bottom of that footnote, that these numbers are really based on preliminary information at this time. And on the expenditure side, we're pretty comfortable. I don't expect too much fluctuation on what we're showing you here.
 But again, we're in the very early stages of developing the budget for next year. And then as well really on the revenue side, we have still yet to receive the preliminary report. We received a pre-preliminary report, but that's not even the preliminary report from the Central Appraisal District yet as to what our taxable values are going to look like for next year. So again, very early stages, but wanted to give you all an idea on the things we've already talked about as a reminder. Really on the expenditure side utilizing that phased-in approach
 focusing on the core services, and again, dealing with potential impact from the property tax reform bill that was passed a couple of years ago by the state, which limits our ability to raise property tax revenue beyond that 3.5% cap. So again, the number one thing that we have to keep in the back of our minds, I showed that five-day forecast and what that looks like, is really focusing on not only the short term but also on the long term, minimizing the impact to our taxpayers again, and that phased-in approach accomplishes that.
 It also accomplishes by prioritizing services and then restoring, obviously, through that phased approach that we've discussed over the last couple of months, while at the same time continue to focus on investing in our workforce, which we've done over the last six-plus years. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Yes, we have Representative Hernandez. Go ahead, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Robert, thank you for the presentation. I have a...
 Can you go back to the beginning of this slide? I'm sorry, can you bring your presentation back up? And I'm looking at the, you can just go to the beginning. Okay, so can you go back to the general fund? Can you explain a little bit, oh, and I'm sorry, I missed last council meeting. So related to the American Rescue Plan and the funding that we're getting, how are you all gonna be reporting on that in tandem with the budget?
 The funding that the city will get. And you're on mute Mr. Cortinas. You're referring to the 159 million. Mr. Cortinas is on mute. Yes. Yes. Let me let me answer part of that question before he unmutes himself or in the process of unmuting himself. The 159.2 million and the county received 162 million I believe those dollars. If you remember the CARES funding was specifically for
 different programs to help the community with the pandemic response as well as with economic recovery and the basics like the food sustenance and things of that nature. So that was very much a community fund.
 The current one that just got allocated, and we haven't received it yet, we won't receive the first tranche till mid-May. And the 159 that was allocated was to make up for the revenue losses, expenses. If y'all remember, we mentioned to y'all that the CARES funding did not account for that, did not allow us to use that for those purposes.
 So the 159.2 is going to primarily be looked at for that first. It's not precluded, however, from other projects where we might be able to partner with other agencies, like the county, other nonprofits, depending on what the project is. For example, Wi-Fi or homelessness, trying to address those issues.
 But that's the first priority for those dollars, and that whenever that was allocated by the federal government, it was to make up for the revenue losses, the expenses that they incurred in addition to what they had to do to operate their cities and counties, but also what COVID impacted them with. So if y'all remember, January, February, March, all the way that gets into May until we receive the money, we told you we have a $2.5 million allocation that we're paying out of our own pocket.
 that we did it through savings. And so that is going to happen till May till we get those dollars. And we hope to use those dollars to reimburse ourselves for the money we spent primarily for, not primarily, all of it for COVID and the pandemic response.
 And Robert, that funding, just for your question, I'm sorry. For that funding that you're talking about reimbursement, we will have the ability to apply to get reimbursement additionally for that funding and other stuff that we talked about today, sir. That's what I just said, that the two and a half million dollars that we're spending per month on the pandemic response,
 I'm not giving you a definitive answer because Robert has not received and all the CFOs and the GFOA, the Government Finance Officers Association, has sent.
 And that might be what you're referring to, Mayor, who sent a list of questions to the Treasury. We want to get answers to all those questions to make sure that everything I just told you, that we're able to use it for those kinds of things in terms of specifically. I know you can use it for COVID-related expenses, but there's a lot of questions within the questions
 how you can use it, and all the CFOs across the country, including ours, being very careful to make sure that everything we spend is all within the guidelines so that when we get audited, which we're told we will on this issue, that we make sure that all the expenses are utilized for those things that are approved in those guidelines. So, Mayor, I hope I answered your question.
 Yeah, yeah, sorry for the interruption, Representative. That's okay, I hope I answered it. No, that's okay. And there was a reason why, because I saw in one of the subcategories of the titles, Mr. Cortina's, that you were, that all of these assumptions were excluding any pandemic-related expenses. And so it gets, for me to follow, it gets very confusing for me to differentiate what our general fund
 non-recoverable expenses, if you will, that will be paid for by the American Rescue Plan allocation that the city will get. And then what is our current – this kind of gives you a snapshot that we've already collected about 80% of the revenues, so there is still time to receive an additional 20% of our expected revenues for the remainder of this current fiscal year. Is that the way I'm understanding it, or 21%?
 That's right. Yeah. And so the issue with the American Rescue Plan right now and that funding, the city manager just talked about it, is we're still pending the guidance from the Treasury Department. And so they're working on putting together the actual clarification on a lot of the questions that have been compiled. They need to give guidance on those specifics related to those four criteria, which I presented to anyone at CFTs a couple of weeks ago.
 Because there's a lot of questions. I mean, there's wording in the bill that was actually signed that it's not clear. I mean, it references a covered period, but it doesn't actually state what that covered period is. And so we're just waiting to get that guidance from the Treasury Department before we can tell you all, yes, we'll be able to reimburse ourselves. Because right now, it's uncertain until we get that guidance. That funding is going to be rolled out in two tranches. So we'll get half this year and half next year.
 that funding will be used, as City Manager said, to offset revenue loss that we've experienced. And again, we need guidance to know what is that calculation going to look like. It's a comparison of our fiscal year 19 budget to the fiscal year 20 budget. We don't know yet, so we just need to get that clarified as well. We know there's a revenue loss. We just don't know what that exact amount is as of right now. I have the potential to go back and look at the previous fiscal year. I'm sorry, did I... Am I losing you, Robert? No, I'm here.
 Okay. All right. Sorry. I think it's just my service. There is a potential that for the previous fiscal year that you all will be looking at revenue loss for the previous fiscal year during the pandemic, which would be from March of 2020 to August of 2020. Yes. And so the way we believe it's going to happen is that it's going to compare the FY 2019 actuals to your
 FY 2020 act was, which is when the pandemic hit was in 2020. We believe that's how the calculation is going to be. But until again, we see that in writing. I mean, we don't want to assume what the Treasury Department is going to put out, but that's what we believe. And so one of the questions is, are we going to be able to use that money? Once we identify what that amount is, use it however we choose. We don't, again, we don't know the answer to that. So there's about a five or six page document that was put together by the,
 A lot of the individuals who participate in the GFOA, they do a weekly call, which is really great because it gives the opportunity for everybody to express their concerns and things they want to get clarified. And so they took all that information from all of the different associations nationally, all of their members. They submitted that to the Treasury Department. The Treasury Department actually appreciates it because it's like a survey for them because they're getting the direct feedback from the people who are going to be spending this money. And so it's beneficial for both.
 But until we get it, I mean, we really can't tell you exactly how those funds can be used. COVID responses, yes. And one of the things they have in there, though, is about that covered period. We have spent about $6 million of city funds on all of the different things we're doing from the COVID side. So, yes, I got my fingers crossed that we're going to be able to reimburse ourselves because that's – especially if it takes another two months to actually receive the funds, that's going to be another $5 million that we're going to have to invest.
 Fortunately for us though is we've had the plan in place to utilize budget stabilization fund if we need it. I told you all that we're going to utilize general fund savings first and we've been able to do so because we did charge as much as we could from public safety to the CARES Act last year and public health to the CARES Act last year. So that generated savings on the general fund side and as well on the public on the quite a lot of life services. So we anticipated opening those up sooner unfortunately didn't happen so we have recognized some savings from there as well
 which has really allowed us to be able to utilize all of those savings to be able to do this response. So, again, really putting us in a really strong financial position, not only for this year, but really setting up really nicely for next year, being able to really leverage that American Rescue Plan funding to put us in a much stronger position, not only for, and I keep saying this because we really all need to think like this, not only for this coming year, but really long term. And so looking three, four, five years down the road, continue to build upon what we've been able to do over the last five plus years.
 So in the first quarter since we have not had any federal support for the first quarter of this calendar year, we've spent approximately six million dollars. Is that what I'm understanding? Yes ma'am. Okay and those six million dollars are currently the expenses are not being reported in any of the presentations related to pandemic cost. Yes they are. So they're included in the slide that I showed on the expenses.
 So anything we spent on city funds? Yes, ma'am. They're included. Okay. Okay. So that I think that's where I would like to see a carve out in future presentations. Mr. Cortina, if we can start to differentiate what our general fund expenses are as relates to the pandemic response.
 And then, and it's just, it's easier for me to talk about that with my constituents so I can, so then I can say, yes, these are our, these are our tax dollars, these are our revenues that we're using for the pandemic related issues.
 for the pandemic related response. And as a consequence, there's going to be some, some cutbacks or some other difficult decisions that we have to make in the budget. I'm just not able to demonstrate that in the presentations at this time. It's only due, it's only with, you know, the conversation with added questions. So if we can, if we can start pulling that aside, my other concern based on some of the comments you made, Mr. Cortina's is the, the revenue loss.
 I feel like our workforce and our services have sacrificed so much so that we can cut back, so that we can see true savings.
 We talk a lot about, well, where are we going to use those savings and re-divert those savings? And I think that's where my ideology and my methodology will differ from some of the statements that you mentioned about, like, hey, how can we recoup those costs that we lost? Well, in my opinion, we've already lost so much. We've, you know, loss of life, loss of services, and, of course, financial losses.
 within the city, I don't necessarily want to emphasize that the funds have to be directly used for revenue laws, but rather used for other impactful things in our community.
 And so I wanted to position that conversation to say, let's not look at how we're going to repay ourselves back, but rather how we can re-divert those funds for more critical service in the city. And I know there's got to be a balance. I get that. I just don't want to have a strong emphasis on trying to recoup costs.
 other than the pandemic related costs, you know, that we're, that we, the 6 million that you've talked about, of course, we need to repay ourselves for those current costs that we're talking about. But previous losses, I don't necessarily feel like. I mean, that was last year, and we have the CARES Act funding that supported us, and we've already, we already have savings, so let's re-divert those savings. Representative Hernandez, just real quick, please.
 That's not quite exactly what he's saying or what we're representing. Okay. Whenever you repay yourself, as you put it, for revenues lost, that's money now that we're going to have that we can then justify it
 to the Treasury Department that we're due those dollars. Once we have those dollars, we can then spend them for different projects that we weren't able to do before or different operations that we weren't able to do before. So I want to make sure you understand that because I think we absolutely have to do that.
 so that we get the money back so that we can pay for operations that we didn't undertake. Again, because of COVID, I think that there's been, you know, we're focusing on dollars, which we should right now, but all these decisions were made back in March of 2020 because of the health pandemic.
 It wasn't primarily just a money thing where we're gonna cut, cut, cut, cut. It was a thing that we weren't gonna provide these services so we couldn't keep them open. So we made the decision and then the council supported it that if we're not gonna provide the service, we're not gonna pay for it so then that can put us in a better position financially. Now it has done that, I know it hasn't been easy,
 But I just wanted to be clear because when we go back and then justify the federal government that we do want to make up that revenue loss, I don't want you to say we didn't listen to you because I'm listening to what you're saying. But I hope you listen to what I'm saying. We need to recover those revenues lost because then we have the money and then we can use it for programming. So I just wanted to be clear about that. I hope that was clear.
 Yeah, no, I mean, again, it's hard to follow when we're having a conversation, which is why I would like to see a more aggressive mapping of where the federal dollars are, the city's contribution, the general funds contribution. And then that way we can, you know, feel more comfortable with the decisions, of course, with the new funding that we're going to get.
 But the other thing I wanted to mention, I just wanted to kind of talk about that because we're getting close where we're going to start getting the allocations and we're going to get the information from the Treasury Department where we're going to have to move quickly. We have to start planning for that. But I'm sure you all are on top of it.
 The other thing, Mr. Curtis, as part of your presentation is the emphasis on no new tax rate, no new increase in the tax rate, of course. And so to maintain the current tax rate, I just want to say that I'm supportive of that. I think that that rate, even though that rate that we adopted last fiscal year or the current fiscal year that we're in,
 When we adopted that, it was under the assumption of drastic cuts, right? And so you showed the forecast of a 35% phased in and then the 65% phased in. I'm not sure if you're referring to the number of services that are opening or opening all the services.
 Can you just explain what the 35% phased in means? Is it just 35% of our public facilities opening? No, so it's a rounded number. It's something that we use sort of as a base. Tracy Drone presented that in pretty lengthy detail on February the 15th with the Quad of Lives section and that CFT presentation.
 So we can go back and send you that, or, I mean, that's a good reference. No, no, no. I'm trying to understand, as part of the upcoming budget year, the 35% phase in, does that mean that we're at an occupancy of 35%? Are we looking at just opening our public facilities at 35%?
 What is it? I don't want to see the whole presentation again. It's just a simple question. It means that we're not going to open every facility that we have related to quality of life. Is what that means. Okay. So it's all of our quality of life. Does that also include administrative offices, other services, critical services like public health department, like municipal services?
 The 35% also means that we're not going to fund every one of the non-essential vacant positions that was unfunded. Okay, so that's what – And so what we're going to do is we're going to have to prioritize, and we're going to have to do it incrementally over the next couple of years because we just can't afford it. I didn't include the slide, but if we do 100% of everything, we end up with a $22 million gap for next year.
 Okay, I do want to express my concern about...
 not going back to 100% also has to do with the fact that we're not fully vaccinated at herd immunity. And so, as I've said before, so I want y'all to hear me say that again. I want the public to hear me say that again. That's what's driving our decisions. Now, we did say, I said it several times when we talked about these costs, that if we go to 100%, it'll cost X. And he showed you that graph. And we've shown costs associated with the pandemic itself. But to your point, I mean, it's a good point in that we need to...
 do that again and segregate it more precisely so that there's no question at all but i know we've we've presented that in the past but but maybe not as specifically as you might have liked i have that slide let me bring it up i have the slide that shows what we spent so this is from the not this is from the cft presentation not yesterday but the one two weeks ago and so this is money that we spent from the city this is city cost so it was 4.3 million actually spent another 2 million roughly encumbered
 So almost 6.3 million. And again, this was over two weeks ago. This is about two and a half weeks ago. So on average, we're estimating, and what we've seen so far, is about $2.5 million a month. And so depending upon when we get the allocation from the federal government, hopefully we get it in April. If we don't get it until May, we're looking at another two and a half months. So we're looking at another roughly $6 million plus.
 DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Okay. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Cortina. Like I had mentioned I had missed missed the presentations and I'm sorry to bring it back up again. So I do want to say that I think 35 percent
 that would last from September of 2021 up until August of 2022. 35% of our services for that year, I would anticipate more El Pasoans to be vaccinated based on the aggressive plan that's been laid out by the administration.
 And I don't think that's high enough is what I'm saying. I'm challenging you all to explore what more we can include in this upcoming budget because 35% of our services for the next fiscal year is going to be very difficult.
 from the service perspective to our constituents. They're going to want more, and there's a lot of fatigue from the pandemic, and so I just want to be cognizant that I just don't think that that's high enough and share that with you. But those are my remarks, and I just wanted to share that.
 That's good feedback. And what I will tell you, that's the reason why we want to be as aggressive as we can be with the 159 for operations. So I knew you were going to say that, Tommy. Well, I mean, we've got two pressure points. We've got to want the tax rate to increase. We just got a presentation on parks. And I didn't go into my whole neglect story that I that I say over and over about the parks, the library, the parks.
 the streets the police have been neglected for almost two decades. So I didn't go into that speech, but the point is that if you say no tax rate increase, but we want, want, want, want, want in all these different areas, we want hay in all these different departments, you can't have both. There has to be some kind of balancing act. And I would just tell you that 159 is set up, it was supposed to be set up,
 whenever you heard all the national presentations for our operations and our revenue, if we're able to use the majority of that for that purpose, I think we'll be able to get to everyone's priorities. But I don't want to promise anything until we really get a response from the Treasury Department. But I also don't want you, please, to handcuff us. But while I want you doing this, I want you doing that with the revenues.
 Because if you want the services to open up more and you want this flexibility and you want these different kinds of things and you also want the tax rate to stay the same, we need some latitude in order to make that happen. So I would just ask you, as you have done before, tell us what you want. We'll go work on it and we'll come back and try to wow you.
 Thank you. Thank you Representative Merritt. I'm sorry. And on this great dialogue, I appreciate the dialogue. And Mr. Gonzalez, thank you for I know that's very important to the taxpayers and myself and everyone else in this community
 to hold the line on taxes. So thank you for that comment and your presentation, Mr. Fortinas, I think it's important for our community. But again, Ms. Fernandez, thank you. It was great dialogue and I appreciate that. With that, we have Representative Mayor Potan, Mr. Fortin. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you, Robert, for the presentation. Don't really have much more to add.
 I think that Representative Hernandez is spot on. My sentiments sort of echo hers. I think that we need to be aware of the tax, what our tax rate is going to be this year. I also think too that looking at that 35% is probably going to be something, obviously we need to be following the science and the concerns with data and where we are in terms of our vaccinations.
 and our rates. But I think that that might have to be something that we look at a little bit more to increase. And I think that we need to be creative in looking at other ways. Maybe we are a little bit different in our in our capital, our capital improvement rollout, maybe a little bit less aggressive. I'm not really sure that is totally within y'all's purview to sort of look at what what makes the most sense.
 But I have a feeling that the 35% might be a little bit difficult. We're already hearing emails about senior centers not reopening as part of this sort of quality life phase. And I understand this is the first time.
 that we've really engaged our quality of life portfolio in the last year for reopening. But that I think is just sort of a sentiment that we're probably going to hear more and more of as the months go on and our next next budget year goes ahead. But I think that Representative Hernandez and what she brought up is spot on in terms of thinking about this.
 Thinking how we can hold the line, but also be creative and look at having some of those facilities open up in a responsible way that follows the science and data. And I know that this task is not an easy one, but I also have full confidence with the organization and leadership as well to think outside the box and think creatively and to execute. So thank you again for all the hard work that y'all are doing.
 One of the things we've been talking over with staff is different, creative, innovative ways to incentivize.
 some folks that when you get you know let's say we get all this vaccine like like it's been reported uh the mayor mentioned that in that rockefeller report he did and how the cdc it commented that we might get more vaccine that we can do with uh within the next 30 days let's say we were to get that some of the things that we've already asked staff to look at is how can we be uh
 incentivizing people to get a vaccine, like to y'all's point about senior centers. You come to a senior center, you're not vaccinated. We want to get you vaccinated. Maybe that's a great way to get them vaccinated and open up a senior center at the same time. So we're looking at things like that.
 But in terms of the 35%, we're gonna have to go back and look at how the numbers work in order to see if we can go any higher than that. I had mentioned to the council before that the recommendation was gonna be 35, 40%, and that if we went higher, that'd be based on council feedback. So that still holds true. So we're getting that feedback now. We've given you all this information. The reason why we constantly talk budget at every council meeting is it's a lot of data. And by the time we get to the budget season, you will have already heard it all. You will have already asked a lot of these questions.
 and we can get through the budget quicker by getting y'all's priorities and y'all feeling comfortable about the things you've asked for getting done. This year is no different. We're going to do the same thing. So based on this feedback, we're going to go back and look at it some more and look at how we can make any adjustments based on y'all's collective feedback. Thank you again, Mr. Gonzalez, Mr. Cortines, and Representative Hernandez. Great job. And...
 Mayor Pro Tem, Schwartzbein, thank you. And with that, Ms. Prine, do we have a call to the public? Yes, sir.
 We can now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening we have one member of the public that signed up to speak, Mr. Daniel Labrado. His topic is Climate Action Plan. Good evening, Mr. Labrado. Star 6.
 To unmute your telephone, please. Good evening. Mr. Labrado, star six will unmute your telephone. Mr. Labrado, star six, please. Is he in the queue, Ms. Brown? Yes, Mr. Labrado is in the queue. I see his microphone, however, it's on mute. Star six will unmute the microphone. Mr. Daniel Labrado. Mr. Labrado, if you can hear me, sir? I'm sorry, he just dropped off. He dropped off the queue.
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. If he's able to get back on, will you please let us know? Yes, sir, I sure will. We'll continue with the agenda. Yes, sir. We'll continue with item number six. I'm sorry, with item number 18. This is a presentation and discussion on capital improvement quarterly update for active rescheduled and completed capital projects. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. This is Jerry DeMuro with the Capital Improvement Department. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. Is that...
 Is that him? Yes, Mr. Labrado is in the queue. He's unmuted. Hello? Speak, please. Yes, good evening, Mr. Labrado. Mr. Labrado. You have three minutes, sir. You have three minutes. You're back on mute, sir. Star six. Good evening, sir. Good evening, sir. Hi, can you guys hear me? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right, sorry. I was having trouble with the phone.
 But I was wondering if you guys would be able to pass a climate action plan to make the Houston climate action plan that they passed. Because I know in 2017 of July, the city council drafted a resolution to support a plan.
 the Paris climate agreement. Well, DeMarco approved it specifically to be part of the mayor's climate action agenda, and I haven't really seen anything that's been done. And the average temperature in Los Angeles has risen about 4.3% since it's been...
 scaled and then our emissions have most likely grown even though a survey needs to be done in order to see how much our emissions have grown and now is the time to act because the Biden administration is all for environmental sustainability and Veronica Escobar as you know has created that climate crisis advisory committee so now would be a time to research, draft, and implement an action plan for the city, one that's
 specific to our needs, specifically drought, our transportation issues, to try to move our fleet to electric vehicles, and of course urban sprawl, which is enroaching on the desert and mountain environment in our region, which is not only bad for the environment,
 It can also increase the chances of diseases being spread to humans and our pets. Mr. Labrado, we're getting some feedback. Perhaps you have two active devices. Can you mute one of them, please? Pardon me? It sounds like you have two active devices on and we're getting feedback. Okay.
 Oh man, oh man. If you can mute one of the devices and speak on the other one, it will reduce the background and the echo that we're hearing. Yeah, I'm not too sure what's going on because I just have one phone and it's just showing me one call and I don't know if something happened during when you guys were trying to mute me and maybe it created a weird circuit.
 did i just hear the echo as well okay go ahead sir go ahead sir
 All right, sorry about that. Sorry about that. Well, I was just talking about how there was a recent hemorrhaging disease among the rabbit population, which caused a bunch of the jackrabbits to die in the outskirts of El Paso, and the coyotes were beating on this, and so they started entering our urban environment. But I have a question. What if those coyotes had picked up the disease, and then what if that disease had gone over the dog? So it's a question.
 kind of imperative that we protect our environment and um
 the remaining resources we have. So if you act now, we're about to be on the forefront of a new sustainable economic development. And just remember if our environment collapses, how will humanity survive? And will we wanna survive in a world with a collapsed environment? And I guess that's all for my speech. I'm sorry if you guys can't hear me properly in the echo. And thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. That does consent to the public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public
 to active rescheduled and completed capital projects. Ms. Pratt, we still have the feedback. Is that going real bad? Will everyone make sure you're on mute? Still on there? Yeah, see, we're still getting that feedback. IT is currently troubleshooting. Troubleshooting. Testing one, two, three. Okay, I think we're good now, Mayor.
 We can continue with item 18. Mr. DeMuro? Hello? I think it's gone. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. If we can proceed now. Thank you, Mr. Karn. Thank you, Mr. Karn. Good evening again, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DeMuro with the Capital Improvement Department. I'm going to present a second quarter update for our capital programs. We'll talk about the year-to-date results, recent project developments, and upcoming project developments. Results. We always look at the amount of funds we have in requisitions, encumbrances, and the amount
 And as you can see, we are trending less than last year and the year before. But the good thing is we have a number of encumbrances in FY 2020 that we are spending down. These are the expenditures. We're about a third of where we were last year. Again, payments are being made and much is being accomplished. Since FY18, we've expended $410 plus million dollars. Sorry. IT is working on bringing up the presentation. I have the presentation.
 When we look at spending, we look in terms of the impact on the economy. Impacts for spending for the second quarter were 54.4 million. That's approximately $27 million in labor costs. That's each $500,000 expended is in labor. Jerry, I think IT's sharing their presentations. If you can follow the screen on the Jerry, IT's sharing. If you can forward to slide, several slides.
 This is the total jobs supported from capital projects since September 2011 through February 21, 35,000. And you can see we have half the jobs supported by the CIP in FY21 as we did in FY20. Next slide, please. Next slide, please. IT.
 Thank you. In addition to direct jobs through construction, there are also a number of indirect and induced jobs as a result of the construction impact. Our spending impact in 2020 was 32.6 million in indirect and induced jobs, and the employment impact accounts to 2,000 additional jobs on top of the 4,000 direct jobs in construction. Next slide, please.
 As you know, when we entered the pandemic, we responded by suspending some projects or completing projects through design and then awaiting for construction to start in the future. Next slide, please. So for the second quarter update, we finished in FY21 47 projects to date. And I should mention the detail on the projects that are completed is in your package after the thank you slide.
 On February 15th, we presented a resolution for proposed issuance of $140 million in debt, which allows us to reactivate 37 projects. Our NIP program remains in progress. Our park equipment remains in progress. Our fire station assessments have been completed and we're initiating the designs for five renovation of facilities and our COVID facilities are complete with the exception of the lab and logistics center, which should be completed by the end of April. Next slide, please.
 Second quarter developments. Next slide, please. From December through February 21, we had in February 21, 42 projects in pre-design, 64 in design, 52 in bidding, 59 in construction for a total of 217 projects at $686 million. Again, the detail for the projects that are within these stages are in the slides after the thank you slide. Next slide, please.
 Future years program projects. These are projects that we had initially suspended due to the pandemic. So we are reprogramming them. 35 are in pre-design, 30 are in design, 15 are in bidding, and one is in construction. Next slide, please. Pre-design, we started one new project. We reactivated 14 projects that have been suspended. We advanced one to bidding, and we have activated 26 future program projects. Next slide, please.
 Design, we have four new projects in design, eight projects reactivated, three advanced to construction, and 22 for future programming. Next slide, please. Some of the projects that this El Paso Children's Museum broke ground over the last quarter, these are renderings of the nighttime view, the daytime view, as well as exhibits that are planned for the Children's Museum. Next slide, please.
 We are nearing completion of the design for the Mexican American Cultural Center. Here's some renderings of the center as they currently exist. Next slide please. Fire Station 36, one of the first projects for the Public Safety Bond, is also nearing completion of design. We hope to go into construction later this fall. Next slide please.
 Eastside Regional Command Center is another project from the Public Safety Bond that advanced into design. We're at 60% design on this project as well, and this is a rendering of the Command Center. Next slide. Bidding during the quarter, 10 advanced to bidding, 15 were reactivated, and 5 advanced to construction. Next slide.
 We are beginning the renovations of the libraries. Doris Van Doren Library will be renovated following the renovation of the Westside Library. And currently the, next slide please, Esperanza Moreno, Jose Cisneros, and Clardy Fox are in construction. Jose Cisneros will add a computer lab, and Esperanza Moreno is more roof as well as exterior improvements and noise abatement.
 From December 20 to February 21, we advanced eight to construction, four projects in the construction phase, and completed 33. Next slide, please. Some of the projects that are underway and will be completed this summer, the Pelicano Railroad and Cotton Lighting and Landscape projects. That included roadway lighting, median landscape, roadway lighting, and dark sky compliant.
 And you'll see by some of these photos, railroad took on the theme of the railroad, Pelicano, the stone wall down the median, and then cotton is traditionally what we have done in other parts of the city. Next slide. We are completing lighting and landscaping in Yarborough South, George Dieter and Le Treveño roadway, lighting and median, that'll be completed this summer as well. Next slide, please. These are the projects that we have completed in the second quarter. Next slide, please.
 IT, we need sound. And this is a video of some of the accomplishments in the second quarter. Next slide, please. These are some of our upcoming developments. Next slide, please. So between March and May of this year, we expect 15 projects to start design. 37 will go into bid. 24 are anticipated to start construction. And 25 will be completed. Next slide. These are the projects that are expected to go into design. Next slide, please.
 These are the projects that are anticipated to go to bid. Next slide, please. And these are the projects that are anticipated to start construction. Next slide, please. This is a rendering of improvements that are gonna be done at Modesto Gomez Park. If you recall, this park is built on a landfill. We've had a significant settlement, and so we're taking out one athletic field that had the most settlement and actually creating a desert garden where people can walk through and enjoy the desert landscape. Next slide, please.
 These are projects that are scheduled to be completed. Next slide. And that's my presentation. Does anybody have any questions? No, sir. Thank you very much for your presentation. Very in-depth. Thank you, Mayor. Oh, no, we do have Representative Anello. Please. Hi, Jerry. Sorry, can you go back to the – you went through them very quickly, the slides that are about to start construction? IT, I think, was further down in the presentation. Yeah, it was like second to last. It's like the second to last slide. Go the other way.
 Thank you. I think you passed where we were. You need to go two slides up from the thank you slide, please. Yeah, it's okay, Jared. I'll just take a look at the back up and send you an email, okay? Thank you. Thank you, Representative. Thank you, Representative Nello. And again, thank you very much for the presentation. With that, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor, we now turn to page six. We're on the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 25.
 Mayor this is Laura Cruz Acosta. IT is addressing Ms. Prine's computer. We're having a little bit of trouble with the computer that Ms. Prine is using. So if we could go on to the next. Okay. We're on. I hope you can hear me now. Yes ma'am. Thank you. Yeah we can hear you Ms. Prine. Thank you. We're on page six on the first reading of ordinances. Thank you Ms. Cruz. These are items 19 to 25. May we have a motion? Motion to approve. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Second. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 25. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Representative Anelo? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? Oh, sorry. Rodriguez? I'm sorry. You're on mute. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Thank you. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 We now turn to page number nine. The next item is number 26. This is discussion and action on the request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue a purchase order to Mitchell Adding Machine Company, Inc., DBA Mitchell Time and Parking, the sole source authorized provider for maintenance of M&O McGann parking system. Move to approve. Second. Can we get a presentation of any chance? There's no presentation. There's no presentation? No, sir.
 Thank you. There's a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardo. Aye. The motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 27. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2020-512R, multi-user flight information display system and public address system to CETA Information Networking Computing USA Inc. Move to approve. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthy. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar.
 Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizaga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 11, item number 28. This is discussion and action on the award of solicitation number 2020-768R, workers' compensation third party administrator to CAS Claims Administrative Services Inc. I'd like Representative Lizaga, please.
 Thank you, Mayor Lee, sir. I would like to make a motion to postpone this item for two weeks. We've gotten a late flurry of emails from police officers, and I would like to postpone in order to make sure we're able to properly hear their input before coming to decision. Second. There's a motion and a second to postpone the item for two weeks. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsway. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Aye.
 Mayor, I'm sorry. I was trying to send you a message. I have a question. Are we allowed to have a discussion right now since there's already a motion and a second? Yes, you can. Go ahead. Oh, I just, I just, I'm not sure Representative Lizarraga if I may address you if this is the item that they're concerned about? Yes, yes, because we're changing the provider from Prudential.
 Yeah, from my understanding, this is workers' compensation and not the deferred compensation. So there are two different solicitations. I believe this isn't the correct one that they're referring to. But I may be wrong. I just wanted to – I don't want to delay this if it wasn't the same one. No, Rep. Fernandez. If you don't mind me interrupting, no, Rep. Fernandez and the side of the guy. I postponed it for two weeks, so it will be on the 13th of April.
 This is not the same one, to answer your question. Mayor and members of council, this is Bruce Collins, purchasing director. This is, we are not recommending to change providers on this item. The item that is in question is the 457 award, which will be brought forth to city council on April 23rd. This is not that item. Okay, then I withdraw my motion. Thank you. Same here, oh, sorry.
 Move to approve then. Second. Thank you Representative Hernandez, Representative Estrada. Okay, so this motion is to approve. There's a motion and a second to approve. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Yes. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye.
 And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 29. Council, Laura, can I make a quick comment? Members of the council, just for your information as well, on that 457 and 401A solicitation, that item is in the court of silence. There should not be any discussion between the members of council and anybody related to that item until that item is posted on the agenda for award. So I wanted to make sure you're all aware of that.
 Thank you. Is it I'm sorry I was under the impression that the cone of silence already ended the day that it was posted on the agenda. Can you clarify. So I'll let legal or Bruce Collins chime in but there was a protest on that item that the city had to respond to. And since there was a protest that item continued to be in the cone of silence. So representative mayor and council Mr. Cortinas is correct. Once the item was withdrawn and deleted.
 from the agenda, the cone of silence went back into effect. And so this, the item that's being referenced, the 457 award is still under the cone of silence. Okay, great. Thank you for the clarification. Thank you. If we continue, yes. Thank you for the clarification, Ms. Cortinas.
 Thank you. Item number 29 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale, special warranty deed, and any other documents necessary to convey .2796 acres of land to SNAP partners, LP. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 29. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby. Yeah. Representative Anelo Hernandez. Yes. Thank you.
 Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale, special warranty deed, and any other documents necessary to convey 1.1921 acres of land to Jorge Sánchez. Who to approve? Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 30. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Aye. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arana.
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 31. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the city of Paso to the state of Texas, such property located at the intersection of Dyer Street and State Loop 375. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 31. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Yep. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Aye.
 Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 32. This is discussion and action that the City Manager is hereby authorized to sign a First Amendment to a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Full Beauty Brands, LLC. Motion to approve. Second.
 I'm sorry did I get the chair of all your questions answered? I did and could we have the presentation for this item? This is Denise Carter with Economic Development. Item 32 is a request to approve a First Amendment to the Chapter 380 agreement with Full Beauty Brands. You saw this item in executive session a few weeks ago. If we can please go to the next slide.
 Here's the brief overview on the Chapter 380 agreement. This agreement was executed in October of 2017. Its purpose was to retain 525 full-time employment positions. Applicant was eligible for six annual payments. The annual grant amount that the applicant could request over the life of the agreement was $1.5 million, capped at $250,000 annually.
 The rebate would be calculated as $1,250 per employee that was earning a minimum of $1,270 per hour. Another requirement listed in this 380 agreement is that El Paso must continue as place of business for all Texas sales during the agreement term.
 Now, what does that mean? Is that whenever somebody places an order, either online or via telephone, the call gets routed to the El Paso Center, which means the sale originates here in El Paso, therefore the sales taxes get collected here. I want you to keep that statement in mind as I show you the next slide. In terms of dollars prior to the city of El Paso executing the 380 agreement, we were collecting about $10,000 a year.
 Because of the 380 agreement, the City of El Paso has been able to capture a much larger sales tax collection, about 26 times more. As you can see on the graph on the screen, the blue shaded area are the dollar amounts that have been collected in new sales tax revenue. The red shaded area are the rebates that have been issued to the company.
 If I could define this agreement in one statement, it would be a sales tax revenue generator for the city of El Paso. If we can please go to the next slide. Here's the first amendment request. Company will retain 200 full-time jobs, allow two part-time positions to count towards fulfillment of one full-time position, cap that 100 part-time positions. Now, due to the pandemic,
 companies had to adapt to the new normal.
 This particular company changed their business model to provide that flexibility to their employees because of COVID. And they will continue to provide that flexibility by allowing their employees to work from home, creating their own schedules, working a minimum of 32 hours per week. Now, our department did verify that the 32 hours per week meets IRS definition of full-time employment.
 As consideration for this amendment, applicant has agreed to forego 2018 and 2019 grant payments. We will not be extending the contract. The applicant will only be able to collect four years worth of rebates and all other terms will remain the same. Staff does recommend approval and now I will open it up for any questions.
 Yeah. If I may, Mayor Leeser. Thank you, Denise. Can you go back to that last slide about the consideration? Yes, ma'am. So can you, for the benefit of the public, could you explain a little bit more about the foregoing of the 2018 and 2019 grant payments?
 Yes, ma'am. As a result of the negotiation, in order to grant the First Amendment, we spoke with the company and we had to request consideration. So the company did agree to forego the two years worth of rebates, which is the equivalent of about $500,000. So instead of them being able to collect $1.5 million, the maximum that they would be able to collect is about $1 million.
 And so how much money has the city collected? Up to date in this particular 380 agreement, we have collected $1.7 million in sales taxes.
 Okay, and then I believe that the company ended up seeing a surge in business, correct, in 2020? So how many people did they end up hiring in 2020? That is correct, and I actually wanted to introduce their director of finance, Mr. Ryan Abram. He's here with us, and I wanted him to do the introduction, and he'll be able to address some of your questions. Thank you, Denise. Hi, how are you? Good.
 Good. Thank you for being here with us. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good evening, sir. Good evening. So, yeah, just quick, I'm Ryan Abram. I'm actually the treasurer and the controller of Full Beauty Brands. I've been with the company about 24 years. I've actually been to El Paso a lot. I was going to say more times than I can count, but I was responsible for staffing the call center in my earlier years there.
 So a lot of the forecasting groups and stuff like that reported to me. So, yeah, it's been a while, though. It's probably been about seven years since I've been down there. But, yeah, I'm ready. How many people are still employed at your company? Yes, right now we have – I got that here. It's a moving target. So I just want to make sure I'm giving the latest, greatest here.
 I was wondering specifically, I believe you had a surge in business in 2020, right? And you ended up hiring people. We did. We did. Oh, yeah, so we hired 165 people last year. Wow.
 Go ahead. I'm sorry, Tinder. No, no, no, you're fine. You're fine. So, yeah, we actually, we did, we thought COVID was going to hurt us, but then when it was brick and mortar shut down and people were not willing to travel and go to stores, even when it kind of opened up a little bit, the dot-com really just exploded, really across the industry. We're definitely a benefactor of that. We plan on hiring about 122 this year. That's what our current staffing plan supports. Yeah.
 So, you know, we're definitely trying to – right now the challenge is actually getting people hired. Obviously with the stimulus money and some other, you know, just variables, unemployment being, you know, what it's at. Some people feel they can make more on unemployment. It's been a challenge to hire to our needs. But, you know, we're getting there. We actually had our first –
 It was a first for me, again, over staffing for over 10 years down there. We had 10 people that were supposed to start yesterday. They couldn't get in. They were coming from Mexico, apparently. And you have to have a paper saying you have a job. And because it was their first day, they didn't have that paper yet. So we'll get them in. But it's a small piece there. Thank you. Thank you, Ryan, for being here with us. Denise, is Eddie on the line? I believe he is.
 Yes, ma'am. I'm right here. Hi, Eddie. Yes. No, I want you to also, for the benefit of the public, explain to the public some of the considerations that companies look for when they're thinking about locating in El Paso. Definitely. You know, so this is one of the companies that, you know, we really want to work with, right?
 This is part of our business retention and expansion efforts, right? We want to be able to keep a company here, help them flourish. We understand, you know, that they hit, you know, some rough times. But at the end of the day, it's trying to help the company stay here and keep people employed. But this really helps us when we're trying to recruit companies, right? Because it goes a long way when you're trying to recruit a company and they're able to speak to a company that's here in El Paso already.
 And they can talk to the company. And then the companies that we help, you know, they demonstrate how we have a working relationship with them. We help them stay here in the El Paso area and we work with them even when the economy goes soft.
 And so that really helps us recruit companies. Sometimes companies like Full Beauty Brands can really help us go out there and recruit a company. And they're our advocates at the end of the day, right? They're our proof, right, that we really do work with companies and we keep them here.
 Thank you, Eddie. Sure. Those are all my questions, Mayor Leeser, and I fully support this item. I think, as Denise mentioned right now, that this is a sales tax revenue generator. So thank you very much. Thank you for saying this, Elga. And what Eddie was saying, it's really important that we continue to retain revenue.
 and help the businesses that have been part of our economy for a long time, so I'm thankful for
 for Economic Development Department and all the work they've done. And like I said, El Paso, it's very important, especially today, that we continue to make sure that we help the businesses that have, you know, have brick and mortar in our community and help them continue to stay here. You know, as we continue to open our economy, this is very important. So Representative Nassau, thank you very much.
 for everything you've done in economic development. And with that, I know we have a motion and a second. And Mr. Alvarez, thank you very much for being here and thank you for being part of our community. Appreciate it, thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 32. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Yep. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido?
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda. Motion to adjourn. There is a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, March 30th, 2021 is adjourned at 6.52 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Y'all have a good night. Thank you. Good night.