mr prime good morning good morning sir good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday april 9 2024. mayor leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with mayor pro tem kennedy alternate mayor prote molinar representative salsido and representative
 It is 9.03 a.m. Now will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Robert Hemhill Jr. Good morning. To the Honorable Mayor Mr. Oscar Liza, Mayor Pro Tem, Council Members, Department Heads, and Community Leaders. Let's bow our heads for the invocation. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the armless manner
 asking for your guidance, wisdom, and support as we begin the City Council meeting. We're here to discuss the topics that will benefit the citizens of our community, help us to engage in meaningful discussions, and guide us as we make appropriate decisions that are in the best interest of the citizens of El Paso, Texas. Help us to grow together as a group as we nurture the bonds of the city,
 Open our eyes to spiritual solutions and help us to continue to promote El Paso as a great city to live in. This we ask in your name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Diana, can you lead us in the pledge, please? Thank you. For the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, under God, in the name of the Father, for the liberty and justice of all. Thank you, ma'am.
 Good morning everyone and we have a full house and thank you all for being here and being interested in what happens day in and day out in our city government. We have some proclamations and I'm glad to see that everyone's here. I do want people to think of a happy moment in life. It's always good to start our day with a smile.
 and a good feeling in our hearts so we're going to have a moment of silence for something happy something that warms your heart something that makes you feel good about not only being here with us but also about yourself and i think that's really important thank you thank you and may god bless el paso may god bless america and may god bless you miss prime thank you mayor and for the record representative hernandez joined the meeting at 906 along with representative pierro
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamation. The first proclamation is Occupational Therapy Month. Good morning. Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the American Occupational Therapy Association has declared the month of April to be National Occupational Therapy Month, and whereas the American Occupational Therapy Association is celebrating its 107th year,
 and whereas the health and quality of life of the citizens of El Paso depend upon the effective use of health care resources including the important services of occupational therapists and whereas the Rio Grande District of the Texas Occupational Therapy Association is dedicated to ensuring quality of care for clients empowering clients' self-sufficiency and participating in community events promote physical and mental health awareness
 whereas the University of Texas at El Paso's Department of Occupational Therapy provides education and community-based learning experiences to students to prepare them to be competent occupation therapy practitioners that serve the people of the El Paso region now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as occupational therapy month signed Oscar Leaser honorable mayor for the city of El Paso thank you sir anyone here
 Thank you. Oh Come on up sir. You don't work alone, huh? No, sir Thank you. Thank you mayor Lee sir and members of the council Thank you to him is Mendoza for helping make this possible to faculty and students that are joining me today I'm Bill Roberts. I'm the clinical assistant professor and chair of the Department of occupational therapy at UTEP and
 and we're really here to celebrate Occupational Therapy Month, and thank you for helping us celebrate that with this proclamation. We want to celebrate Occupational Therapy Month and increase the awareness of occupational therapy in our community. The UTEP Department of Occupational Therapy has been in El Paso for about 30 years, and providing occupational therapists that meet the unique needs of our community.
 We have a new occupational therapy doctorate program at UTEP that started in 2022, so that we can continue to serve the needs of the people of El Paso. I am joined today by faculty and students to celebrate Occupational Therapy Month, including Dr. Anderson Hicks, Dr. Cecilia Fierro, students Diana Cadena, Desiree Gomez, Miguel Duran, and Joshua Gardner. And the students will talk a little bit about occupational therapy in our community. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Diana Cadena and I am a first year occupational therapy student at the University of Texas at El Paso. I'm sure some of you are still wondering what occupational therapy is. Occupational therapy empowers individuals to do the things they need and want to do. For example, something as simple as brushing your teeth in the morning or participating in a city council meeting like we all here today.
 We are here because it is meaningful to us and everything we participate in throughout our lives means something uniquely to us. Getting deprived of doing the things we want to do by illness, disorders, traumatic events and many other changes impacts our well-being and quality of life. And this is where occupational therapy can help individuals overcome the barriers and challenges to get individuals back to what they want to do or incorporate new occupations that will improve their life.
 The uniqueness of occupational therapy, and also my favorite part, is a holistic approach in our practice. We do not only look at the person's diagnosis, we also look at their environment, their culture, their customs, their family dynamic, their morals, beliefs, language, their hobbies, their passions, and everything that makes them unique. Because all of these factors, as we know, impact our daily lives.
 We take their life story as a whole and help them adapt or modify what is around them and develop or recover skills to improve their quality of life. Lastly, occupational therapy extends beyond individual care. Occupational therapists work tirelessly to create community resources, advocate for the marginalized populations, and spread awareness about the importance of inclusion and accessibility.
 By addressing systemic barriers and promoting social justice, occupational therapists play a vital role in building a more equitable and inclusive community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Desiree Gomez, and I'm a first year grad student at the University of El Paso, Texas. On behalf of the UTEP Doctor of Occupational Therapy program, we thank you for having us here today. Our program focuses on promoting health, well-being, and participation in meaningful activities and occupations for all individuals.
 To facilitate what we focus on as a program, we encourage active learning and provide opportunities for students to engage in a diverse and authentic community environment. This program educates students on the importance of unity as we value and support and guide each individual towards community engagement and service learning. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Miguel Buran and I am a second year occupational therapy student at the University of Texas at El Paso and a proud member of the first doctoral class of occupational therapy at UTEP. Like my classmates have mentioned, here at UTEP we've had the opportunity to participate in various settings across El Paso. We have visited the NICU at local hospitals, having the special chance to observe premature children in real time.
 We have worked with local programs and organizations for children with Down Syndrome, such as the Joyful Dance program at UTEP, and Every Little Blessing Preschool. In our community engagement courses, we have partnered with local and national programs, such as H2F, working with Fort Bliss to find ways to better serve our active military.
 We've worked with Gigi's Playhouse, where we've had the pleasure of cooking and practicing safe meal preparation with adults with Down syndrome. And the Philosophic Systems Institute, where we have created and ran activities for mothers and children in a local housing community. And we've also had the unique opportunity to work with patients across the border in our sister city of Juarez, alongside the Fundación Integra.
 In all of these experiences, we have been truly blessed to work with amazing people in our community, in a variety of settings and age groups, from premature children to older adults. And through all of these sleepless study nights and these experiences, we have been transforming day by day into the future occupational therapists of tomorrow. Occupational therapists who will be equipped to meet the specific needs of this beautiful community.
 I also wanted to thank the city of El Paso and Mayor Oscar Leaser for allowing us to speak on this amazing profession. And of course, I want to thank our UTEP faculty and staff for their tireless effort and all that they do. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning, sir. Good morning, members of the council. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Joshua Gardner, and I'm a second-year student at UTEP Occupational Therapy Program.
 I want to talk to you today about OT and how beneficial it can be. For me, OT was a life changer. OT is able to help people in all aspects of their life. In OT, we don't look at the people just as how we can fix them, as if they are broken. We want to help them and be able to do what they can do, what they need to do, and what they want to do, what makes them happy. We look at the people in a whole picture.
 We just, not just what's wrong with them, I personally have had many different jobs. Growing up in a small town in Georgia, I worked on farms, I've done construction, and I ended up joining the military as a truck driver, and then as a nurse. I was medically retired due to injuries during deployment, and due to those injuries, I've had to see both physical and occupational therapy.
 My mindset throughout all of these work experiences has changed, and I have grown through my experiences and through my experiences in occupational therapy. Thinking back, I would have never gone to OT when I was working construction. I had no idea what it was, and I did not see any use in it. But now, after receiving services and going through UTEP's OT program, I see the huge benefit and impact that it can have in a person's life.
 Because of my life experiences and what I've learned in school, I feel that I am well suited to advocate for the profession and can share how it can truly change a person's life. Thank you all for the opportunity to thank you for your time and the opportunity to be here today. Thank you. Thank you all for being here and congratulations on the profession you've picked. Thank you.
 Ms. Prine? For the record, Representative Acevedo joined the meeting at 9.08 AM. The next proclamation is Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Representative Hernandez? Good morning, thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor. The proclamation for the city of El Paso, whereas sexual assault is a serious crime that affects millions of people every year, regardless of age, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic background.
 And whereas sexual assault can have devastating physical and emotional consequences for survivors, and survivors often face stigma and shame when they come forward, and whereas it is critical to raise awareness about sexual assault, support survivors, and prevent future assaults,
 And RAS, the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence, is dedicated to providing support and advocacy for survivors of sexual assault, promoting prevention education, and working to create a safer community. And RAS, this year's theme, I Believe You, emphasizes the importance of creating a supportive environment for survivors. By believing them initially, it validates their experience and encourages them to seek help. And RAS...
 CASFV encourages all residents of El Paso to educate themselves about sexual assault and its impact, learn about bystander intervention and how to prevent sexual violence,
 show support for survivors by wearing teal, the color associated with sexual assault awareness, and participating in awareness events, believe survivors when they come forward, and whereas we encourage all El Pasoans to join advocates and communities across the country in taking action to prevent sexual violence by empowering individuals to engage in sexual assault prevention efforts and ensure the next generation fosters attitudes that promote equality and respect.
 and the Sexual Assault Awareness Month signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, representatives. It's a pleasure to be here with you all. I'm Senator Nevada Scorsese. I'm the Executive Director for the Center. And as we said, our theme is I Believe You. And so a couple of things happen when we believe survivors in our community. It supports healing. It validates their experiences.
 and helps them to begin the healing process. Feeling disbelief can oftentimes incredibly, oftentimes create isolating and re-traumatizing behavior. It also, when we believe our survivors, it increases reporting. Most sexual assaults go unreported. If survivors are believed, they will be met with support, and without doubt, they're more likely to come forward. This allows investigations, potential justice, and prevents future sexual assaults.
 When survivors are believed, it breaks their silence. We send the message that the sexual assault is not tolerated. It reduces stigma and encourages others to speak up. When we believe our survivors, it empowers them. It allows them to take back control of their narrative and their life. It shows them that they are not alone and they can rebuild a sense of safety. And when we believe our survivors, we hold perpetrators accountable.
 It creates a space of investigation and potential holding perpetrators accountable for their actions and it can also deter future assaults and promote justice. Oftentimes I think we think as a community that those are situations that happen in other places right now in El Paso. Unfortunately it does. And so this past fiscal year we accompanied 341 individuals to the hospital. Reminding you that most of them do not report. These are the individuals that felt able enough to go to the hospital and seek some sort of assistance.
 In our non-residential program, we also assisted another 616 individual clients for individual services. So one of the things that we did as our local rape crisis center that we took on that service back in 2015, we made a commitment not only to do the hospital accompaniment and provide services for these survivors, but also to enhance the service for our community. And so we included lodging. And so this past fiscal year, we also provided lodging.
 for 616 individuals as well. And so the importance of the month is obviously to create conversation. We have Denim Day coming up April 24th,
 that we'd love for you all to participate, send pictures, tag us on our social media. You can follow us on our social media for additional events. We'll have various lives for the community providing information and awareness. And so, again, we're just honored to be here with you this morning and for recognizing the month as Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 and if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers city council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed the next proclamation is national public safety telecommunicators week absolutely thank you mayor good morning everyone
 Approximation from the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso, Texas recognizes the professionalism, excellence, and dedication of public safety telecommunicators who answer 911 calls daily, and whereas public safety telecommunicators are the first responders providing the initial and most critical contact our community has with emergency services.
 And, whereas public safety telecommunicators are essential to the safety of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics by monitoring their activity via radio, providing them critical information and ensuring their safety. And, whereas public safety telecommunicators promote the swift response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics to protect life, liberty,
 and preservation of property. And whereas the city of El Paso, Texas is committed to providing the highest level of emergency communication services to the citizens in our community. And whereas each public safety telecommunicator exhibits kindness, compassion, and understanding to citizens seeking assistance.
 Whereas we honor the men and women whose tireless effort, professional demeanor, and concern keep our community and citizens safe. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the week of April 15th through April 19th, 2024, shall be known as National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week, signed by the Honorable Mayor, Oscar Leeser.
 I saw you looking back. You wanted to make sure they came with you, huh? Yes. Thank you. Good morning, and I'm very honored to be standing before you. I'm honored to be standing here to represent the remarkable telecommunicators who tirelessly work hard behind the scenes, often unseen and unheard, yet playing a pivotal role in ensuring the safety and security of our communities. Thank you.
 This week is a time to honor and recognize the dedication, resilience, and unwavering commitment of those who serve as the first point of contact in times of crisis. They are the calm voices in the chaos, the lifeline for those in distress, and the unsung heroes of emergency response. With their unwavering dedication, telecommunicators fearlessly navigate challenging situations daily, providing critical assistance and support to those in need.
 They selflessly guide callers through medical emergencies, fires, accidents, moments of sheer panic, offering reassurance and guidance until help arrives. Their work is demanding and often stressful, yet they persevere with professionalism and compassion. They are the silent guardians who ensure that every call is answered, every distress signal is heard, and every emergency is responded to promptly and effectively. But their impact extends far beyond the calls they answer.
 They are the backbone of our emergency response system. Their collaboration with law enforcement, fire departments, medical personnel and other agencies is a testament to the strength of their teamwork, coordinating resources and dispensing assistance where it's most needed. Today as we honor Teller Communicators Week, let us express our gratitude for their service and reaffirm our commitment to supporting them. Let us recognize the importance of their work and daily sacrifice to keep our community
 I appreciate all telecommunicators' dedication, courage, and unwavering commitment to serving others. I am proud to be a part of this amazing team. You are the true heroes, and your contributions do not go unnoticed. Thank you. Thank you.
 And thank you for everything y'all do and I know chief is coming up because it's I mean if you stand and look behind you You have a great support cast but without you all they couldn't do their job and the accuracy and the timing is so important as you were talking about and I thank you for being here to chief. I
 Good morning, Mayor and Council, Chief Killings, El Paso Fire Department. I just wanted to come up and take a moment to express the gratitude on behalf of the men and women of the El Paso Fire Department for our telecommunicators. As you heard, the long hours of dedication that these men and women provide to our community, I mean, their actions directly save lives.
 They answer not only 911 calls for our community, but they also take care of our firefighters and our police officers that are out there every day in the field. And they are the backbone of the 911 system and the emergency response system for this community. And we wouldn't be able to do what we do without them. So, yes, this is a great thing, and I really appreciate them and the hard work that they do. Thank you, Chief. Thank you all.
 For the record, Representative Canales arrived at 925 a.m. The next proclamation is Patty Diaz Day. Representative Salgado. Thank you, Mayor. I have the honor of reading this proclamation of the legendary Patty Diaz, who I've been listening to since I was a kid, literally. And so I'll just get down and read it.
 Whereas Patty Diaz has dedicated 30 remarkable years to radio broadcasting, touching the lives of countless individuals in El Paso and beyond with her unwavering dedication, passion, voice. And whereas Patty began her illustrious career at Power 102 in 1992, eventually becoming the co-host of the Power 102 Morning Show with Patty Diaz and Mike D, a program that has become a staple of morning radio in El Paso.
 And whereas Patty has served with distinction as the Vice President of Programming for iHeart Media El Paso, demonstrating exceptional leadership and a visionary approach to radio programming that has significantly enriched our city's cultural landscape.
 And whereas through her role as program director for Power 102 and 96.3 Kehei Country, she has used her platform to engage in community activities, promote events for families, and support local initiatives, showcasing her commitment to the community.
 And whereas Patty Diaz has been a pioneering force in radio, using her voice to represent, inspire, and empower women while balancing professional achievements with the responsibilities of being a devoted single mother serving as a role model for resilience, independence, and strength.
 and whereas in recognition of her three decades of service to the radio industry and her significant impact on the El Paso community, Patty Diaz has been rightly inducted into the Texas Radio Hall of Fame, an honor that reflects her outstanding contributions in the field broadcasting and her invaluable role in our community's life.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that April 9, 2024 shall be known as Patty Diaz signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser.
 Good morning. That was very well said. Thank you very much. This is Walter Alvarez, the general manager and president of iHeart El Paso. I've had the pleasure of working with Patty for the last 10 years, and everything you said is absolutely correct. She is incredibly dedicated not only to the job but to the listeners and just this whole community. So thank you for making this recognition because she is very, very well deserving of it. So thank you all, and thank you, Patty.
 good morning council good morning mayor lacer good morning um i want to give a special thanks to ernesto garcia and representative asavella for getting this on the agenda for today thank you so much um and for mayor lacer obviously for signing off on it thank you so much um i am deeply humbled and honored to stand before you today to celebrate 30 years of service to the city of el paso via the radio airwaves
 I was born and raised here in El Paso and it's been a privilege to have had the opportunity to contribute to the betterment of our city with music, with winning in contests, with laughs, important information and important conversations to be had. It's my love for this city and our community that's been the driving force behind my commitment to service and as I reflect on the past 30 years I'm filled with a great sense of pride, a sentiment that I hope my dad has for his eldest daughter.
 And he is here today. Thank you, Dad. The same feeling my son has as he has grown up watching his mom wake up at four o'clock in the morning and leave the house and still make it to all his games and contests and concerts. And he is here today skipping school. It's okay.
 I'm truly blessed to have had the opportunity to serve and be a part of this community, community that values compassion, unity, and progress. Thank you, thank you so much for this honor today. I'm truly grateful for the recognition and I look forward to continuing to serve our community for many years to come. I don't think it'll be 30, but I'll be here as long as you'll have me. So thank you so much. Thank you, Patty, and congratulations.
 I've known you for a long time. You do a great job and you know when you talk about 30 years You have to love what you do to be able to do it for 30 years and I've been blessed to love what I do, but for you to do it for 30 years and come up here and Continue to love your job in your profession. You're one of the best in that job. So congratulations Hi, Patty, we're just talking about k102 my dad worked there I know I
 Having spent a minute or two in radio myself, 30 years, slogging through the trenches behind the scenes is incredible. You've always been a beacon of professionalism in that industry. And those that don't realize what it's like when you're doing a morning show and out at four o'clock to try and go in, it's an experience unlike any other. And not only your longevity, but your
 dedication to taking care of listeners and information as well as entertainment is to be lauded and it's just really great to see somebody that that comes up here that isn't from an industry i hung out at for a little bit and including at k8 196 3 for a little bit with the rio trio but i mean you've done a great job and and i just you know congratulations there's nobody more deserving than you thank you so much i appreciate it
 Thank you. Mr. Klein? Representative Fierro? Thank you, Mayor.
 It's my honor and privilege to read this. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas since the inception in 1970, Earth Day is a day intended to rise awareness, appreciation of the Earth's natural environment. And whereas the global community faces extraordinary challenges such as climate change, food and water shortages, and global health issues. Whereas people in our community, regardless of age,
 raise income or gender have moral right to a healthy, sustainable environment, and whereas the City of El Paso Environmental Services Department annually hosts a celebration to promote sustainability and environmental change, whereas the sustainable environment can be achieved on the community level through education, outreach, efforts to help our communities and democracy thrive by working together for a common goal.
 Whereas the City of El Paso Environmental Services achieved on the community level through education, outreach efforts to help our communities and democracy thrive by working together for a common good.
 Whereas the City of El Paso Environmental Services will host its annual Earth Day celebration at 10 a.m. on April 20th, 2024, the City of El Paso Municipal Services Center, 7968 San Pablo Drive, and whereas we recognize
 Commend, not condemn, but commend the staff and the City Environmental Services Department for their hard work, dedication, commitment to our community. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and city council of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as Earth Day Celebration Month. Thank you so much. Oh, I'm sorry, sorry, stop clapping, stop clapping. Signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Nisar. Yes.
 Good morning, Nicholas Evato with Environmental Services. Thank you very much for this recognition. You know, I know a lot of folks throughout the city recognize environmental services just for trash collection and recycling collection, but I have an amazing staff back here that does a great job organizing outreach. They meet with many of our residents throughout the city educationally,
 educating them on recycling they provide the class to all the residents that need to get their blue bin as part of our program they do an amazing job setting all this up and we'd like to invite mayor and council to come out to our earth day celebration like representative mentioned it'll be April 20th from 10 to 2 p.m at our MSC at 7968 San Paulo and we welcome everybody there'll be music wrestling will be there also our theme for the for the event is uh
 planet versus plastic which is our mascot is mundo so that's the plan of fighting against plastic and we have a couple gift bags and That's everybody just as a friendly reminder for our event coming up on April Tonya. Thank you very much. Thank you Yes mayor the next item is 22 and
 Item 22 is discussion in action to approve a resolution to recognize April 9 2024 as El Paso Commission for Women Hall of Fame honorees day and their efforts in civic leadership This item was submitted by representative Fierro Thank You mayor, mr. Lamont Mr. Nguyen you're done hugging. Can you come to the podium, please? Oh
 Whereas the annual El Paso Commission for Women's, Women Hall of Fame recognition will be held April 9th, 2024 to honor the remarkable women who have made a significant contribution to our border community. Whereas the El Paso Commission for Women recognizes
 their efforts in civic leadership, education, military, public relations, public service, science, health care, sports, athletics, and volunteerism, whereas the El Paso Commission for Women proposed
 its purpose to a positive course of action for achieving equal rights and responsibilities for women and to provide scholarship funds for deserving El Paso women. And whereas the El Paso Commission for Women is committed to understanding and respecting the culture, ethnic diversity of women in our community and to serve as a model for plurality and inclusiveness. Whereas the 2024 honorees are Ms. Wilburn,
 Monica Tucker, Kim Diaz, Deanna Williams. Oh my God, help me with this one, Lily. Rahim, Ms. Rahim, Manuela Gomez, Jetta Roberts, and I practiced that before I read it, by the way. Jetta Roberts, Campbell Bowen, Ms. Maggie Morales Moody,
 and Bena Robinson, join the 212 women that now form the El Paso Commission for Women Hall of Fame, now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor, Honorable Oscar Leaser, and the council of the city of El Paso and honorees shall be part of the El Paso Commission for Women that Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 shall be known as the El Paso Commission for Women's Hall of Fame Honorary Day. Thank you. Good morning. Motion.
 Mayor Lisa, commissioners. Good morning. My name is Anna Harris Howell, and I'm the chair for the El Paso Commission for Women. And I have with me my vice chair, who I stand on her shoulders, Mrs. Lily Lamont.
 We're here with some fantastic, amazing, and dedicated women of the community. They were inducted into the El Paso Women's Hall of Fame on Saturday, and the star was lit on the mountain to honor them. I would like for them to come forth and introduce themselves and the category that they were chosen in. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Tanika Wilborn. I'm sorry.
 I'm originally from Meridian, Mississippi. I arrived here in El Paso because I served in the military, and I have been here since. I have gone to school here. I have taught students here, and I have been a mentor to those who had a dream that didn't know how to reach that dream, and I helped give them that push.
 In 2020, during COVID, I was able to open up my clinic and continue with my dream, which is Meridian Medical & Associates. And what we do in our facility is we assist with providing scholarships for those who are in need, and we serve the underserved communities. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Dr. Manuela Gomez. I'm a philosophy professor at El Paso Community College. For the last two decades, I've dedicated myself to making sure that philosophy transcends that classroom into our community with a lot of philanthropic projects.
 In 2022, I had the privilege of being a Piper Professor for the entire state of Texas, which is the highest recognition in higher education. But now adding this recognition from the women in my community is incredibly inspiring and honoring. We know that a lot of the labor from women goes not just unpaid but unrecognized. So this is great and I'm very thankful for your support. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Good morning, everybody. My name is Alicia Dijon-Davis. I am a Texas Silver Hair legislator, and I'm standing on the shoulder of the late Jada Roberts. She paved the way for all of us at TSHL, and I'm delighted for this recognition. She served with...
 honor for 28 years and she was responsible for many of the resolutions that passed particularly the last one HB 54 which thanks to that our residents and nursing homes are able to get that $60 raised to 75 as the personal need allowances. Thank you so very much. So can I know you congratulations? Oh
 My name is Diane Williams. I am a 30-year military Army retired veteran. I had the pleasure of joining the Army at the end of the Women's Army Corps, so I have had the honor of watching the military transition to a place where women can truly be all they can be.
 Upon retiring from the military, I have been very active in the community through the top ladies of distinction, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, the NAACP, and the Links Incorporated. All of these organizations have one thing in common, they are dedicated to serving our community.
 And I have the privilege of being a part of them and raising over $90,000 in scholarships so that deserving young students in El Paso can continue their education. And I am truly honored to be a member of this elite group. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Good morning, everyone. My name is Adiba Abdurrahim, and I'm an associate professor in the civil engineering department at the University of Texas, El Paso.
 Women represent just little over 10% of the U.S. construction workforce. And most of these women, they leave their career early on just because of the lack of the mentorship that they need. So at UTEP, under the Construction Engineering and Management program, we are training these women not to have all the technical skills, but also to survive and thrive in that very competitive construction industry.
 I'm glad to mention here that we have over 40% of our students, they are women, which is way over the national average. So go Miners. Thank you for this recognition and I'm grateful and looking forward to serve this beautiful community for many years to come. Thank you. Congratulations. Good morning. Good morning everyone. My name is Monica Tucker. I am the founder and publisher of Black El Paso Voice.
 and I'm honored to be here and receive this recognition. I'm so used to honoring others. It's kind of hard for me sometimes to accept honor myself, but I'm very grateful. I'm a military spouse, been here since 96, and I kind of started in civic engagement during that time, assisting other, at the time, junior enlisted families, and also those who were underserved, those who had been treated
 pretty badly in the community to assist them. And now, in addition to working with the black community and women and junior enlisted military families, my focus is also to engage the community to be more involved politically.
 and I'm honored also to partner this year with the city of El Paso for our 2024 Juneteenth event. So I thank you for that because that was because of all of you. So I'm very grateful, and I look forward to continuing my service here in the community. Thank you. Congratulations.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council. I'm Maggie Morales Moody. I was here just a couple of weeks ago in recognition of World Down Syndrome Day. It's always wonderful to be here and especially today is such a humbling and tremendous honor to be named part of the Hall of Fame for the many wonderful women that are here in our community and moving things forward and making our community better every day.
 I'm not the speaker for the family, usually it's Melissa who speaks to you all, and I'm going to tell you she does a much better job at it than I do. But I certainly work tirelessly because of Melissa to make things better for people who live with Down syndrome in our community. As you know, Gigi's Playhouse provides over 16 educational, therapeutic, and career development programs for people with Down syndrome.
 I had the honor and the privilege and the opportunity to be the founder of the El Paso Playhouse. I thank all of you for this recognition this morning. You know you always have a standing invitation to come by Gigi's Playhouse and share in the joy that we experience there every day. Thank you so much. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Before my vice chair comes and speaks, I just want to thank you, Mayor Lisa, for giving us this honor and allowing us to be here this morning. So thank you. Thank you for you all being here, and congratulations to everyone. And we have our former city representative, Lily Limon. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Thank you very much. And Representative Fierro, thank you for working through this proclamation. As you can tell, there are many. Many.
 strong, dynamic women in our community. And we're just honored that we were able to recognize 10 of them. There are many, many more. And I'm hoping that for next year, you all will also take the opportunity to nominate. We have many categories and we'll be back again next year. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Lamone. Mayor, I'd like to make a motion. Second. Thank you, thank you. To approve.
 There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potemolina to approve the resolution on item 22. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Fierro, thank you. And the voting session? And that motion passes unanimously. Is there a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess. The City Council meeting, all in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the meeting is in recess at 9.47 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Council, if I could get everybody, we're going to start with Occupational Earth Day, Celebration Month, and the Women's Hall of Fame Honorees Day. So we're going to be 24. It's adjourned at 10.40 a.m. Is there a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The meeting is back in session at 1040 a.m. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Proctor, I'm Kennedy.
 Page 3, item 4, move to regular agenda per Representative Acevedo. Page 4, item 6, move to regular agenda per Representative Canales. Page 6, item 18, delete per Representative Rivera. Page 13, item 38, delete per Representative Kennedy. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. We'll start with item four, ma'am. Yes, sir. Item number four is a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign amendment number one,
 I'm sorry, that was the sixth. Item four is a resolution authorizing the mayor to sign an interlocal cooperation agreement between the Department of Public Safety of the state of Texas and the city of El Paso to provide an established and automated failure to a peer system in the city of El Paso. This resolution is an amendment to add contract changes by the Department of Public Safety that were mandated in the 80th legislative session. Good morning, Mayor, Council, leadership.
 I WANTED TO START OFF BY SAYING THIS IS NOT A NEW CONTRACT. IT IS AN EXISTING CONTRACT AS OF 2010. IT DID RENEW AS OF MARCH OF 2023. THE REASON IT IS BEING BROUGHT TO COUNCIL IS DUE TO THE 88TH LEGISLATIVE SESSION THAT HAS MANDATED LANGUAGE THAT NEEDS TO BE IN THIS CONTRACT. ONE OF THEM BEING IT IS INDIGENCY AND THE OTHER IS TO ADD OCCUPATION, THE OPPORTUNITY FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE. WE DO HAVE A PRESENTATION IF YOU WOULD LIKE ME.
 Would you like to see that, sir? Please. Hi, T. Will you please bring up the presentation for Item 4? This is Strategic Goal. Set the standard for safe. Thank you. Thank you so much. Again, Goal 2, set the standard for a safe and secure city. Thank you.
 What is the Omni-Based Failure to Appear program? It is a, the Failure to Appear program is a Texas Department of Public Safety program. It is an enforcement program that may deny renewal of driver's license if an individual failed to appear.
 Again, that's if they are filled to appear for a citation or filled to satisfy a judgment ordering the payment of fine. This, to be clear, it is not a license suspension. It denies the renewal of the license if a hold is placed. Again, licenses are renewed every eight years.
 The Omni-based program, as I mentioned earlier, it has been in place already since 2010, and the last time that it renewed was of March 2023. And the contract changes that you see here are what was mandated by the 88th legislative session. Again, that's for indigency to include that in the contract,
 as well as now allowing an opportunity for an occupational license. So if a license is on hold, and they would like to, again, apply for an occupational license, it provides it for two years, and an additional two years, which is a total of four.
 The program benefits are it assists the court in enforcement, case resolution, and closure of cases, and is an opportunity for individuals to resolve pending cases and to remove the warrants. The hold is placed after 180 days of the warrant date, and the court does not require full payment of the warrant to release a hold. There is a statutory $10 per case required.
 I would like to emphasize that the court is proactive. Prior to the hold, the court attempts to reach and communicate at least 15 times to individuals and, again, available at any given time to provide options at every stage of the process.
 Historical data from 2016 to 2023. We had a conversion of technology and right now, this goes up to December of 2023. There's 57% open, closed 42%, and these are total number of cases. The amounts as you see below are those closed and those that are open.
 The cases, the Texas municipal courts that are utilizing the municipal courts and the ones that you see here, I just want to mention they are comparable to us. They're high volume courts. There are more courts in other municipalities that utilize the program. So what you see here are those that compare to the high volume that El Paso sees. And this is from January to December of 2023. Thank you.
 The averages for customer program data for the time of 2016 to 2023 are an average of two cases, averaging about $600, and if a hold needs to be removed, an individual will need to pay $20. Again, if an individual is unable to pay, they may request indigency, the court approves.
 The court has already had that established, so today again for the contract, we are adding indigency to the contract as well. The warrant will be recalled immediately during that time, and an individual can request an option to resolve the case.
 Printed on the citation and our website, we do have the 180 payment plan at any time. We also have the driver safety course if an individual qualifies at any time. Again, someone can pay the citation in full at any time. The submission of proof, paper violations prior to the arraignment, and a waiver arraignment prior to the arraignment date and request and trial date. Again, request an indigency hearing at any time.
 options available always and since we've received the citations we have our five bond stations we have email we have phone texting payment plans online live chat seven days a week 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. video arraignment and in person and again we have the 180 day plan at any given time thank you yeah there's some but I just want to
 One thing I do want to make clear, and I think we remember, we had a call to the public maybe a few months back, and we had somebody come up and was very strongly talking about this item and actually used some foul language. And we did find out after that happened they were filming a movie.
 And then the next day they came and filmed the rest of the movie out on the foyer and outside in front. So it was an actor acting out those things. So I just want to make sure people know that just in case they remember that. And the foul language that was used was all part of a movie. And then the other thing I do want to know is I think it's important, the note that –
 We don't no one gets their license suspended. Is that correct? Correct. So what it is is a time of renewal then you will not be able to renew your license after you have these ten attempts and ten options to be able to take care of it as low as $10 payments. Yes.
 Again, but no one will get their license suspended or taken away due to citations on being paid they just have options they can exercise at that point correct and with the mandated language from the Legislature that actually is gonna it is being we need to add that into the contract So the indigency will be part of the contract as well as the occupational license for those two years So even if they have a hole they can still apply for an occupational license for those two or totally those four years Okay. Thank you for that representative
 FIERRO, FOLLOWED BY REPRESENTATIVE ASSALERO. THANK YOU, MAYOR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE PRESENTATION. YOU MENTIONED, CAN YOU TELL ME WHAT THE AVERAGE DEBT, OUTSTANDING DEBT IS OF AN INDIVIDUAL? DO YOU HAVE THAT DATA? I DON'T HAVE THAT AVAILABLE. OKAY. OKAY. THERE'S, OKAY. I THOUGHT MAYBE WE DISCUSSED IT DURING OUR BRIEFING. IN REGARDS TO THE CONTACT INFORMATION, IS IT AVAILABLE IN ENGLISH AND SPANISH?
 The contract? The contract. At the court? Yes. Yes. Is it available anywhere else besides on the court? Yes, we do have actually Spanish and English documentation. Okay. So if I'm in debt, have outstanding citations, it really is my fault for not reaching out and trying to make some sort of arrangement. Is that a fair statement?
 We have options available at any given time. So if an individual calls, and I do have an example even from yesterday, someone with more than 20 pending cases and our staff providing the options, so at any given time offering indigency so they can come and resolve those cases with us. So again, it's just a little bit of time from the public reaching out to us so we can actually clarify what it is that we have available even before the hold comes into place.
 Now in regards to that example, 20 different citations or violations, they weren't all in one day. Correct, it was already a period of time, in some reaching even 15 years, so we do have some. So it really is just me procrastinating, not caring, not wanting to pay my debt to the community. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Chair Representative Salvello, followed by Representative Canales.
 Thank you for all the time you've spent with me on this specifically, and I appreciate you making time on this. I think that I have been reviewing this presentation and other things on this, and I think one of the biggest things that is really sticking out to me on this, well, there's a few things,
 One is I realize that this is not suspending licenses, but you're not able to renew your license if it expires, right? And so I think that's inadvertently suspending it at one point, right? Because I think you're going to have a lot of people that once it's time for renewal and it might be a coincidence, like the example that I used with you is that my license, I need to renew it next January already.
 at that point if I fall under this and I don't
 pay then at that point I have an invalid license and I think that what I've seen with this is that the research has really shown that people are still continuing to use their licenses. So I feel that more than offering a solution to this issue of trying to collect debt, it's creating other problems. I also see that this is really a way of generating fees for Omni-based services
 instead of really collecting more revenue. We've had this at the city for 14 years. And I think this program has really become at this point something that has been ingrained in the system with little return. I realize that it has collected some money, but
 to me it's not significant in terms of how much money has been collected. There's still thousands of people that are owing this money, so I don't think it's really incentivizing people to do it, even if you're going to suspend the license or not allow them to renew, whichever way you look at it that way, kind of see it the same way. It's just one is going to have a longer runway to get there. Then I also see some of the things that
 that the municipal court in general there's inefficiencies that are coming out of this and I think as something when when I look at local government I always try to look at it as how can we do processes policy systems to make it more efficient for people and at this point I think this is also doing a lot of confusion with the public
 There's notices, there's calls, there's mail that gets sent out and then sometimes it's from El Paso Municipal Court, sometimes it's from OmniBay, sometimes it's from a collection agency. So I think as somebody that is a member of the public that owes this money, I think there's also that confusion, who do I pay it to, right? And so with that, I also see that we could be doing something a little bit different. This program has been here for 14 years.
 we could be providing better ways of even defining what indigency means. Like how can somebody understand if they're going to be indigent? How can they access those resources?
 make sure that there's gonna be better revenue. I've been used for fines for fee waivers using more pre-child diversion things. So I'd rather do something like that rather than continue this whole thing of not really seeing the results that are significant from this other than paying more fees to OmniBase.
 And then I think that we also need to, just in general, as I kind of said, you know, indigent deaf, defining that, really making better forms to clarify that for people. Maybe that in itself will kind of get through all the confusion people are seeing. And so that's kind of where I stand on this. I think that I know that this was renewed last year.
 But I would like to make a motion to not accept these changes and opt out of the Omni-based program and so effectively terminating the contract. I'm sorry. Thank you, sir. Representative Canales? There's no second. No. Representative Canales, followed by you, everyone. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to start by expressing my reservations as well with the Omnibase FTA, Failure to Appear program. I acknowledge that these efforts to revise certain aspects of the program are good, but I'm still really concerned about the overall impact that the Omnibase program has on members of the community. First and foremost, I understand it serves as a
 enforcement tool for the Municipal Court but it also has really significant repercussions for people who have to interact with the court and people whose cases are before the court placing holds on driver's license renewals really disproportionately impacts those people who are already facing hardship and
 It can hinder their ability to fulfill their obligations to their families, even to get meaningful employment, to be able to earn the money to pay the fines and fees that they owe. I think that the data presented in the presentation shows a pretty staggering number of cases entered in El Paso alone. It was 21,824 cases entered with an average.
 outstanding fine of $600 that's a huge amount of cases stuck in the system where we have someone likely unable to pay and we are taking away one of their tools to be able to to earn the money that they need to pay
 I just think generally, again, the efforts here are good. I appreciate that the legislature recognized the need to make these kinds of changes. And so I can support the changes today, but I think we need to continue to look at the effectiveness of Omnibase as a tool and evaluate going forward whether or not we want to remain within the program, using the program.
 we've had this conversation for several months now. I understand that there's been an effort to evaluate the effectiveness, and I've not seen the results of that effort. And so I do want to see that moving forward and try to have more data from the program from El Paso so we can make the best decision about
 What will benefit our residents the most? You know, again, I understand there's some amount of personal responsibility and for people to pay the fines that they owe, but it can be tough to do so when someone who doesn't understand the system well is then further hamstrung by having their driver's license taken away. That's all for now. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez? No.
 The only thing I was going to mention is I agree with both Dr. Representative Acevedo and represent canal is that having family members who have holds and then seeing the incredible Hardship that comes from having your license either on hold or suspended and then the employment implications of that you know, there's a lot of logistical and transportation related jobs that
 are impacted as it relates to these holds. But if not this, what else, right? And so I don't think we're at that point so that we can transition at this time. I think, you know, I agree with Representative Canales, we have to support this today. However, our judges, our municipal judges can play a greater role and not understanding this world until recently because there's advocates who've reached out to our office
 I have learned that even when we're appointing judges, we could ask them these questions. We can ask them to have a greater role in keeping folks out of the system, if you will, and asking them to do either community service or whatever program a municipal judge should have. We see some municipal judges who really understand their authority and take ownership of their court, like the teen courts and other great programs that are derived.
 But I think altogether the council needs to be educated your judges need to be educated and we all need to be willing to help these folks because the Omni base is just going to be this arbitrary like very administrative process that you just can't they it just doesn't understand the realities of the human element and
 And so asking our judges to play a greater role to keep folks, indigent folks, in an opportunity so that their employment is not impacted, I think is going to be a great alternative. But it really takes this council and your leadership to help focus some of those judges in that direction. And so I'm happy to work with those judges and share some of those best practices as well.
 I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS TODAY. I JUST WANTED TO SHARE THAT WITH YOU BECAUSE THERE ARE GREAT CONCERNS ABOUT THE PROCESS. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. REPRESENTATIVE MOLINAR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MAYOR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR PRESENTATION. THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR ALL YOUR WORK THROUGHOUT THE YEARS, MANY YEARS. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE UNDERSTAND THAT THE DRIVING A MOTOR VEHICLE UPON THE PUBLIC ROADWAYS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS IS A PRIVILEGE. IT IS NOT A RIGHT.
 It is a privilege. It's definitely not a ride. When you're out there on a public roadway, it is public safety that should be coming up first. You should be concentrated on your driving. Your vehicle needs to be maintained, the tires, the gas, the battery, your windshield wipers, your headlights, all that equipment needs to be maintained in a proper manner, okay? It all comes down to public safety. I will be supporting this, and I move to approve. I second.
 thank you sir representative um pharaoh followed by representative canadas thank you mayor um will you pull up the slide please on the options that are available please sure number i think it's nine thank you thank you representative nine with the ten options yes sir i just want to see him again because i'm hearing different things and that looks like a lot of options well it's not up there it's slide nine there you go
 Can you just go through them one more time? Yes, definitely. And again, this is before we reach out to, as soon as we receive citations, we reach out to our individuals and make sure that this information, first of all, it is on the citation. It is available from day one, so it starts from that day. But we do have our five locations, again, email.
 phone texting, I know what we have seen an increase is actually the live chat. We do have someone there. We have a Warrants team that's there 24-7, 365. We have online options, video arraignment as well, that's actually been really successful also on our Westside location and in person. We're there till six o'clock, 7 a.m. So we do have multiple options available even prior to the hold actually coming up. So that's something that I do take away and I thank you for your time for meeting with us.
 uh... we're gonna take back the feedback that we got to improve the communication to our community we we understand we need to be a little bit more vocal and clarify what we have available prior to even that hold coming coming up thank you uh... you know i think our municipal judges do an outstanding job uh... i i've sat in municourt and i've seen them give options make recommendations
 To me, a lot of these issues that we're talking about are people who didn't even go to court. Am I correct? Correct. To criticize our muni judges for not going above and beyond their jobs, which I think they are, by the way, is, I think, irresponsible because if I don't show up –
 well how you know how are they gonna they're not gonna come to my house well like my my chief bacillas might but they're not going to come to my house to to walk me through it and and so again i on my opinion is our municipal judges are doing an outstanding job when people show up to court and when they show up to court they they can see the options that are available to them and how to to benefit them and and how they can get payment etc but
 I was going to go into what amount would we be talking about that isn't in hold if we didn't have a tool like OmniBase. I can't even imagine what that number would be like. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Canales followed by, I'm sorry, Representative Rivera.
 And then Representative, Mayor Pro Tem and then Representative Fernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. First of all, thank you for your presentation. It's great. Having lived through this along with Representative Molinar, we understand what's at stake here. And it's gotten a lot better where you are presenting this both in English and Spanish so people can understand.
 And the main part here, and I believe that Representative Fierro was looking at my notes when he said it, is the fact that it is the responsibility of the driver behind the wheel of a car to have everything that's necessary, correct? And does the city of El Paso, is the city of El Paso the one that suspends the license? It's the state of Texas, correct? Correct.
 So we have nothing to do with license suspensions other than it's coming from the state of Texas. So it's an education that should be done here. And the fact is that if you get behind the wheel, you know the responsibility behind you. And people that assume that it's okay not to pay your fee,
 It only becomes a concern when they're on the other side of an accident where somebody doesn't have insurance and somebody doesn't have a driver's license and they've been cited more than once, multiple times.
 and I sit here and I can ask for my colleague, Representative Molinari, and he'll attest to this, the Chief, everybody else. We've had times where the same driver is cited maybe 15, 20 times, and he still doesn't pay, and the city gives him the opportunity instead of going to jail because of the outstanding warrants to pay one or two, correct? Correct.
 so that option is still up there and i'm just want to make sure that you know that hasn't changed and i agree with the representative on that it's not i've seen judges be lenient on some and lower the bond to where they could afford it and not necessarily what's posted by you know the city
 I believe that the judges are doing their due diligence on that, and I have to agree, the courts are also bound by the state of Texas to how much fine can be, correct? Yes. So I appreciate what you're doing here. I think your program is outstanding, and it's one that shouldn't be overlooked but supported. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Mayor Pro Tem.
 Yeah, I just wanted to say that I appreciate that indigency has been entered into this as an option and recognizing it. The chance to get an occupational license has also been included because it keeps people earning. My biggest concern, well, first is I'm not going to be posing hypothetical questions to potential clients.
 judges. Judicial philosophy is one thing, but I'm not going to be running hypothetical cases in front of them because they can't answer it anyway. But I think that that
 The definition of indigency, the discovery of it, and communication is more difficult because so many times that category and that entire, when you look at indigency, you say, well, we sent out emails. Well, you're presuming they have an email. You're presuming that they have a cell phone. I mean, there are some presumptions made with that, and I just want to make a note for you to take back that anything we can do for better communication and explanation to those who are indigent
 And sometimes it may mean that we have to take a little extra care to ensure the communication is is correct or that they understood it Because I've run into a couple of cases where somebody that was indigent Got the same information, but didn't have the same reference of knowledge to understand. This is what you need to do So I just if you would take that back also, um
 I mean, there's concerns. I agree there's nothing to replace it with. That would be a concern. But I would just say, you know, that is my biggest stopping point is how we do a better job at making sure people that say I don't have, you know, all the communication routes available, which might limit some of their options on how to pay it also. I think there are plenty of options. I just, you know, if you'd take that back and kind of take a look at that, I'd appreciate that. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I think I agree with you on their pro tem that not everybody has every option available to him And that's why there's ten different options. So I agree with you on that We have Representative canal has followed that'll be his second time and then represent us about that'll be his second time. Thank you, sir. Thank you mayor Yeah, I wanted to clarify a couple of things. I know suspension of licenses
 is a state function, but Omnibase here, we're talking about renewal of licenses. This has nothing to do with suspension of driver's licenses, correct? Correct. Yeah, so Omnibase is an opt-in program. Those individual municipalities enter into an agreement to use Omnibase. Multiple Texas cities have opted out of using Omnibase. City of Austin, Harris County, they opted out in 2020.
 The city of Dallas opted out in 2023. There are multiple cities who are not participating in Omnibase, and that gives us a good comparison when looking at revenue generated kind of as a proxy for whether or not people are paying, whether or not Omnibase is contributing to people paying their outstanding fines.
 And the reality is, it is not. I'm looking at a white paper from the Texas Public Policy Foundation. They did a pretty extensive comparison between cities that opted in and opted out. There's essentially no change in fines and fees collected in the cities utilizing omnibase and not utilizing omnibase.
 And so while on its face it may seem like Omnibase is a means for essentially pressuring people to pay because there's a consequence of having their license suspended, in practice that's not what's happening. People are not paying regardless, hopefully making the change to –
 renew the license in cases of indigency will help here but that's not clear that's just being rolled out but if we're looking apples to apples cities with on the base cities not utilizing on the base it has shown that the program is not effective at getting people to appear getting people to pay their fines I'm happy to share this with the council if
 Ms. Prine, actually, I'd like to enter this into the record to be appended to the minutes. And that this being the, it's a white paper from Texas Public Policy Foundation, On the Road and Back to Work, Reforming Driver's License Regulations in Texas. Yes, sir. I had another question, it's probably for Ms. Neiman or Ms. Prine, the posting today
 It's essentially just the amendment to the interlocal agreement, correct? If it wasn't approved today, the existing interlocal cooperation agreement would still be in effect and the on-the-base program would continue as it currently is. Is that the case? I guess simplified my question is this action or the posting language wouldn't allow the action to completely...
 Withdrawal from on the base today, correct, right? So the contract that we're in right now expires I believe it's three years after we first signed it But there would be issues with that contract because the state legislature specifically mandates the changes to include the indigency to include the The increased fee and so we would still have issues with our current contract if we didn't pass this today Yeah, of course. I my question was more about there. There was a there was a motion made on
 TO INSTEAD OF APPROVING THIS TO WITHDRAW FROM THE AGREEMENT ENTIRELY, DOES THE POSTING LANGUAGE TODAY ALLOW FOR THAT? YEAH, THAT WOULDN'T BE POSSIBLE BECAUSE THE CONTRACT IS STILL IN PLACE AS OF TODAY. WE WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO CANCEL THE CONTRACT WITHOUT FOLLOWING THE PROCEDURES THAT ARE LAID OUT IN THAT ORIGINAL CONTRACT WITH DPS. OKAY. YEAH, I JUST WANTED TO MAKE IT CLEAR, AGAIN, I THINK I'VE MADE IT EXCEPTIONALLY CLEAR THAT
 you know strong objections to on the base as a program my lack of seconding that motion was not it had nothing to do with how I feel about the program supporting it or not I don't think it's possible based on what's written in the posting language today and what's in the original contract but I do think that we need to continue to look at whether whether or not we choose to free up that contract when it expires
 Yes, ma'am, go ahead. Procedurally, we would need to receive a motion from council to terminate the current agreement. Right now, we have a motion to approve. Right, but in answering Representative Canales' questions, the motion...
 It's not something that we would recommend to not adopt the amendments because we have to comply with state law The other the only other alternative is for council to direct us to move forward with terminating the contract Is that would that be allowable based on today's posting language? You would need to direct us to come back with that Terminate the agreement. Okay. Thank you. Like I said right now we do have a motion to approve I'm sorry
 Yeah, I guess I also wanted to clarify some some stuff I think that on on this this is specifically on OmniBase which we've been in with a contract for 14 years now And I hear the city attorney loud and clear in terms of you know, the motion would be to comment come back and terminate this whole thing, but I think that I
 The only reason that this is up for discussion right now is because the state passed these changes that we need to add, but if we weren't part of Omnibase, we wouldn't have to be doing these changes anyway, because the state does not mandate us to be part of Omnibase at all. This is just another, I'm assuming private company that we have contracted with for 14 years, but with it or without it,
 we would still be having to collect these fees anyway. And the big issue that I have with this is that this is just generating fees for Omnibase. I don't see the significance that it has provided in making people pay. And so I understand that I asked you for data on Thursday for the last 10 years on that,
 but I think that just backed by data, the numbers are gonna look different. Like you said, five years ago, prior to COVID, now with COVID, this is not collecting money for us. It is collecting money, but not in a significant way that we could see it. And again, the state of Texas is not allowing people to renew their stuff, but they're not allowing people to renew their stuff because we are in a contract with them. If we weren't in this contract, we wouldn't be in this position.
 Right? So. Yes, you're right. Lilia World from the Municipal Court Director. I just wanted to clarify. So DPS, Department of Public Safety, is actually the one that has a contract with OmniBase. The municipalities and the counties then have to have a separate contract through OmniBase. There is a $10 fee fine for every case. The city does keep $4 of that. OmniBase does keep $6. It was $30, but then it was reduced to 10.
 Our main thrust with this program is actually to get people to come in here into the court to actually resolve their cases because as Annabel said, just yesterday there was somebody that came into the court, 23 warrants, and we automatically recall the warrant as long as they make an effort to come in and pay. We do not require them to pay it in full.
 just the $10 for each case. And then we immediately recall that warrant. Also, if they claim indigent, anybody can claim indigency, we will let them speak to the judge, set them up and they can go before the judge. The judge will then determine whether to waive everything, including the fines and fees, or whether to assign community service. So we already have that option. And the judges do assign community service. Not everybody completes it, but they do give everybody that option.
 But can you give me a percentage, let's say last year, of how many people, how many cases did you have last year? And how many actually went through because OmniBase helped? No, I don't have it with me. So I had requested those 10 years of data, and I've seen some of it from, I believe, back in, I forget. Sorry, let me pull it up again.
 um yeah i think it was in 2021 i saw data that you really didn't see any significance on on that and so i think when we go back to slide nine like that slide was referenced several times and you have online by phone and all of those things i think one big thing that is missing there is that there are three things that are that are happening
 Those are coming from a past municipal court, they're coming from a collection agency, and they're coming from OmniBase. So imagine getting all those different calls and emails and those nine different options that you had on slide nine, and you're just creating more confusion rather than making government efficient, and at the same time actually getting people to pay
 because it's not an incentive enough to say your license is not going to get renewed. People are still not doing it. So that's where I see OmniBase as an issue. This, this contract is not good. And this is what I'm saying. Like if you gave me, okay, OmniBase, we had 50,000 cases and 40,000 cases, even 20,000 cases.
 came in and they did it because of Omnibase, then I would say, okay, this program might be working and we could see where we could actually make it better and do things to make it better. But at this point, for 14 years, this has been a failure over and over and over again. And so that is where I see the biggest issue with this. And we're just giving more money to Omnibase.
 Every single time rather than getting results from it Thanks to Omni base alone not because of the Municipal Court efforts not because of the collection agency efforts but
 It's literally omnibus. No, and it could be any of those. And so that's what I mean. Like that's the thing. Like when you present data like that, that is a very dangerous thing to do because you're just saying it could be all these different things. But I think that that's again when we're playing with the numbers, we're manipulating them to say, oh, as a council person, if I didn't ask that question, oh, the omnibus is doing 42% and this is a great program.
 but if you break it down, you're not gonna see the significance there. And it's a very ineffective, it's a failure of a program and we continue to be part of this. And this is why I could have said something a little bit better to say direct staff to terminate and I understand that wording and I didn't get a second on that,
 I don't see how we're doing this as a city council to be endorsing this to continue moving forward at this for 14 years and Not getting any results This is just one option one tool that the court has And it's yeah, you do have other tools and this is probably the worst of them all and not a great program for us to continue in thank you Thank you
 No, I just had a couple of comments. I think that there is consistency or some consensus that we just wanna do more for our residents. And so I just wanna clarify, cause my words are often misconstrued. I love our municipal court judges
 I was never criticizing them. In fact, you know how much I love them? I volunteer in all of their campaigns, and I've advocated to increase their salaries. So I just want to make sure the record was corrected, and I'm looking forward to voting in favor of increasing their salaries. But us as policymakers, it is our duty to review which programs are effective,
 are achieving economies of scales, are helping our residents, and you've heard today that there is a concern, there are statewide initiatives, and we just need to explore them and see how we can improve our services. And so, like we said, there's multiple tools, and I think that if we become too lenient on one tool, the unintended consequence is that
 either there's money being left on the table, our indigent residents are facing economic hardship, and so we're looking for other avenues. And if you have any other avenues that you want to explore that we've never considered, I would be eager to hear those out in our upcoming budget session. Thank you for all your work. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. We have public comment, ma'am? Yes, Mayor. Ms. Turner would like to comment on this item. Good morning, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes.
 I found this discussion quite interesting. You have this company, if that's what you want to call it, working for you for 14 years, and you still have issues. Okay? Either the bulb's gone out or you didn't pay your electric bill. But to me, if somebody is messing up for 14 years, maybe it's time that you terminate. Okay? Now, I heard two of our...
 Council members talk about driving. The last time I looked at it, the municipal courts handled more than those who drive. A whole lot of things the municipal courts handle. But I also have failed to hear over the years if anybody from council complained about DUIs. DUIs are a misdemeanor. You want to charge a $10 fee, but you will refuse to ask your legislative people to turn DUIs down.
 Into something more than a misdemeanor can't do that. We got a drink and drive in Texas. That's our right we talk about rights Well, you want the bills paid people have to have the ability to get to work and back and I don't know about the judges Do judges allow a single parent to bring their children to court? Do they I mean we have women at the VA who can't they have to choose between going and getting medical care because I
 or staying home with their kids because they don't have anybody to babysit nobody's thinking i hear a lot of people talking from the position of privilege you're forgetting about who you represent okay so i don't know you know i don't know how you got to this point but this corporation is not doing its job it's not solving the problems that it's been hired to do plus let's talk about driver's license we heard well the state suspends driver's licenses
 Well, guess what? The state renews the driver's license. They can't come to the city and renew a driver's license. They have to go to the state. So if you take that right drive away, it's going to impact their ability to work. How do they get to the doctor? If they're going to follow the laws, how are they going to get to the doctor? What are you doing to make it easier for them to pay the responsibility?
 Instead of just adding more and more and more debt onto them. You've got to step back, rethink this issue, and dump Omni, whatever this thing is, and start anew. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Because right now it's not doing anything for you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. I think we missed that there's 10 different opportunities and there's an occupational license you can get. And also that I don't think you're limited who can go to court with you or not.
 So, Mayor Pro Tem, and then we are going to call the question. Yeah, I was just going to quickly say, yeah, I've seen a lot of people bring kids into court, and I was also going to say that DWI third or more is a felony in the state of Texas. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. With that, Ms. Pryor. Yes, Mayor, there was a motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve item four on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. Thank you.
 And that motion passes 7-1 with Representative Acevedo voting nay. Thank you for the presentation. The next item that was moved to the regular agenda is item 6 and this is a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign amendment number 1 to the articles of agreement between the City of El Paso and the El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association for the contract period covering September 1, 2023 through August 31, 2027. Thank you Representative Canales.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, as I explained yesterday when I asked for this to be moved from the consent agenda to the regular agenda,
 I've reviewed it very thoroughly. I don't have any problems with the changes being made. It is mostly correcting Scrivener's errors, essentially typos. There are some small items where when the CBA was originally agreed, they said that a later conversation would happen to iron something out. Those conversations have happened now, and those changes are being made. I just wanted it to be...
 presented publicly, I think it's such a big driver of our budget. You know, personnel is the biggest chunk of our expenditures, and the agreement with the Police Officers Association is a big part of that. So I think it's just good to present this publicly for everyone's benefit. Okay. Thank you, Chief. Peter Pacillas, for the record, can IT bring up the presentation? Good morning, Chief. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Thank you.
 So this is the amendment number one to the CBA between the city of El Paso and the police association. With me is Sergeant Patrick Natividad, the president of the police association. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 So this just outlines the history of the CBA, the current one that we're on. It was signed in September of last year, and it's going to go through August 31st of 2027. And it just says that in Article 33, everything has to be reduced to writing. Next slide, please.
 The first article that was addressed was Article 4 on wages. Basically, it's just clearing up language so people that are promoted, they know that their new anniversary date happens on their date of promotion. So, for example, if a detective gets promoted, sergeant, lieutenant, or commander, their anniversary date and time and grade is where their steps start happening. They still retain their time with the city from the time that they graduated from the academy, but their new steps coincide with their time and grade.
 The next thing was is at the time that the
 CBA was executed Payroll needed to come up with a code number So it can be tracked through the payroll process for the police executive assistant chief position And then the last one is is when we make somebody an officer in charge Meaning they're going to be handling the duties Above their current rank for example an officer detective is stepping in for a sergeant or sergeant stepping in for a lieutenant That they get a five percent
 pay increase while they're handling those responsibilities. And the reason for that is they are held accountable for those positions during that time, so the pay should be commensurate to their responsibilities and duties. The next one just puts in a matrix so everybody understands what it is on how they came up with $125 maximum incentive pay under Article 6. It's just five dollars a month per year of service and it maxes out at $125.
 Next slide is on Article 9, uniform and equipment. So when detectives get promoted to a detective, they get a clothing allowance. That's $475. It's broken up in two different time periods, in the fall and in the spring. And it will go up to $650 come January of next year. Next slide.
 This one is just the scrivener or typo. Just need to be corrected from 440 hours to 500 hours of vacation. And then it clarified the timeframes when an employee could sell back their sick leave to the city of El Paso. Next slide. And then the grievance procedure, this is just another cleanup from Civil Service
 The city of El Paso, the city of El Paso works directly with the association on designating hearing officers for arbitration. Next slide. And this last one is an IRS mandate.
 saying that the deductible has to go up from $3,000 to $3,200. And so to be in compliance with the IRS, that's why we did this one. But that's why we did all this stuff. The union, their attorneys, and our city attorneys worked all this out. And so we're recommending approval of this so we can just move forward with the CBA. Motion to approve. Second. Does the chair have an opportunity to brief everyone on this? I know I got a brief from you.
 We briefed eight of you. Okay, thank you for that. Sorry, Mayor, I think I still have the floor. Do I still have the floor, Mayor? Go ahead, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Chief. Thank you, Sergeant Natividad. Again, I want to be clear. The CBA that was executed last year I think was an excellent agreement between the city and the officers. You know, it had unanimous support from the council.
 and it had very near unanimous support from the officers. That doesn't often happen in negotiations for a CBA. And so I think the... I want to make sure the public understands this is a great agreement. These are very small changes, and adjustments like this happen in a CBA as the years go by because they are longer-term agreements. So happy to support this today. I don't think I can make the motion anymore, but...
 I'd be happy to support. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem, thank you, sir. Yeah, this is the same presentation that you briefed us on, right? Yes, sir. Okay. Well, I felt like I was having deja vu for a second, you know, like watching the movie Cars for the 12th time with my grandkids. And I just wanted to commend you for learning the word scrivener. Typo. Ms. Pines? Yes, Mayor. There was a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the resolution on item six,
 On that motion, call for the vote. And council, I'll remind you to please refrain from side conversations while the meeting is in progress in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you, Chief. Thank you. Pat, thank you. That brings us to page number eight, to item number 23. Item 23 is presentation and discussion on El Paso Animal Services Animal Protection Officers. Good morning, Mayor and Council.
 Gina Ramirez here, field operations manager. I saw you on TV this morning. Thank you for having me here this morning. I appreciate the consideration, and I know you guys are busy, so I won't take too much of your time. But I wanted to just give a brief overview of what our Animal Protection Division team is and what are roles we play out in our community, what we used to be, and how we've transitioned to where we are today. Next slide, please.
 So, El Paso Animal Services Field Division is not the only animal control unit that is within our county of El Paso. We have partner agencies that we work with day in and day out, and that's going to be our county animal welfare, our Socorro Animal Control, and our Teguas Animal Control. All the animals that they pick up do come and touch ground here with our facility at 5001 Fred Wilson. Okay.
 Some of our other partner agencies that we work with are going to be Texas Parks and Wildlife, the El Paso Police Department's Animal Cruelty Investigation Unit, and, of course, Texas Health and Human Services. Next slide, please. We are public safety. Our animal protection team play a vital role in the health and safety of our constituents, as well as promoting compassion, respect, and safety for the animals in our community.
 Our officers operate tirelessly to ensure the safety and well-being of our pets, but also safeguarding our neighborhoods from any potential threats and hazards. Our officers operate off of three shifts. Our morning shift is going to be from 7 to 3.30.
 Our evening shift is going to be from 2.30 to 11 p.m., and then we have our on-call, which respond to high priorities in our P1, such as injured animal, cruelty in progress, an outside agency that's needing assistance, such as PD if they're making an arrest and we have to pick up those animals, we'll go ahead and do that and assist as well. The field operations is also comprised of 43 positions with currently eight vacancies. Next slide, please.
 Our animal protection officers. We were once known as the dreaded dog catchers And the shelter was once known as the pound. I have been here for 18 years if I get emotional, I'm sorry But I've seen our department transition so much that it's It's a very rewarding feeling. I started off in 20 2006 as a kennel attendant and
 Every three days, we were given a list of maybe 50 for employees. You go pick that animal out of its cage, you bring it to the youth room, and you would put them down knowing that they had owners out there. After I promoted as an officer, our main objective was to go out to the community and round up all the animals that we can find, regardless if we knew that they had pets or not, and bringing them into the shelter for their three-day holding period.
 We've transitioned from that and I'm very proud to say that we're still always looking for ways to improve. And we've transitioned from 2016, we transitioned into animal protection officers. Our roles changed. We're no longer just trying to round up every animal. We wear different hats in the community.
 As officers, once we employ an officer, they must pass a state-required test. It's a two-day training, and once they pass that test, they go on to six to eight weeks of training with their field training officers, which is a veteran officer. Throughout that time, they also must maintain 30 hours of continuing education. Some of the trainings that we provide them are going to be basic and advanced animal cruelty investigation,
 dangerous dog tools investigation, key component witness identifications, animal health and disease recognition to include control and prevention, and report writing. Next slide please. Some of our APO duties. These are just some of what we do on a daily basis. Won't bog everyone down with the whole list, but our APOs handle and investigate a variety of calls.
 Just to name a few, we do handle roadside sales, not only for domestic dog and cats, but also aquatic turtles. We respond to exposures, animal cruelties, stray animals, and holdings. Our officers also engage in what we call El Paso Animal Services Prime. In the event an owner's
 an owner's pet touches ground to the shelter, and for whatever reason, whether it's lack of transportation or mobility, they cannot claim their pet, our officers will be deployed to pick up the owner's pets and take them right to their doorstep. As Representative Rivera and Representative Molinar, thank you for your service with the law enforcement. As you very well know,
 In each call, each investigation, we must be thorough and do our due diligence. Every call is investigated and worked diligently. Diligent investigation is essential for identifying and holding individuals accountable that have committed crimes. But it also ensures an evidence collection, whether it's physical evidence, photos, and statements, providing RGA's office that likelihood of a conviction.
 January of this year, with the assistance of our assistant city attorneys, we were able to provide a presentation to our municipal judges, providing them an overview of what the duties are as the officers and how they concluded that that violation was committed. It helped the judges understand more in depth of how the officers operate out in the field. Next slide, please. This slide, pretty much it's our animal protection officer tools.
 Of course, all our officers are going to be equipped with our vehicles. Each officer is equipped with a scanner. Part of their pre-chip is making sure that their scanners are functional to ensure that when a pet is picked up, we are scanning and checking if we can identify and locate a microchip. One of our major tools that we've used and transitioned to is going to be social media. Our social media platforms have played such a vital role in getting these pets back into the community.
 but have also helped us in investigations. So we use our platforms a lot. Next slide, please. By numbers. Okay, so this slide is going to be our cases and our activities for the last four years. Everything in orange are going to be the calls that we responded to and we handled. The purple is going to be the activities. So to not confuse you, for each case warrants an inspection or follow-up.
 One case may be one follow-up and the call can be concluded or one call can initiate 10, 12 follow-ups depending on the call that we're investigating. Bites, hoardings, cruelties, standards of care. So it just depends on the call but the purple are gonna be the activities. Thank you. Our main objective for this slide is gonna be all of our citations of 2023.
 Our main objective as animal protection officers are to gain compliance. We want our community to want to be better owners, to be more responsible pet owners. While we're doing that, we also have a balance of not only engagement, but enforcement. Not every call results in a violation. We have a lot of new residents from different countries, and we've paid them a visit because we were deployed out on the standards of care for unreasonable restraint.
 A lot of these new residents come from countries that don't even have animal laws. So it's our responsibility to educate them and provide them the knowledge of what is required here, not only in Texas but in El Paso. Our department, when we do enforce and enforcement is taken, our department is responsible for identifying violations for city and state laws within our jurisdiction.
 Once the violation is issued, it enters a whole separate legal and administrative process. Our department initiates it by issuing the violation, but we do not oversee the process on what happens next, the outcome, or any fines that are determined to the owner. Next slide, please.
 i'm sorry can you go back to the slide night i'm sorry and i did want to point out um the the highest three that we have are going to be no vaccination no rabies no rabies vaccination no microchip and no registration our microchip is a bit lower our officers are equipped with microchip so when we do go to a call and
 We have owners wanting to comply and cooperate. Our officers are able to microchip on the spot, gaining that compliance and getting that pet microchipped, giving them an extra safety guard to getting them back home in case they get out. Okay, I'm sorry, next slide. More than just dog catchers. Again, we still see it in movies and what were known as dog catchers or dreaded dog catchers, but we're a lot more than that. Our animal protection officers are far more than that.
 Beyond apprehending stray animals, we play a multifaceted role in different ranges and responsibilities. We have to wear different hats in different calls. We enforce animal laws, we investigate cases, we assist injured and distressed animals, but we also educate the public on how to be responsible pet owners. We work extended beyond the streets to include humane education programs.
 Outreach initiatives such as our mega clinic events providing free vaccines to our community and microchips. And of course our partnerships with other shelters and our local rescues. Our community, we are 100% reliant on our community. Our rescue partners, without them we wouldn't be able to be doing what we are doing today. We strive every day to do better. And if there's a situation where we're not able to...
 When we respond to calls and we're limited on the information that we're provided, but we have an anonymous caller, our officers have to operate off of what the capability in our hands are, what the letter of the law is. And oftentimes we always recommend for anyone to see anything to call through on one, but we do encourage for individuals to provide their name and number to help us investigate and further that investigation for a successful prosecution. Next slide, please.
 And as I reach my final slide, I'm very passionate about my job. I've been here long enough. I love to see us transition and evolve into where we are today. And I know that we can evolve into better. We try to get our community to want to be better, and that's what we work with every day. April is Prevention of Animal Cruelty Month.
 And today, I stand here asking each and every one of you to stand with us and stand with Sunny against animal cruelty. I'll try not to get emotional again. Thank you. The things that some of our officers see every day can be difficult. They can respond to a cruelty in progress where we know that CPS needs to intervene immediately. And our officers put on that hat and maintain professionalism.
 to ensure the safety of not only those kids, but the pets. And oftentimes the owners themselves need resources and we work with getting them that help, whether it's some type of mental health help, if it's getting them some water, sometimes we have to run out and get water for them, they don't have any food in the fridge. We always try to leave not only our pets, but our owners better than how we found them.
 Our objective is being cohesive with our community and making El Paso the lead animal welfare city. And in every living thing, there's a desire to live. And if we all work together as a community with our rescue partners, with other shelters, I know together we can continue to make great change. And next slide.
 And that's all I have for today. I do have goodie bags for each and one of you. I am asking, again, part of Go Orange and Stand with Sunny against animal cruelty is helping us make and light El Paso orange. So in your goodie bags, you'll have an orange light bulb. You'll have an orange ribbon. And then you'll have an orange wristband to stand with Sunny. Again, your support is completely appreciated.
 And if you have any questions, I'll be more than happy to answer your questions. We do have a couple people signed up here, but thank you for your presentation.
 And I can feel your passion, really can. And that's really important. When you do something you love like this, you can feel it. So we thank you for what you do, and thank you for doing it with your heart. Thank you. Representative Fuhrer. Thank you, Mayor. I also wanted to state that thank you for your passion and your love for our community.
 The one consistent thing about this animal, all the animal issues, is the passion everybody has for the well-sake of the animals.
 the biggest issue that we have is pet owners that don't take responsibilities. But I wanted to thank you. Would you mind introducing the officers with you? Oh, absolutely. I'm so sorry. Here I have our field shift supervisor, Alberto Ortiz, and then our recently promoted, this Monday, shift supervisor, Yasmin Quesada. They're part of our boots on the ground as well. They've encountered dangerous situations our officers
 do get guns pulled out at them on them and chased with weapons so again with the passion as representative said our owners are very passionate but we also want them to be responsible in in taking care of their pets and their companions thank you again and is there like a height limit to be an officer no without these boots i'm like four or eight
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you, mayor. I basically just wanted to thank you all for the important work you all do. It's incredibly difficult work. But it's so important for the community. You know, in the past, we've had a lot of people who have been in the community for a long time.
 year and change I've gotten to see it extra up close And it really is an immense undertaking that you all carry out every day. So thank you for the work I know we had the the privilege. I'll call it a privilege because we we had a fun day filming some PSAs About adoption about animal cruelty. I think a couple of you appeared in them and those are going out soon so I want the public to understand that I
 animal cruelty, illegal breeding, all of the problems that you encounter every day, they're things that we're taking very seriously. And there's a reason you're here in front of the council today. We want the public to hear all the important work you're doing and know that we have officers out enforcing the laws that we have on the books and that if they are participating in things like illegal breeding or animal cruelty,
 that it will catch up with them and they'll be caught and there will be consequences for that. So again, thank you all for the work that you do and we're happy to continue to support because it's such an important job. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Canales. I'm glad you touched on that real quick. We are boots on the ground, any type of investigation, especially breeding, we do a lot of undercover and swap sweeps, so we're in plain clothes. We're not easily identified that we're out there, but we are out there in the community. Thank you.
 Now we have some public comment. That is correct. We have three members of the public signed up to speak. The first one is Mr. Ron Como. That's French. You have three minutes, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Well, good morning. Good morning, sir. What a surprise I'm here. I've got a few things that I'd like to bring to light. There's, what, 700 and something quarantine violations. So does that mean that these home quarantines that we're doing aren't working?
 And is it the fact that the people feel that they respect and are concerned about the shelters quarantine rules as the shelter is concerned about them? I appreciate the animal control officers, I really do. As we all know, I believe the problem starts at the top. We're discussing animal cruelty cases and things like that
 There was a case that actually I ended up sending you pictures of, a definite cruelty case. Fifteen dogs were abandoned in a home. Animal services answered to the question to the man that owned the property that had feces every two to three inches on the floor, with 15 little dogs running around with green slime in their water bowls.
 was for the owner to allow, or the owner of the property to allow the owner to come in and feed and water the dogs. Those dogs should have been confiscated. Those pictures should have been taken. The person that was the owner of the dogs and the rental of the property should have been prosecuted under animal cruelty laws under Title VII, but instead, for five days, we played games with animal services trying to do their job. And that's why I finally sent the pictures to you.
 funny after that it got taken care of we we we i acknowledge that there's a lot of animal cruelty cases we acknowledge that it needs to be taken care of but when they're brought directly to the director and their answer is to allow them to go back into these properties and feed and water i'm saying we are doing some things but we're not doing enough
 I'm saying that home quarantine does not protect the community. We had one dog that attacked three times before they finally took the dog and euthanized it. We need to protect the community from these strays running the streets, which means animal services needs to do their job completely, not partially, not when they want to, all the time. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. The next person is Barbara Valencia, followed by Ms. Patricia Osman. Ms. Valencia, you have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning, ma'am. First off, I want to say sorry I missed last night's dinner. I just thought it was fun. Happy birthday, Ketha. I know she watches. Okay. What I'm going to address today is the animal quarantine violations. Okay.
 El Paso Animal Services is our local rabies control authority and as such must abide by state department of state or Texas Department of State Health Services requirements or regulations at a minimum. The rules adopted by the Texas Executive Commissioner are the minimum requirements for rabies control in the state of Texas under Health and Safety Code Section 826.
 The Director of Animal Services has stated multiple times, if a dog is loose on the streets but has an owner or a home, the dog is not a stray. And therefore, is not subjected to the state's required in-house quarantine if the dog has a rabies exposure incident. That is wrong. Texas legal definition of a stray means roaming or loose with no physical restraint beyond the premises of an animal's owner or keeper.
 So that means if a dog is running the streets, he lives two blocks over, bites somebody, he is still considered a stray.
 WITH ANY INCIDENT THAT RESULTS IN THE BREAK OF THE SKIN ON A PERSON, REGARDLESS OF VACCINATION STATUS, ANIMALS MUST BE QUARANTINED FOR THE 10 DAYS OBSERVATION PERIOD. THERE ARE TWO TYPES OF QUARANTINE AVAILABLE. THE FIRST ONE IS HOME CONFINEMENT. THE ANIMAL TO BE ABLE TO QUALIFY FOR HOME CONFINEMENT, THE ANIMAL MUST BE CURRENT WITH A RABIES VACCINATION AND THE ANIMAL WAS NOT A STRAY AT THE TIME OF THE INCIDENT. MS. PRYNE, CAN I ASK FOR SOME CLARIFICATION?
 The members are signed up to speak, but it's not related to the item that was just presented by staff. The quarantine violations were on there. No, that was a presentation from animal services, from the animal control officers. What's written on the agenda is? It's a presentation and discussion on animal services and animal. And they issued 788. 8.
 but it was just an update you are signed up to speak on on uh public comment you can address your concerns during public comment but yesterday i was told i could not address this a public comment because it was a direct because it was an agenda item and because the quarantine violations were included
 In the presentation, I had to address it during the presentation. For clarification, we do have you signed up for public comment. I do have something on public comment. Excuse me. Excuse me, ma'am. And I may have not heard of the presentation. If the presentation dealt with quarantines, then it's allowable. I wasn't aware that that was what the presentation was about. It's included in the presentation. It was in the presentation. It was in the presentation. Yes, ma'am.
 In fact, I stand corrected. It states 788 quarantine violations issued. Ms. Valencia, you have 59 seconds left. If we, and I'll go ahead and time it. We start the clock for one minute. Because the time ran out, but I looked up, it was 59. Thank you. I apologize. I, okay. Okay, there are two ways to quarantine. The first one is home confinement. The requirement for a home confinement is the animal must be current with rabies vaccination, and the animal was not astray at the time of the incident. Okay.
 If an animal does not meet the home confinement, then it's called in-house. And quarantine must be either at animal services or at a veterinary clinic operated by a veterinarian. Local ordinances may have more stringent requirements. Otherwise, state minimum standards must be adhered to.
 SO THERE'S SOME QUESTIONS THAT WE NEED ANSWERS TO. HOW MANY OF THE 788 VIOLATIONS ARE A RESULT OF HOME QUARANTINE VIOLATIONS? HOW MANY OF THE ANIMALS ALLOWED TO BE HOME QUARANTINED WERE NOT CURRENT ON RABIES VACCINATION AT THE TIME OF THE INCIDENT?
 How many of the animals allowed to be home quarantined were running at large or loose on the streets at the time of an incident? And what is the total number of animals that were quarantined in 2023? And have a breakdown to the number that were home quarantined versus the in-house quarantined. Your three minutes are up, Ms. Valencia. Thank you. And I apologize for the confusion. The next person is Patricia Osmond. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 So I read through the presentation before, so I know what I'm gonna address. Addresses everything within it. Now, yeah, the issue is top down, and I feel her passion. And it's not about, a lot of times, it's not necessarily about the employees, but I do kind of wonder about the issues. I mean, it showed for animal neglect, yet our director is neglecting every stray in El Paso. And I say that because Westside,
 MR. KENNEDY AND MY DISTRICT, MR. ACEVEDO, WE HAVE HAD SOME ANIMAL MUNILATIONS OUT THERE. OKAY? QUITE FRANKLY, I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE QUALIFICATION IS TO BE A DIRECTOR AND TO FIND OUT, TO BE PLACED IN THIS JOB. I WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT. BECAUSE EVEN IF THERE'S AN INVESTIGATION WITHIN THAT DEPARTMENT.
 It involves a director and that goes throughout El Paso departments What what ends up happening is a director has to then investigate themselves, but I'm wondering how has has the department a
 CITATED THE DIRECTOR HIMSELF FOR ANIMAL NEGLECT BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF STRAYS I I PERSONALLY WOULDN'T FEEL BAD ABOUT IT MS. HOSSMANN THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE DIRECTOR THIS IS ABOUT OKAY BUT THIS IS THE SERVICES THAT HE IS LET'S STAY WITH THE PRESENTATION BUT HE IS THE ONE THAT IS IN CHARGE OF EVERYTHING THAT'S WITHIN THAT PRESENTATION NO MA'AM IT IS IT IS UNDER HIS DIRECTION I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT LET'S STAY WITH THE PRESENTATION AND PART OF THIS STRAY ISSUE OKAY AND I'M GOING TO SAY PART OF IT
 Is it necessarily El Paso's problem or El Paso County? A lot of it has to do with Fort Bliss because Fort Bliss closed their animal services that used to be on Beaumont. In fact, Mr. Cohn, Ron, had no idea that that even existed. I'm old enough to know that it did. All right. So perhaps animal services does need to get together with Fort Bliss, or maybe Fort Bliss needs to have a rule out there that their families cannot have pets because they are dumping them in the city. Okay.
 The stray issue, it is a big issue. Aside from that, in Central, if you get out next door, there have been, animal services have been called numerous times because two dogs have attacked
 NOT ONLY PETS IN SOME OF THE STRAITS, BUT A HOMEOWNER, SMALL PET, SMALL DOG THEY KILLED AND CHASED DOWN THAT ELDERLY MAN. OKAY? SO THIS IS A PUBLIC SAFETY CONCERN THAT IT'S REALLY NOT GETTING ANYTHING DONE. WHEN YOU CALL, WHO KNOWS WHEN THEY SHOW UP. BUT AT LEAST FOUR CALLS WERE MADE IN REGARDS TO THOSE DOGS KILLING AND CHASING DOWN PEOPLE, KILLING PETS AND CHASING DOWN PEOPLE IN CENTRAL.
 That was on next door, and I know they have a presence on next door. Thank you, ma'am. Ms. Osmond, you're three. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you for your comments. That's all the public comment we have, sir. Thank you, and I think we go to public comment. Would you like to go to public comment? Call to the public. The El Paso City Council is the local government body in charge of
 Charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and meetings must be focused on the meeting that charge the City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act public comment is an Accommodation and not a requirement of City Council all persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum That is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigns. Please note that during the call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on the posted
 BE COMMENTED ON THE POSTED AGENDA IN THE FUTURE. WE DO HAVE FIVE MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC SIGNED UP TO SPEAK, SIR. THE FIRST ONE IS ELIZABETH CRAWFORD FOLLOWED BY RON COMO, BARBARA VALENCIA, STEPHEN STRUMMER AND PATRICIA OSMOND. MS. CRAWFORD, HER TOPIC IS PASSOVER AND MOSES RESCUED FROM INFECTIZED. MS. CRAWFORD, ARE YOU ON THE QUEUE?
 Thank you, ma'am. You have three minutes. Thank you, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you so much. In light of Passover being celebrated this month, in light of the abortion issue raging in our nation, in light of what took place recently in Dearborn, Michigan, with the screams of death to America, death to Israel, I would like to speak briefly on Moses. Moses was rescued as a baby.
 and God later took Moses and used him as a rescuer of God's people, Israel. We're told in Scripture that in the New Testament, the book of Hebrews, by faith Moses, when he was born, was his three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. By faith Moses, when he came to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter
 choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Messiah greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them."
 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians trying to do were drowned. Moses was rescued miraculously by God. God used the Egyptian midwives to save Moses' life. God used his parents in a bold act to save him. And God later used Moses as the rescuer of his people, Egypt.
 from the slavery of Egypt. In light of everything that's going on in our nation and in our world, the story of Moses is an amazing account of God's hand over human history and God's hand to rescue babies in that time from infanticide and in many cases in our day, he saved babies from abortion. He's
 at work in spite of the dark days that we live in. Thank you so much, thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next person is Mr. Steven Strumer. His topic is possibilities of Dollar Tree opening on 406 South Oregon at Paisano Mercadito. Dollar Tree has been closed for 22 and a half months and it has a major impact in the downtown area. Mr. Strumer, you have three minutes. This is slight correction. My name is Strumer, I'm sorry.
 Good afternoon City Council. Since May 14 of 22, for 22 and a half months, we have been without a Dollar Tree store in downtown El Paso. Our nearest store is found 1,000 foot south of the corner of North Mesa Street and Sun Bowl Drive. A Dollar Tree store was found at South Stanton Street, one block west of the El Paso County Courthouse building.
 It was by far the most heavily frequented store of all of the locations in El Paso City and County. 98% of the merchandise was sold out by each Sunday afternoon. Every Monday evening at 6 p.m., a vast Dollar Tree truck arrived and the entire staff unloaded and restocked everything. The effects of this store closing have had a severe impact on our Hispanic and Asian businesses.
 We've had to limp and hop to find a Dollar Tree store nearby. In fact, many on both sides of the Rio Grande pray with tears it will reopen. Far back in late summer of last year, I had a face-to-face interview with a Dollar Tree store woman administrator at the Coronado Shopping Center yesterday.
 that we, and I promised we would receive a store at the Paisano Mercado at 406 South Oregon Street to open in January of this year. Here it is, April 9th, and no stores opened at that location. I called Representative Canadez's staff, they marched, I spoke to you two weeks ago, I spoke to Representative Cassandra Hernandez. Would it be possible,
 for the Honorable Canales, for the Mayor's office to pull some strings and call to effectuate some change over this inertia. I even envision the Honorable Mayor to be at a ribbon cutting to open the store. Paisano Mercado was under the auspices, the leadership and vision of the Honorable John Cook and City Council. It no longer has an anchor in the store.
 It's a Hispanic business and it needs it. This is no small issue. It is very tearful. I pray, thank you for your listening to me. Call me, Representative. This is having an impact beyond what you believe. So I just ask you, in closing, thank you for hearing me at this time. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 Next speaker is miss Barbara Valencia. Her topic is animal services. The public has spoken you have three minutes Okay last week there was a video that was put on all the different social media outlets from animal services It basically said be the voice for the voiceless stand with sunny against animal cruelty if you see something say something for all animal related concerns call three one one and
 Well, surprisingly, this is what the community is saying. I've called numerous times and no response. I really wish that the caring was real. These animals need help and we rely on these services that are supposed to care as much if not more than we do. It is truly sad. Let's see. Here's another one. We did call and say something about a neighbor throwing a dog. Nothing was done. Yeah, I just called. Another person said, yeah, I just called yesterday about a dog. No one came.
 Honestly, there seems to be no point in calling this one here I wish I can say they act on complaints, but they don't so much for protecting defenseless animals I unfortunately somebody else says I have fortunately agree with all these comments. I've called to two for neglect and it doesn't get taken seriously What is the point of this post? marketing building of reputation Got a long way to go to make that happen folks. I
 This person says, this is ridiculous. I've called over six times for a neglected dog and they have done nothing. Another person says, nothing gets done. I've called countless times about the same large dog I always see locked up in a small cage every day and the poor dog is still there. It kills me. This person says, will anything be done or is this just a feel-good initiative to stroke some egos while putting people at ease, thinking action is being taken care of?
 This person says, every time I call, they ignore me. They don't take anything seriously. Please actually do something for the animals. Evil is out of control. Okay? And it just goes on and on and on. There are pages and pages of this.
 This is what the taxpayers are saying. They are speaking, but no one seems to be listening to them. The community has no trust in this director and the Department of Animal Services. Something needs to be done, and it needs to be done now. Ms. Valencia, please do not talk about the Animal Services director. Talk about everything else, but those are becoming, every time you come up, it's become personal attacks when you bring him up, and I'm going to stop you 100% of the time every time you bring him up.
 and anyone else that does that i will stop at 100 of the time and you'll run out of time okay how about the community has no trust in the department of animal services as long as you don't bring him up i'm okay thank you okay the community has no trust in the department of animal services something needs to be done and it needs to be done now not tomorrow not next week not next month now the public has spoken now you need to respond thank you
 Thank you, ma'am. Your three minutes are up. Next speaker is Mr. Ron Como. You have three minutes, sir. Well, hello again. So we're going to discuss some failures that are going on here in El Paso. Finder to foster, which we all know. It's a huge problem, but we continue to do this, even though we were told at our first rescue meeting by another rescue that this was a failure. We have missing pets from the shelter. Do they disappear out through the roof? Yes.
 People kidnap them, where do they go? That's three failures. Community can't walk the small dogs safely on the streets of El Paso. We all know that. Every single person in this room knows that that's an issue. Four failures. The retention rate of employees at animal services. We all also know that that's an issue. We're getting ready to open up a second facility, and we don't really have enough people for the first one.
 El Paso Animal Services is and has been the biggest backyard breeder in El Paso history since 2020 when we implemented the HOSS program. You cannot leave unaltered strays running the streets and not expect more strays. I got to be honest with you. I could keep going. We got numerous issues. I'd be more than happy to talk to anyone that wants to listen about what's happening and what needs to be corrected.
 Let's just say it's it's going to take years to clean this mess up. We need to get started not in baby steps We need to start moving along. I would appreciate it if the Somebody could explain to the ASAC committee that open intake is a law on city funded shelters Not something that we do because we've got nothing better to do. We're about to have a city an ASAC meeting on Wednesday We need to stop it
 I'm just I'm tired. I'm really tired guys. You know, I hate coming up here every two weeks I hate telling you what a horrible job it is because every one of you knows anybody that's paid attention to anything It's being said or done on the streets or fit fam or Facebook or anything, you know, we have an issue We need to correct the issue issue starts at the top, you know the old saying about cutting the head off the snake This has gone on too long
 way too long folks can we please correct the issue I appreciate the fact that your new deputy director actually has some shelter experience that's great we need more of it
 Because right now we don't have enough. Thank you. Thank you for your comment, sir The next speaker is miss Patricia Osman followed by miss Lisa Turner and miss Patricia's Osmonds topic is ethics violations and misappropriation solicitation purchasing directors management City leader rubber step stamping if you can please refrain from any personal attacks man. Yeah, okay first I'm gonna say
 In our United States Constitution, we have freedom of speech and we all have freedom of press. The reason it was put in is so that citizens can hold our leaders into account. That means city, local, state, federal, and so forth. And you're right. There's no personal attacks and you're 100% right. But what I'm going to go ahead and remind you all of, again, is it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man or person.
 to enter the kingdom of God. Okay? So when our council rubber stamps solicitations, we get people that just, before it's even done, move to approve.
 Because you know what hey it gives the citizens a an impression that somebody May be doing a back of a backdoor deal kickback What are that's the impression it gives the citizens of El Paso when they watch City Council do that just so you know Okay, what I'm wondering about so no personal attacks management city leaders are met our directors and
 down to the employees. Everybody who has had ethics violations, issues with misappropriation of funds, some of which I have given you all proof of, when people like myself file complaints with HR, and those complaints that include a director is then
 JUST SENT OVER TO THE DIRECTOR TO INVESTIGATE THEMSELVES, WELL, THERE'S SOMETHING PRETTY SHADY GOING ON WITHIN THE SYSTEM. OKAY? SO I KNOW YOU DON'T LIKE THE WORD CORRUPTION, BUT THIS IS THE THING. IF I WAS LOOKING AT A COMPUTER, THIS IS A CORRUPT SYSTEM. SOMETHING IS DEFINITELY WRONG HERE. DOES NEED TO BE FIXED. MAYBE IT NEEDS TO BE FIXED ON AN OUTER LEVEL. WHETHER THAT'S DOJ ON A STATE LEVEL, PAXSON'S OFFICE, DOJ'S OFFICE, DOJ'S OFFICE,
 to do an investigation all the way through an audit within the city. You know how EPI, SDI, what is it? Socorro Independent School District
 was taken over by Texas perhaps you know We've had cities in Texas taken over by the state as well perhaps they need to look into El Paso because there are some clear Issues within the city there's a reason why some people online are stating that it's rats jumping off a ship right now And I'm glad for Changes that are going to be made, but we need to make sure qualified people are in spots educated
 to those qualifications, not just move from within because let's keep the status quo. Nothing has been done to my home. Nothing, although I was approved for that grant, and I'm not the only citizen and senior. Ms. Ausman, thank you for your comments. Your three minutes are up. Mr. Mayor, Ms. Lisa Turner has requested to be removed from the call to the public comment. Come on up, Ms. Turner. No, she's requested to be removed. Oh, you waived it. I'll miss you.
 And that takes us to the introductions, and that would be items 24 through 34. Would you like to continue the meeting or? Yeah, please do the first readings. We have a motion made by Representative Rivera. Seconded by? Representative Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Okay. To approve, and again, that's items 24 through 34. I lost the motion.
 Give me one second. Voting session is open. Representative Salcido, thank you, ma'am. And the item has been approved unanimously. That takes us to item 35, and that is discussion and action
 to sign an agreement for professional services by and between the City of El Paso and Consor Engineers LLC, a Florida USA foreign limited liability company authorized to transact business in Texas for a project known as Project Management Services for the El Paso Public Safety and Fire Department Headquarters and Maintenance
 and Logistics Center project. And this is for an amount not to exceed 3,654,642 cents. Motion approved. Second. And we do have Ms. Lisa Turner signed up to speak for this item. Mayor Pro Tem, can we see the presentation first? I think it makes sense to present it first and then hear the questions. All right, if you wanna see the presentation first, Sam. IT, can you please pull up item 35?
 Thank you Good afternoon mayor Pro Tem and council Yvette Hernandez capital improvement department for today's item it is the solicitation for project management services this is for the El Paso public safety and fire department headquarters and maintenance and Logistics Center project also known as the public safety complex
 this project is located out in district 4 but we do want to report this as all districts because it provides the training for both fire and police the contract value for these project management services is 3 million 654 thousand 641 and 4 and 62 cents this will be funded through the 2019 public safety one and so these
 Project management services are in support of the public safety complex, which is estimated right now at 78 million. So to put that in context, the investment to provide a quality facility to both our fire and PD is 4% of the estimated cost. And so just looking at what we have scheduled for this facility,
 It's really small, but that's purposeful. So that you can see there is a lot of work that is programmed for this safety complex. We're looking at developing over 50 plus acres. Right now we're slated to have approximately 10 buildings,
 This will also house the fire headquarters and then the trading academy, like I made mention for police and fire. And just some of the specialty items that we see in the training are the indoor shooting range, Hogan's Alley obstacle courses, and also the driving emergency vehicle operator course.
 So looking at the scope of work, we want to make sure that this firm is engaged from the beginning. So looking at the planning and design phase, being a representative for both design and construction, making sure that we're adhering to quality control, and then we know that we have a lot of parts moving. We have 10 facilities located in one parcel. So looking at project schedules, budget analysis, management, and really reviewing the cost estimates from the design-build team.
 Services during the construction phase to serve as the owner's representative for construction management. This would be looking at some of the documentation that I have listed here. So reviewing submittals, reviews, and logs. Just really ensuring that we have the submittals in before the contractor starts that work and they're reviewed and approved. Looking at closeout procedures, contract compliance, and construction contract requirements.
 Working with the city staff to negotiate any potential change orders, estimating what the cost of work is, providing status reports.
 And really we want to ensure once we finish the development and we turn it over to police and fire that they have all the necessary documentations, the as-built drawings. This basically just means we have the design. Sometimes out on the field there's some variations. We want to make sure that we record that and that they have true existing conditions. Our O&M manuals so that they're aware of,
 any parts that they might need. They can really provide that proactive maintenance and warranties for all the equipment that is installed. Also, we'll be looking at commissioning requirements, also providing financial report outs.
 During inspections, which is the bulk of the cost, is we will have up to one to three individuals that will be out on site. So as soon as we break ground to make sure that we have the inspections needed. And so that will be daily reports, making sure quantity oversight, observation reports. We want to make sure that if there are any non-compliance issues, they're reported and we have the
 team correct that construction that we're really adhering to the drawings and specifications also working with traffic control plans we will be working with uh texta as well and then also our public utilities this is undeveloped land so we're bringing in water gas and also electrical
 As I made mention, our commissioning services, that they're there through the design phase, but also the documentation when we have the start-up of the building. So we really are turning over an energy efficient building to our PD and fire.
 So this request for qualifications, this was advertised in September of 2023. We had three firms that submitted bids. They were all local offices. And so we're asking council to recommend award to Consor Engineers, who has worked with the city on previous projects. They have 19 years here with a local office.
 In their proposal, they identified 20 staff members that will be dedicated to this project. And I believe that this is a good investment to what we're doing out in the Northeast for both our fire and PD. And it will really complement the services that the city of El Paso will provide in the oversight of this construction. Thank you, any questions? Representative Hernandez.
 I'm happy to support this today. The only question I had is if you could provide the overall 2019 fire and police bond and where we're at with the projects that we had promised and then the redirection of some of those funds. So it's been some time since revisited, but I am starting to get questions as we're starting to roll these purchase agreements.
 forward because I cannot because I know we the only thing I remember is that we were over a hundred million dollars from what we had initially anticipated and then I
 if we could just have the status update on that, please. Yes, thank you, Representative Hernandez. That's a very timely comment, and I will be back to council with our mid-year report. And so not only just looking at public safety, I know there's been questions also about the community progress bond, so I'm gonna provide a comprehensive report of where we're at with our portfolio. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Bryan, we have a public comment. Yes, sir, we have Ms. Turner that signed up to speak. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. I'm against this, and I'll tell you why.
 This is one, a foreign-owned Florida corporation. The state of Florida presently is engaged in discrimination against active-duty military and their families, veterans and their families, and women. So the fact that you would choose to do business with such a corporation from that state is beyond me. You claim to be the capital, the veterans' capital of the United States.
 and yet you will do business with a corporation from a state that actually discriminates against active duty and veterans. So explain to me where your principles are. Explain to me what principles does this city council operate on? What are your morals? Because right now people are scared to go to Florida because they will be arrested. If I try to use a public restroom
 Florida I will be arrested and jailed it's against the law for me to use a public restroom in Georgia the only restroom I excuse me not Georgia but Florida Georgia's working on the same law the only restroom I could use would be on a military base you this is who you're doing business with you send your money it goes to that corporation you support that corporation you're supporting the state of Florida and what you're telling
 active duty service members, their families, veterans and their families, is that you don't care if they're discriminated against in another state. You won't take a position. You'll just spend this money. So I'm going to ask you to deny this. And I have no idea why our procurement specialists don't look any further. I don't even know what foreign country this entity is from. So I have questions. And I have...
 discussed that my city would actually want to do business with people like this thank you miss bryan yes sir there was a motion made by representative fiero seconded by representative salsido to approve item 35 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously that brings us to item 36
 And this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from R3 residential to C3 commercial. This is south of Vista del Sol Drive and west of Joe Battle Boulevard. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 36. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item 37.
 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale with the Board of Trustees of the El Paso Independent School District for the purchase of approximately 13 acres located at 7024 Cielo Vista Drive, El Paso, Texas. Move to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve item 37. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 39, and this is discussion and action approving a resolution that the City Council of the City of El Paso supports the tenets of the Supply El Paso Procurement Playbook. Move to approve. Representative Canales, are you on or no? We do have public comment on this item. Okay, yeah, Representative Canales would like to see the presentation. Okay, if I take him, please bring up item 39.
 Again, I know I said this yesterday, but I do want to repeat myself because I really believe y'all did an incredible job At that Expo and had over 2,000 people show up over 225 participants and
 the quality of the exhibits, and it really wasn't people competing. It was a lot of businesses and people that do business in El Paso kind of working together to see how they can better their business or help someone else. And you had a great keynote speaker, Walter Bond.
 So you guys really knocked it out of the park. I know that back in 2014, I was here for the first one. So I saw, you know, the first year and how it was to today in 2024. You guys have really come a long way.
 I know that I couldn't and then the breakout when we talked about the playbook and had all the you know, they the players in there whether it was the Hispanic chamber and the other companies EPCC and everybody they want to talk about how we're gonna work together was very very impressive So I want to commend you and your team for for doing that and putting that together because it'll go a long way So thank you for that. Thank you mayor. Thank you very much. And thank you for doing the opening remarks. I
 at that session as well. And then thank you all for those of you who are able to attend. We really appreciate your support, both on Tuesday and Wednesday for the Expo last week. Nicole Cody, Managing Director. The presentation we have here today is regarding Supply El Paso. And so what does that look like? So first,
 I'm gonna cover the requested action today as we're asking council to approve a resolution that supports the tenants of the El Paso, Supply El Paso procurement playbook, and I'll have some highlights of that playbook here, and it is part of the attachments that are with this agenda item, as well as including the creation of a Supply El Paso board, and we'll talk a little bit more about what that means.
 So Supply El Paso Playbook was, and you'll see the partners on the next slide, really looking at unlocking the procurement economy for local businesses. And so it's really about making market-making initiatives to help local businesses be able to compete for contracts and grow, and in an area of governmental entities.
 So here you'll see the research team that conducted this playbook and the study. It was from Drexel University in support of the Aspen Institute and the funder of the Rockefeller Foundation. You'll see the partners here, and we do have here in the audience today the El Paso Chamber was able to make it today, but we also were working with, as the mayor had mentioned, the El Paso Hispanic Chamber. We have, of course, a contract. I'm going to say it wrong because I'll...
 because all of a sudden my brain stopped the contract opportunity center sorry the sbdc as well as our utilities and our community college of course this shows the timeline of this project so we went from february of 2023 and then it the final product was presented in january of 24. they did identify three major goals they were really looking at the procurement landscape here in el paso as well as what do we have available for ready to scale framework what is it
 as far as industry, what are we looking at, and what strategies can we help El Paso be successful? And so here in the procurement playbook, this is a direct slide, you'll see that we're looking at the large procurement economy. So what is thriving, what do we see, where are the dollars being spent? In addition to that, what are those barriers to the firm participation and growth? And so they highlight three areas here that the procurement economy,
 procurement landscape or environment is fragmented across governmental levels. And so what does that mean? That just means that we each have our own way of requesting bids and proposals from vendors. And so what can we do in order to really have an effect by making it easier for businesses to be able to do business with the City of El Paso, as well as other governmental agencies. And then also it talks about low capacity and procurement and just
 any of the struggles or challenges that we've seen in the procurement area, as well as the centralized platform that would assist buyers and suppliers in being able to easily submit bids for governmental agencies. And so their recommendation is to create a Procurement Marketplace Council. It's located on that right side of the slide. And so really what they're looking at and what they're recommending is
 is that we, it would be top buyers, chambers of commerce, our key stakeholders, and then of course the procurement professionals working together to be able to identify opportunities to support these organizations and make them successful. So in addition to that, as part of the procurement playbook, we really looked at expanding the opportunity, expanding the local share of direct spending as it requires
 a certain focus on ready to scale firms. And so when we look at this slide in particular, what's great is I wanted to touch on the presentation that you all received yesterday. And so in that presentation, the professor, Dr. Shunduri, also had a slide about talking about the different levels and the different size of firms that need to be part
 of the premier destination of advanced manufacturing for making El Paso the premier destination for advanced manufacturing. And so this speaks to this, this speaks to the local business opportunities that we have here in El Paso and identifying those suppliers, those that are ready to scale up and identifying also their barriers that they have to being able to scale up.
 So the next item that was covered as part of this is a way forward in how this more procurement marketplace council can assist in addressing these issues along with identifying spending. And so we're seeing those federal grants come in and they touched on it on yesterday as well, but also what can we do as a collective body in order to prioritize and truly attack the barriers that our local businesses see in doing business with government.
 Here you'll see two initiatives where we're focusing our efforts in areas of the Defense Procurement Advanced Initiative, also looking at green supply chain initiatives, and then of course advanced manufacturing as was mentioned yesterday. This is the timeline that we're really looking at over the next 90 days.
 180 days and then over where will we be in the next year? And so the mayor mentioned the meeting last week on April 3rd was really that first step. We were able to bring stakeholders together that are really focused on El Paso and focused on improving the business environment for our businesses here in El Paso.
 And so in summary, we really believe through the playbook and also the efforts of our stakeholders in our community working together that we can be that national model to foster local enterprise growth through effective procurement. And that's what we're looking at and also identifying those key sectors or those key industries such as defense, energy and manufacturing that can really help us have an effect, a
 laser focused impact in those areas. And then as we continue to see unprecedented federal investments, that just provides those opportunities with the federal granting opportunities and then the creation of the Supply El Paso board.
 So while this playbook really brought all of the community together and was helped and facilitated by, of course, Drexel University and Aspen Institute, we want to make sure that it reflects El Paso. It's about El Paso for El Paso. And so that being said, we do recommend that we change the board or the council name to supply El Paso board.
 and that we continue to identify and work towards those three core issues and really bring our resources, each of the resources that all of the different stakeholders and partners can bring to the table in order to make this possible. And so again, this is just a request from both the purchasing and strategic sourcing department and economic development as well as our partners that are here today to approve this resolution.
 And then these are the next steps that we have. We are hopefully planning on meeting in May again, and we will have set board members as well as create an action plan, and we'll be bringing that back to council. Motion to approve. Second. Do we have a public comment? Yes, we do, Mayor. We have Ms. Osman that signed up to speak, and we did already have a motion from Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Fierro. Good afternoon, Mayor. You have three minutes.
 The fact that there's always, it seems to be a pattern that there's motions to approve before you even check to see if there's public comment to get a full scope of what the citizens might feel is very interesting. But we won't take a vote until after you speak, ma'am. You know what? They would have done it anyway. I've seen it happen. So my question, I have a few. One, purchasing and procurement, they do need a lot of changes because there are a lot of issues.
 For example, not all of the bids and procurement are put on IonWave for full transparency. They need to be. The noncompetitive, it seems as though there has been a lot of rubber stamping about the noncompetitive solicitations that get approved. I understand they bring it to you, but it's your all's faces that vote on it and are held to account by the citizens.
 I'D LIKE TO FIND OUT, AND MY QUESTION IS, IS THERE GOING TO BE, YOU'RE GOING TO DO THESE CHANGES, BUT ARE THERE GOING TO BE CHANGES IN BIDDER REQUIREMENTS SO THAT EMPLOYEES ARE NOT BIDDING IN, THERE'S NOT PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT ISSUES WITH EMPLOYEES OF THE CITY OF EL PASO BIDDING ON THEIR OWN DEPARTMENT BIDS? WHAT IS THAT?
 type of implementation going to be because right now it's it's currently happening in this body has actually approved some of those solicitations so they bring it up to you guys y'all really don't check that's I understand that's their job but then you rubber stamp and you approve these solicitations um local entities I'm all for that the thing is is that there is a lot
 of issues within the purchasing and procurement department. There's a huge lack of transparency. And it gives, by the evidence that I currently have, misappropriation of funds, ethics violations,
 Okay, hold on. These are things that need to be placed into, if you're doing it on this agenda and doing- You need to listen to me for a second. Yeah. This is not what this is about. That was what you just talked, okay, hold on a second. It's procurement procedures. Ms. Osmond, please. Part of these are procedures that need to be implemented. I'm going to ask you not to return if you continue this because this item is about procurement process. Exactly. This is not about-
 Yes, procurement processes and procedures that you all are being asked to approve. Can you stop your clock for a minute, Ms. Ostman? This is not about corruption. You keep going back to corruption since the day you showed up here. This is not about that. This is about procurement processes. This is about helping businesses learn how to get federal grants, how to get federal jobs, how to get state jobs. This has nothing to do with...
 This is helping the businesses work together. I mean, you keep coming back and you keep telling us the same thing about corruption and about embezzlement and about whatever, and it's not about that. This is, the item on the agenda was an item to help businesses work together. There's 225 vendors.
 that came together. FEMA was here, the state was here, the schools were here. Everybody was here to help these businesses to be able to grow. We're about 85% small business in El Paso and our job is to help them grow, but not only within the city, we're talking about city business, but we're talking about federal government, state and county. So that's what this was about. So you keep coming back with the same thing, but this is not what this was about.
 You just talked about public comment on that. These are amending procurement procedures, correct? Pardon me? This is about amending procedures with the procurement. No, ma'am. That's not what it's about. That's what I was trying to tell you. Please. Go ahead. Do you want to explain? Okay. That's not what it was about. That's what I was trying to tell you. So even if these small businesses are employees of the city of El Paso. Right. So that's not what it's about, though. Okay. Come on up. Yes, ma'am.
 Yes sir, so just to clarify, so this item, and I'll go back to that slide, if IT can please bring up the item, is to request council action in order to approve the tenants of, you were good, of Supply El Paso?
 as well as the support of a creation of the Supply El Paso Board, which, as you said, Mayor, is bringing together the community to help support small business to be able to grow and submit proposals for governmental agencies. It's not the city, it's the community. It's everybody together. It really wasn't the city. We facilitated to be able to work together with everybody. That's all it was about. Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you. Pardon me? Anyway, Ms. Paine, do we have any other questions?
 Ms. Modis is here. Do you want to speak? Come on up, Ms. Modis. And thank you for being there also.
 Mayor and City Council, thank you so much, Mayor. I just want to echo everything that Ms. Cody mentioned. This is for the community. Will you tell us who you're with, please? Thank you, sir. Yes, Lupe Mares. I'm with the El Paso Chamber of Commerce Foundation, and I am here in support of the procurement playbook. We've worked on it for many years. It's been long coming.
 It is to support small business and it is a community effort. It is a village, it takes a village to help a community and it's all of us coming together to support small business. I saw firsthand what they went through during the pandemic
 thank you to the city for all the grant money they provided to these small businesses i was one of those that administered some of those funding that those funds through live fund and they need a lot of support and this is one way through the procurement playbook and the
 the procurement is to help support these businesses scale up there's a lot of businesses that are ready to get to that point but don't know how and so i am confident that we will be able to support these businesses so thank you very much thank you ma'am anyone else miss prime no sir thank you and with that we do have a motion in a second yes sir there was a motion made by representative hernandez seconded by representative fiero to approve item 39 on that motion call for the vote
 the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative at none this not present we've reached the end of the agenda wait before we do that mr. own will you come up and address this please yeah I know you work for the city manager but I thought I'd give you a directive
 No, I just want to thank you for the years you've put in with the city. I know that we talked about it, and it's always tough to leave somewhere you like and you love, and you've done a lot of great work here. And I wanted to give you the opportunity, of course, to address council and the community that you've done a lot of work for, and personally thank you for what you've done.
 Thank you mayor, it's been an absolute honor and pleasure the time that I've spent here we we've been here for a little over nine years and
 we were lucky enough i came with adult kids that didn't come with me but there were some really beautiful things that happened my son who was active duty army was actually stationed at fort bliss for a period of time while we were here which was a surprise that we didn't anticipate during covid there was a lot of tragedy and terrible things that happened but one of the things we were able to do was our younger son who was living in new york was able to come and live with us here
 in El Paso for a period of time and telecommute, which was a gift that was unanticipated. We have adopted two chihuahuas from animal services who we would have never brought into our lives if we had not been here in El Paso. These are some personal things that I will tell you that I will be taking with me in memories.
 Being a part of this community has been an incredibly unique experience that I will always carry near and dear to my heart. I will never be able to eat food from this region anywhere else.
 I've been you know, I've been spoiled in that regard. I know better now so and no one invites us out to eat Food from this region anywhere else because this is where we need to do that I have had so many great wonderful beautiful experiences here And I I really hope that the mark that I have left has been indelible. I do believe that
 that I have, I hope that you will all agree, left it better than I found it. I've worked very hard to be a part of this community while I've been here and I appreciate all of the support. This is an incredible team of people. The elected officials that we have here are such gifts. The leadership that you have provided over the years. Some of you have been on council for a very long time. Mayor, you came back and thank you for your second term. It's been a pleasure to serve with you twice.
 And I just wish you all the very very best the world is a very small place. So we will not be saying goodbye We will be saying we will see you again in the future. So thank you all very much Thinking good luck in your new venture. Thank you. And now with that I will take a motion There's a motion in a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor. Aye
 Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, April 9th, 2024 is adjourned at 1255 p.m. Thank you, council.